According to the calculation of the 1st as of 01.09.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.0 billion tenge.
The preparatory stage of the transition to 12-year education draws attention to the implementation of priority areas, section 7 of the National Plan is an increase in human capital.
in particular, to date, 1884 km of Western Europe-Western China roads have been fully completed, traffic on the Shymkent-Russian border section, as well as in the Zhambyl region, is completely open.
He became the world champion in 1981, the silver medalist of the world cup in 1982, the European championship in 1980, the champion of the USSR in 1975 and 1980, the silver medalist of the USSR championship in 1978, 1979, the bronze medalist in 1973, 1977, the champion of the Spartakiad of the Peoples of the USSR in 1975, the honored master of sports of the USSR.
In addition, heat covered more than 250 residential buildings out of 327 houses in the settlement.
in the new work, the viewer gets acquainted with valuable data on knowledge, spending education, which he received after learning about a new aspect of conscience.
Interested persons of the EAEU and third countries can send comments and proposals to the commission.
Another 1053 specialists were awarded badges "Excellent health care," diplomas and letters of thanks.
On behalf of veterans, the Chairman of the Council of Veterans of the Internal Affairs Bodies expressed gratitude and gratitude for the respect paid.
participants in the round table, having familiarized themselves with the basic idea of ​ ​ open data, reported on what data their institutions are in great demand among the population.
sectoral agreements have been concluded with the interest that forward-looking relationships will focus on visa cooperation and science and high technology.
As a result of 13 years of construction work and transport and technological binding of processing capacities of southern Kazakhstan and West Siberian oil production facilities, the first gasoline on the schmuse was received in early 1985.
The construction of a bridge 1300 meters long is inexpensive today.
in order to fulfill the tasks of sabotage defense against ships, air defense, anti-submarine, anti-submarine defense.
at the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared and approved the procedure for subsidizing procurement organizations on value added tax.
It is noted that for the first time in the history of the system of technical and professional education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, college students of the country got the opportunity to take part in the international technical competition, the worldskills championship, which was held from August 11 to 16 in Sao Paulo (Brazil).
at the same time, no additional commission is charged when issuing the loan and the repayment schedule can be set by agricultural producers at a time convenient for them.
today's forum is a continuation of all events, it is a way of implementing investment projects in Kazakhstan together with China.
several combat training exercises are recommended, in particular, obstacle lines, combined arms defensive complex, knee throwing, fire exercises.
According to the agreement between the Governor's Office of the region and the social and entrepreneurial corporation Baikonur and the European Development Reconstruction Bank, a total of 120 buses will be imported into the region this year.
according to the results of the competition, i place - the area of ​ ​ Zarina Khautiev, ii place - the city of Kokshetau, iii place - the area of ​ ​ Yevgeny Khomich Burabai.
someone left in search of a better life, someone went into business.
last year, growth was 19%.
as for the third reform, the rules of the "yellow pages" and fairness, according to the vice minister, mean the difference between the state and the private sector.
the second - today in Kazakhstan it is difficult to marry after 25 years.
they are candidates for the construction of a nuclear power plant, which is one of the most important strategic goals in the mining industry.
the main purpose of these measures is to warn drivers, which leads to accidents due to improper speed selection.
All those who spoke at the meeting, and those who gave us peace in their lives, determined the importance of this matter so that his names would not be forgotten.
The Council of Mothers invites the Ministries of Education and Science, Health and Social Development to support social projects that contribute to the professional development of women and their participation in family business.
Note that the entrepreneur improved his knowledge in the framework of the project "Business Ties."
The conference will be attended by Deputy Director of the Department of Medical Care Organization Aigul Tastanova and a number of industry specialists.
opening the session, acting Chairman of the Aktobe Regional Court noted that the 16th step of the National Plan to facilitate citizens' access to justice provides for the optimization of the stages of the judicial system, the transition from a five-stage judicial system to a three-stage justice system.
according to the methodology, the entire component is calculated under equal conditions.
N.Nazarbayev was the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Kazakhstan at 40 years old, "he said.
equity - 84.6 billion tenge.
Aimbetov A., if possible, did not hide the fact that he wanted to go into space several times as part of the expedition.
According to him, despite the general decrease in industrial volumes, there is an increase in some production sectors.
therefore, the focus should be on targeted and energy components of finished goods prices.
More than 500 teenagers performed on stage.
The meeting considered the implementation of the instructions of the head of state on the modernization of correctional institutions in order to switch to holding prisoners in cells and employment as part of the implementation of "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing 5 institutional reforms.
By 2020, we plan to increase the share of innovative active enterprises to 20%, that is, 2 times.
the collection was published in a circulation of 7,000 copies.
Of these, 11 preschool institutions for 1298 places were opened in 2014 (8 kindergartens 983 places, 3 mini-centers for 315 places), and this year in the region. a kindergarten with 100 seats has been opened.
Within the framework of the general conference, participants will pay special attention to the issues of promising development of nuclear energy, strengthening international cooperation in the field of nuclear and radiation safety, the peaceful use and use of nuclear energy, nuclear technology, strengthening technical cooperation, efficiency and impact of safeguards.
its capacity will be 5.5 thousand cubic meters. l.
Athletes who won gold medals in double-double received 15 thousand dollars, bronze prizes - 5 thousand dollars.
After 30 days of Ramadan, people wish each other well.
In total, about 300 people took part in the play.
s. Wallander noted the importance of the working visit of the Kazakh delegation.
To date, Kazneftegaz has 324 gas stations, of which 143 stations have been transferred to private ownership.
According to the final statements of the ministers of the member countries of the international organization, further steps in this direction have been clarified.
I am grateful that my proposal was accepted, "said P. Poroshenko.
this needs to be streamlined, because tomorrow all this can cause problems in the city.
settlements between railway administrations for 9 months of the current year; on the tariff policy of railways on international routes in 2016;
the opening of a fire station to protect remote settlements from fires is an important event for the Altynsarin district.
At the end of the meeting, the Ministers of Health signed a protocol stating that in order to protect the health of the population, health reform will be carried out, experience and best practices in the field of legislation in this area will be exchanged.
and the third set of amendments is aimed at the transition to results-based public administration in the framework of standardized or minimum procedures for evaluation and monitoring control, and improving the activities of the authorized body on statistics.
According to him, in this regard, directors of countries of the world can send us their work on this topic.
During the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 194 facilities were subject to privatization.
for example, every 10 days delay in wheat harvesting results in a loss of 10% of the crop.
A 9-storey 3 entrances with a total area of 6278.0 square meters were built in the amount of 770.0 million tenge.
from the point of view of architecture and design, as well as technologies used in creating an object. sphere will be the main building .
why was he soon able to attract supporters from many countries of the world?
"Energy of the Future" of the Expo-2017 exhibition in Astana, as well as the appointment of the national coordinator (commissioner) of Germany to the upcoming exhibition.
the implementation of the programs of the first five-year plan of industrialization (uiidmb) served as an impetus to the beginning of structural transformations of the national economy and became one of the relevant drivers of growth of most indicators of the country and the cessation of de facto industrialization.
first passed the regional championship.
this exhibition presents all types of goods produced in the country.
The table below summarizes the results of the assessment:
According to the press service of the region, as part of the conference, a review of the exhibition of textbooks by Abay Kunanbayev was held, and a poetry competition among young poets of the region was announced.
For entrepreneurs of priority sectors, the Development Fund subsidizes 7%, and for the manufacturing industry - 10% of the total rate of 14% on loans up to 4.5 billion tenge.
they can automatically maintain a temperature of 20-20 degrees at 50-50 degrees outside.
The role of trade unions has been expanded to protect the rights and interests of workers, including taking into account the opportunities provided for in the recently adopted Trade Unions Act.
In this regard, the Polish delegation visited Aktobe region to get acquainted with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of this country.
highly qualified specialists and employees participate in the production process.
this active work will be carried out together with the management of Astana Convention Bureau, created under the akimat, "- said R. Asanbaev.
now, when filing an offense in administrative cases, the telephone numbers of the parties are indicated in the coupon.
several energy sources will be used in the construction of the facility.
Aliyev citizen
Aliyev citizen
here you can use your natural humidity.	no watering .	0,10
Also, a number of education specialists solemnly presented diplomas and jubilee medals on the eve of their celebration.	the competition was held on august 11-16 in sao -paulo ( brazil ) .	0,10
another goal is the implementation of a large-scale Internet project "Encyclopedia of Kazakhstan, providing detailed information about Kazakhstan to any citizen and tourists abroad."
Kazakh farmers engaged in reproductive animal husbandry, agribusinesses of near and far abroad, as well as Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov showed interest in the event.
the organization can help in obtaining housing under the state rental program, if it loses its work, the allowance will be paid. " Lviv.
At the meeting, the people's representatives discussed a number of laws adopted in parliament.
according to the results of this race, servicemen of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan won first place among all.
This forum is still taking place in a number of cities.
Chairman of the Board of JSC "Regional Center of Public-Private Partnership of East Kazakhstan Region" Shakarim Bukhtugutov reported on the progress of the full inspection of each of the projects.
It is a great honor for us to meet our warrior friends from the CIS countries, to share their knowledge and experience, to feel the spirit of unity and brotherhood.	the palace of peace and accord hosted a solemn awarding ceremony .	0,11
but most of them do not know that social surveys play a large role.	public polls play a great role .	0,11
it is aimed mainly at supporting enterprises (large, medium, small) through the development of Kazakh content, ensuring the loading of domestic enterprises and other specific measures.	the center will focus on a comprehensive plan for energy-saving in 2015-2020 years .	0,11
According to him, within the framework of this program, the government introduces a new tool in the form of a special reserve.	he said that it is a special reserve fund .	0,11
The Chairman of the Supreme Court noted that the results of the administration of justice in the republic over the past half year indicate the stability of quality indicators and the preservation of the time frame for the consideration of the case.	the judge of the supreme court emphasized that the results of the justice show stable quality .	0,11
the expedition route started from the capital, covers the southern and central regions of the country, in particular, Akmola, North Kazakhstan, Kostanay, Karaganda and Zhambyl regions.	the result of the work will be a three-volume book with comments from participants .	0,11
astana-duathlon 2015 "in three age categories: from 16 to 35, from 36 to 50 and over 51 years old.
this reflects the importance of the impact of climate change on natural resource capital, which is aimed at global economic growth.
In accordance with the country's legislation, citizens of states for which a visa-free regime has been introduced who have crossed the border of Kazakhstan will be subject to restrictions on movement, missionary activities or other paid work.
As a result, 12 thousand jobs were created.
The 2014 report of the United Nations Narcotics Control Board states that the total number of drug users is increasing in line with the growth of the world population.
in that regard, the entire State must show will and join forces against a common threat.
Also, the protesters distributed explanatory booklets to drivers.
Honored Artist of Kazakhstan prepared felina polonaise from the opera Minion.
for example, on social projects, legislation, industry.
Vice Minister of Finance Ardak Tengebayev will take part in it
33,402 applications for the legalization of real estate totaling 316.0 billion tenge were received by the commission under local executive bodies on the legalization of property in Kazakhstan.
Of these, 130 projects reached full production capacity in the first half of 2015.
The Vice Minister also noted that the draft code simplified measures for employers to hire, transfer personnel, dismiss an employee, determine working conditions and pay for them.
the purpose of the fund is to support the initiative of legal entities.
human rights and freedoms are recorded by each of themselves, they are recognized as absolute, no one can distinguish them, the content and application of laws and other regulatory legal acts are determined in this regard.
in addition, the head of state visited the site where the shooting of the film with the original name "Star of Odd Addition," which tells about the appearance of independent Kazakhstan, took place.
The Fund of Kazakhstan has more than 860 thousand publications.
For the period from 2013 to April 2017, 4,145,535.4 thousand tenge were covered by control and violations were revealed for a total amount of 1,693,143.34 thousand tenge, which amounted to 40.8% of the amount of covered funds, which: financial violations in the amount of 1,343,719.54 thousand tenge; revealed violations in monitoring compliance with rules, conditions and procedures in the amount of 349,423,8 thousand tenge, the report said.
From 2011 to 2015, UNICEF collaborated with Shko akimat, and the agreement will be continued.
It is worth noting that all these goods increase the export potential of the country and are supplied to foreign markets.
The business nature of the exhibition consisted of various seminars, round tables and presentation ceremonies aimed at discussing issues of trade and economic significance of the Aktobe and Orenburg regions.
Participants of the session of the Interstate Council on Geodesy, Cartography, Cadastre and Remote Sensing of the Lands of the CIS Member States consider the organization of advanced training and retraining of representatives of 3 cartographic and geodesic services at the scientific and educational center at the Moscow State University of Geodesy and Cartography relevant.
As part of the work of balashak job fair, a networkingsession was held, in which the fair participants took part. Rector of Pavlodar State University named after Toraigyrov, a graduate of the Bolashak program met with the Orsariev and shared his personal success story.
Do not send a Twitter broadcast on the site.
this is also accompanied by a violation of the rights of the child, since one of the parents feels not participating in the child's upbringing, nutrition, education.
During its existence, the center established close relations with the city hall of Rosario.
Now children who arrived in the capital from different regions of Kazakhstan with their parents are undergoing vocational and psychological selection.
On an 11-kilometer run, a shepherd from the Zhambyl region did not cover the shepherd in front of the sheepskin coat.
The national team took part in the championship thanks to the support of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the national operator of the Professional holding.
According to him, one of the main reasons for the issuance of illegal judicial acts is the misinterpretation of material and procedural rules by representatives of the courts, inconsistency with the requirements of work to form a common judicial practice in the regions.
this will increase revenues to the budget.
At the meeting, experts emphasized the main indicators of the feasibility study of the project.
this seminar is part of the road map.	another point for interaction was the joining of the academy of public administration to the global oecd network of management schools in july .	0,14
According to Gulshara Abdykalikova, the main focus will be on attracting the most gifted youth to the quality of the selection of fellows and increasing research potential in priority areas of the development of the national economy. nowadays they work successfully in various sectors of the national economy .
there is no similar installation in Kazakhstan.
22 regulations on the elimination of violations of land legislation.
It is noted that 19 schools - Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Chemical and Biological Direction in Almaty - were built for 960 students.
at the same time, minimum social standards ensure every citizen freedom of work, working conditions that meet safety and hygiene requirements, compensation for work without any discrimination, "said the Minister of Health and Social Development.
of which - 19.1 thousand hectares of sown area.
our team took fifth place in the overall standings, leaving behind the Georgian, Turkish, Polish teams.
now they will be able to serve coworking offices.
In it, civil servants pass presidential tests on summer types of tests, such as running, jumping.
Within the framework of the forum, the best public organizations and youth of the region, who participated in the implementation of the state youth policy, were awarded letters of thanks from the akim of the region.
Report of Senator of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aytimova on compliance with the terms of resolution 1325 highly appreciated by eku members
It is noted that representatives of large domestic printing houses were invited to an emergency meeting in Shymkent, with whom agreements were concluded for the publication of missing textbooks.
And someone says it's 69-70 kilometers.
The action was held at 1444-1457 km from the very "Yekaterinburg-Almaty" part of the Karaganda-temirtau highway.
Akhmetov also noted that among the important roads, the Zyryanov highway should be repaired - with a growth from an axial transition to a dead end.
today, in some areas, we are stopping Russia itself.
In accordance with the Act of 30 June 2014 "On amnesty for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, oralmans and persons with a residence permit in connection with the legalization of their property," a procedure for the legalization of property objects for which rights are not registered in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been carried out in the city since 1 September 2014.
including English, Tatar, Azerbaijani, Korean, Uighur, German, Ukrainian, Uzbek, Dungan.
all officers pass it.
Overall, the exercise concludes with the monitoring of operational teams' actions.
The establishment of new clinical bases and university clinics is carried out in partnership with leading international medical universities and organizations.
The purpose of the Young Judges' Councils is to ensure that the work of the courts meets global standards and that laws are implemented in a quality manner in the protection of citizens' rights.	the purpose is to correspond to global standards , high-quality laws , to protect the rights of citizens .	0,15
Two sections were shown in English.	the second - contribution of kipchak and other tribes to trade relations , cultural exchange and diplomatic relations on the silk road .	0,15
the meeting is informational.	the meeting was informational , the students were told about the exchange programs and opportunities for cooperation with universities in the united states .	0,15
after modernization, aircraft a-320-200, a-310-300, boeing-767-200/300, boeing-757-200/300 can land.	full reconstruction is to be completed in 2016 .	0,15
it is worth noting that the construction of the plant was initiated according to the head of state that gold ores should be processed at state refineries. "
Having found the shortcomings of entrepreneurs and immediately in their regard, the policy of initiating criminal or administrative cases will be transferred to another level, for example, warning.
the theme of the upcoming forum "Cooperation in the field of the agro-industrial complex and ensuring food security."
The trip to the native land of Abay began with a visit to the left-wing radical complex, where guests visited the third largest mosque of Kazakhstan "Caliph Altai," a museum within the open sky, an ethnoaul, and a new regional theater.
the extension of the time of registration participants for bidding ends at 2 hours before bidding, previously it was 72 hours.
If we do not have a phone number on the Internet, then you can write in Russian mediatr.kz and contact us.	people solve the problems of alimony .	0,16
In addition, within the framework of education and science, specialists from the two regions will conduct joint innovative research in the scientific and technical direction.	also , there is an agreement on the exchange of specialists of medical institutions for the development of modern achievements of medical-diagnostic process , on the implementation of innovative medical technologies in cooperation with the universities of pavlodar and mangystau regions , on the joint innovation research and implementation of scientific research in priority science and technology areas .	0,16
with Kazakhstan accounting for 68%, Russia - 70%, Europe - 85-90%.	together with the chinese engineering academy and the largest oil company cnpc , we have taken the first step on technologies and application of new results of the scientific researches in oil fields ' said b. zhumagulov .	0,16
During the event, Kazakh experts met with representatives of the Academy of Sciences of the Uzbek Republic on remote earth sensing and histological technologies at the Astronomical Institute. "
Bulgaria's accession to the WTO facilitated integration with the world economy through the introduction of international procedures, as well as led to trade and investment relations within an international organization.
The solemn event took place on October 27 this year in the center of oriental literature of the Russian State Library.
In turn, the forum "Eurasian Economic Future" is another confirmation of the practical implementation of important negotiations reached at the meeting of the heads of Kazakhstan and China.
about 91% Kazzinc LLP (33% investments in the gold mining industry in 2014), "diamond" white (15%), "Varvarinsky" white (11%), "Kazakhaltyn" tmk (11%), "alel" white (7%), Yubileynoye LLP (4%), "orion minerals" LLP (3%), "white"
To participate in the competition, applicants must submit a complete package of documents, the list of which is established by the rules for selecting applicants for the award of the international future scholarship.
The goal is to increase trade and economic cooperation between the two regions and create joint ventures.
It is noted that in this regard, joint actions of contracting organizations and local executive bodies contribute to the continuous continuation of work.
then it was difficult to say in which direction we would move, "said Sh. Razbaev.
forces and formations performing military duty in the air were raised from the air defense, various aviation equipment was launched, additional airfields were put on standby for operation.
This was announced by the Mayor of Petropavlovsk marat Tasmagambetov, who presented a project for the development of the park.
Until 2010, 2 private kindergartens were opened in the region, from 2010 to the present, on the basis of public-private partnership, 28 preschool institutions for 3113 places were opened (23 kindergartens - 2598 children, 6 mini-centers - 515 children).
This law has repeatedly proved its effectiveness over the years of independence.
if necessary, we will have the opportunity to conduct some investigative actions in Monaco.
photographed aliyeva citizen
The first gift given to residents of Zhambyl region was the overhaul of the monument to dzhambul dzhabaev.
Today, support measures are regularly carried out
In June last year, more than 50 events were organized in the basement as part of the organization.
according to statistics, the volume of traffic in 2014 increased by 34% compared to 2012 (in 2012 - 104.3 thousand tons, in 2013 - 157.8 thousand tons and in 2014 - 158.5 thousand tons).
the memorandum is aimed at retraining and advanced training based on the technology and technology of a certified training center for the development of teaching and professors.
this is the legal aid document presented today.
Taking this into account, public awareness should be provided.
According to a.ru, in August, the launch of the car loan process in the country contributed to the growth of demand and production in mechanical engineering.
It is planned that the plant will be opened before the end of the year.
it envisages the transition of the justice system from five stages to 3 stages.
a collection of clothes from the yurt "pattern of centuries" of the fashion designer, the winner of the international competition "design debut" will also be presented.
The forum, which was attended by more than 200 participants from 34 countries and 9 representatives of state bodies and organizations, discussed issues of combating terrorism and violent extremism.
at competitions in the regional martial arts palace will be supervised by the referee of the international class of chervanev Yuri.
Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tursunbek zhuizakov
the collection contains about 500 items presented as awards or awards.	it should be noted that the collection of public awards is extremely varied in composition : orders , medals , honorary and commemorative badges , different certificates and diplomas .	0,17
at the same time, the revenues of the national budget in 2015 are estimated at 3,174,2 billion tenge, which is less than the approved plan by 45.8 billion tenge.	due to the inflation the free float rate corridor increased from 6 -8 % to 8 -10 % .	0,17
More than half of the operational budget for 17 billion tenge will have goods, works and services of Kazakh producers, the akim said.
also 6 silver and 5 bronze medals.
Kazakhstan is the 9th region in the world with unique agricultural resources.	the choice was not accidental .	0,17
for example, we will consider today's issues in September-October, "said V. Lopatkin.
Within the framework of the conference, a number of trainings and seminars were held.
the basic labour guarantees and rights of employees are also enshrined, and the possibility of increasing them by concluding collective, individual contracts and agreements and instruments for the protection of the rights and interests of employees is envisaged.
Recall that the introduction of an "open government" is the head of state. One of the points is 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms of Nazarbayev.
Then the heads of the national commissions took part in the meeting of the Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the Governor of Akmola region, where the reports of the deputy akim of Kokshetau were heard. Amrenova and Deputy Director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region on the development of women's entrepreneurship in the region and the implementation of gender policy.
And the computer science teacher Nazarbayev of the intellectual school of the physical and mathematical direction in Taldykorgan took the third prize.
the organizing committee of the International Olympiad in Informatics is headed by a professor of the Department of Informatics of the new Bulgarian University, the president of the Olympiad is Krassimir Manev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of leading American organizations and authoritative politicians in this area spoke at the event.
This is the optimal condition for the successful implementation of the tasks set by the head of state in terms of the nation "100 concrete steps."
these contributions are not considered the property of citizens and will be registered in the conditional pension account of each employee opened in a single funded pension fund (npf).
the commission established an ad hoc working group with representatives of authorized bodies and organizations.
the city of Turkestan has been the capital of the Kazakh Khanate since 1598, that is, since the time of the Imam Khan.
In 2014, the development of the concept of creating an oil and gas service cluster in the city of Aktau began with the aim of implementing the Plan on development prospects of the Mangistau region and the Concept of creating promising national clusters in Kazakhstan until 2020, approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the test results will be included on the website of the National Testing Center along with hanging on plates at UNT points www.testcenter.kz.
Traditionally, in July, for the fourth year in a row, the festival venue gathered fans of outdoor activities and favorite listeners of author's songs.
it is connected and requires readiness within 24 hours per day, while the rescuer must have time to arrive at the collection point within half an hour.
The Maltese singer won the main prize of the popular international competition of young performers "Children's New Wave 2015."
As the Minister of Press and Information in the Government of Kazakhstan, I personally participated in the events depicted in the book.
Aliyev citizen photographed
to date, as part of the program for the development of breeding farms, 2,489 head of breeding cattle have been brought to the reproductive farm of north-agro LLP at 4% per annum for a period of 10 years.
Recall that the conditions for financing export operations in terms of supporting Kazakhstani exporters were approved by Government Resolution No. 271 of April 23, 2015.
this is 13.2% more than in 2014.
these measures will eliminate as much as possible cases of acquaintance in the public service, debauchery and illegal custody of brothers.
all this is very important for the organization of any exhibition, "said Colonel Kurmanbayev, head of the military-technical policy department of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thanks to inva cars, a small circle of children manage to get treatment.
The document provides for the development of a logistics zone on the territory of aea "chorgos - east gate."
however, the land area varies depending on the content of the project, that is, it decreases or increases.
after the signing of the final documents, a solemn ceremony of awarding representatives of the CIS bodies and prosecutors took place.
at these stages, rescuers-young rescuers learn how to pass through mountain rivers using passages and improvised means, vertical equipment, learn how to overcome obstacles, and organize reliable safety.
Today we informed representatives of foreign gardens that they can send their proposals to the Kazakhstan Olympic Association.	young skater karina uzurova will also perform .	0,19
we have big plans for joint oil production from the Caspian.
As a result, she was in second place in the republic and received the title of "best team."
the office will be opened on the basis of the Kazakh Medical University named after S.D. Asfendiyarov.	the bill was introduced to the senate .	0,19
each step is specified in connection with a measure that can be taken in the future	each step is determined by the appropriate prerequisites .	0,19
negative customers - Russia, and China.	major clients - companies of russia and china , consuming nickel matte for the production of nickel and ferronickel - for stainless products .	0,19
At the same time, systematically eliminate shortcomings that do not remain systemic, fulfill planned volumes of transportation and improve quality indicators.	at the same time we must continue to implement plans to address the weaknesses of the work .	0,19
the anthem is one of the main symbols of the state.	the national anthem of kazakhstan	0,19
at the panel session "Strategy of national oil and gas companies on the current state," Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazneftegaz Daniyar Berlibayev explained about privatization.
Acts of central authorities are based on the principles and norms of English and Welsh law and the standards of the world's leading financial centers, primarily on the regulatory documents of the Dubai International Financial Center.
we are pleased that our athletes, students from year to year show good results at these competitions.
this requires us, dear colleagues, the coherent, joint and organizational work of both houses of parliament and the senate, the high responsibility and professionalism of each of us.
By order of the Department of the State Emergency Service in the city of Astana dated June 4, 2015 No. 81 - Changes were made to the structure of the average holiday tariff of Astana Energy Byt LLP, related to the equipment of multi-storey buildings, having the technical possibility of installing common house thermal energy metering devices in the city of Astana, 99.5%, brought into line with differentiated tariffs for the group of consumers and put into effect from July 1, 2015 due to the absence or availability of thermal energy metering devices.
photographed wide axeite
Now we are considering the possibility of seeking help from mediator judges, perhaps the dispute will be resolved.
preschool organization No. 47 "nur-ai" - for 150 places, the total area - 2100.0 square meters.
In turn, the customs service of the member states of the union also regularly posts information within the framework of the agreement, "the statement said.
products not produced in the region or less produced are provided through a stabilization fund from other regions.
in addition, the provisions of the document provide for the protection of violated or contested rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, the state and legal entities.
for the implementation of these projects, investors involved in the development of meat and dairy production in accordance with a government decree were considered significant funds from the state and priority subsidies were allocated to cattle and small livestock structures for the purchase of equipment and equipment necessary for irrigation of pastures, as well as for the reimbursement of part of the costs of dug wells and wells (wells).
in the future, the plant will process meat products deeply.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
aliyev, who photographed
aliyev, who photographed
in addition, contractors were identified in the capital-Pavlodar (443 km) and Pavlodar-Semipalatinsk (53 km) sections.
Today we witnessed the opening of 3 metropolitan schools, the rapids of which left thousands of schoolchildren.	the chairman of the board of  baiterek " national holding " jsc ( hereinafter - holding ) kuandyk bishimbayev and chairman of the bank of china ( bank of china ) tian guoli signed memorandum of cooperation , which involves the cooperation on investment projects , including co-investment and private equity infrastructure funds .
In the Parasat park on the outskirts of the city, an event was held with the participation of employees of state institutions of the city.
According to the results of the competition, the Kyzylorda Mukhameda Bekpeis, who continue their studies at the Nartai Song School, won the main prize.
During the meeting, an interested conversation took place on topical issues of the social sphere, after which the Deputy Prime Minister answered problematic questions.
it raises cooperation to a new level.
employer-employee ratios will be based predominantly on regulatory principles through collective agreements and contracts.
in addition, as Pshembayev emphasized, domestic oil and gas enterprises are adapting to the export of their products to the member states of the customs union and the EU and other countries.
pension payments from the budget are paid for life and are not inherited.
In this regard, the Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of Azilkhanov explained the essence of the issue to the guests and participants of the meeting.
Kazakhstan plays a very important role in this.	the heads of the eaeu member states signed a decision to start formal negotiations with israel on an agreement on an fta .	0,20
in the whole country, the introduction of training modules will be completed in 2017.	to increase the coverage of children with disabilities preschool education facilities are offered to provide widespread opening of corrective groups , correctional kindergartens and groups on the basis of public-private partnerships .	0,20
in connection with the opening of a sports building on Satpaev Street No. 52, the composition of students is growing.	on the basis of school there are 25 coaches .	0,20
The EEC Board approved integration measures to increase the economic stability of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).	the board approved the measures to improve the economies of eaeu member states .	0,20
As a result, the volume of operating expenses for the group of companies decreased by 405 billion tenge, general administrative expenses - by 55 billion tenge, capital investments - by 235 billion tenge.	the company created about 15 thousand temporary jobs and 7 thousand permanent jobs .	0,20
According to the regional department of industrial and innovative development, the main purpose of the visit is to study the accumulated experience of accelerated development of modern Turkey, mainly the mechanism of functioning of the industrial zone of the industrial center - the city of Konya.	the main purpose - to study the experience of the industrial center of konya city and the functioning mechanism of the industrial zone .	0,20
According to the CEO, all production is unique, since they work on the principle of one window, that is, before modeling, assembly, production and delivery of products to the customer.	according to the ceo , the entire production is unique due to the principle of a single window .	0,20
During the talks, the parties discussed the possibility of increasing freight and container transportation by transit through Kazakhstan in the Chinese European direction.	the sides discussed the development of container transport service china - europe .	0,20
this project simultaneously accepts payments for the removal of water, gas, municipal waste, electricity, telecommunications.	this service helps to pay the bills .	0,20
Within three hours, about 150 people with disabilities took part in the fair.	the center was attended by over 150 people .	0,20
Also the modern fire fighting equipment, the equipment, clothes of firefighters was presented to attention of children.	children got acquainted with modern fire equipment .	0,20
the agreement defines the processes of safe and orderly return of people.	the agreement defines the procedures for identifying the safe and orderly return of persons who do not or no longer fulfill the conditions for entry , stay or residence on the territory of both countries , and will also facilitate the transit of such persons .	0,20
In January 2015, Kazakhstan began implementing the measures of state support for investments adopted by the head of state last year.	kazakhstan introduces vise free regime for all these countries .	0,20
Recall that the winners of the regional competition by the end of this year will compete in the republican competition.	the winners were awarded with diplomas and memorable gifts .	0,20
thanks to all the guys who have achieved these accolades.
During the meeting, the participants will discuss the current situation for the delivery of textbooks and textbooks in the region.
This plan will contribute to the further development of the country's medical sphere.
the remaining animals will go on free sale and will now be sold outside the requirements of the auction.
prizes of the capital in duathlon-2015 will be presented in three categories of age: 16-35, 36-50 and over 51 years.
The delegation included the head of the center of strategic research and analysis of the presidential administration Ayan Manasova, the deputy permanent representative of UNDP in Kazakhstan, the head of the research group of the regional hub in the field of public service in Altangerel, Astana.
By the way, 7 children are brought up in a kadir family.
The Secretary of State met with the participants of the Impulse 2050 program at the North Kazakhstan State University named after M. Zozybayev.
in the remaining areas, delivery dates under the contract are 20.07 of the current year. from 25.08.
at a meeting with the participation of deutsche bank and Baiterek holding, as well as various companies of Kazakhstan "National Development Bank of Kazakhstan," "National Agency for Technological Development" white "treasury capital management" JSC "Fund for Enterprise Development" Kazexportgarant "sk" ak, "development" Kazakh delegation, consisting of white representatives "investment fund of Kazakhstan."
this privatization process is as open as possible, for this purpose it is planned to involve independent international consultants such as mckinsey, bcg, tony blair group, "N. Ulbatyrov emphasized.
According to the press service of the regional akimat, the head of the region on Sunday met with scientists of the Kazakh Research Institute of Grain Economy named after A.I. Abraev.
then he will introduce mechanisms for controlling the targeted use of equity holders' money through engineering companies.
A great achievement in the framework of the forum is the possibility of building a glass factory in the regional center.
at the same time, the experience of participation in the pension system includes the experience of working in the solidarity system (work experience as of January 1, 1998), as well as the period of transfer of mandatory pension contributions (actual experience of transferring pension contributions).
The project is coming to an end.
over the past five years, the number of migrants with higher education in the country has exceeded twice.
in addition, the customs portfolio establishes the norm of mandatory notification of goods imported into the eurozone.
By 2030, they aim to reduce air emissions by 15-25%.
Since the beginning of 2015, state labor inspectors found that 735 enterprises owed 24.8 thousand employees in the amount of 3.5 billion tenge.
Of the 1,762 residential buildings in the city, 1,427 are covered by central heating.
During the meeting, an exchange of views was held on the implementation of youth policy, the importance of exchanging experience among professional young specialists.
apartments will be provided as part of the program to young workers under the age of 35.
Today, the entrepreneur grows garden products by drip irrigation on 20 hectares of land.
photo of baurzhan zhuasbaev
in turn, it incurs only financial costs.
Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Civil Code is brought into line with chapter 35 of the draft Code, according to which civil cases on applications for restriction or deprivation of the right to independently use their income by minors between the ages of fourteen and eighteen are considered and resolved in courts, and not in guardianship and care authorities.
In addition, the head of the region noted that since Kazakhstan joined the customs union, it is necessary to think about the production of products that can become competitive for the trading space.
The event was attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alexei Volkov, Chairman of the Serbian Parliament Maya Gojkovic, Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, representatives of the deputy and diplomatic corps, scientific and creative intelligentsia, business circles and the Kazakh diaspora.
In connection with the solution of gas problems arising during the difficult period of winter, work began on laying the Rocky gas pipeline in accordance with the investment project of Kaztransgazimak JSC worth 420 million tenge.
yesterday at an expanded government meeting, the head of state thanked all deputies.
Since the publication, the publication has amazed him with history, including medieval tourism.
the guaranteed volume of fuel and lubricants in the amount of 77.0 thousand tons was allocated from the state budget for this area.
The national contest of the jubilee family is held as part of the order of the head of state for the second year in a row.
In his speech, Bakhtiyar Nunerbayev congratulated the members of the delegation on their arrival in the Almaty region and wished them a successful continuation of their trips.
Today, Kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of librarianship, improvement of the work and technical equipment of libraries.
The President of Kazakhstan Railway noted that Askar-mom is a reliable performer, supplying railway transport machines of Kazakhstan to Azerbaijan, and noted that at present he can supply diesel locomotives, electric locomotives, guide turns and other railway products.
the youth wing of kha, ethnocultural associations.	'the youths of the apk has learned a lot .	0,22
now pupils are studying in schools in the city.	i teach singing .	0,22
all factions, deputy associations, all committees of both houses, each deputy, showing solidarity, worked for common country goals. concluding the session , we know what we have to do in the coming period .
yesterday I signed 4 loan agreements.
In his speech K. Massimov noted that from the first days of independence, the head of state N.A. Nazarbayev has been participating in the development of multi-vector and peaceful relations with all states of the world.
About the contribution to realization of the main priorities of the national idea "The m g_l_k ate" participants discussed with the Chairman of the Committee on development of languages and social and political work of the Ministry for Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the graduate of the Bolashak program.
in the territory of the center and its participants, only the norms of the law on ahko and the acts of its bodies apply.
this will allow to pass the final final selection.
The head of state held a telephone conversation with the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
The senator added that the head of state noted the need to amend the current legislation to transition to a three-level judicial system when implementing the national plan for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
Kazakhstan electrolysis plant, gres-1 and processing enterprises in our region have established trade relations with French partners.
according to the project, the planned capacity of the plant will be at least 25 tons of refining gold and 50 tons of silver per year.
this type of seed distinguishes high quality milk from other breeds, especially with high fat content than other dairy seeds.
nickel is used in various industries.
we see that Kazakhstani enterprises show great interest in this tool.	some of them have already been responded .	0,23
Today, our company is negotiating with the customer of ksp steel LLP on the supply of 5 thousand and 1 thousand tons of flexible wire.
students of military educational institutions, graduates who graduated at the time of certification, persons who have reached the age limit in military service and are recognized as unfit or limited fit, as well as officers who are on maternity leave, childcare, or officers whose entry into the service has opened a criminal case.
hardened kaumetova
aliyev photographer
photo of Aliyev citizen
test results are recorded on the site of the National Testing Center, along with posting on plates at UNT points www.testcenter.kz.
women with production facilities want to understand what situation makes their company competitive.
in addition, the adoption of the document will allow organizations using nuclear energy to ensure safety in the use of nuclear energy and its regulation, meet safety requirements and reduce the costs of their implementation.
the exhibition presents about 70 thematic paintings of the Union of Artists of Kazakhstan.
Despite the youth of the structure, the example of an organization based on such rules becomes interesting even for countries abroad, "he said.
Kazakh delegation was headed by Vice Minister for Investment and Development Rakhym Oshakbayev.
the archive works according to the program "e-akimat."
this meeting will lead to the fact that the best specialists in the field of radiology will not have experience, "said the vice minister.
tx. Miyachi noted that on the eve of EXPO-2017, the pace of architecture increased.
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
National Fund and Kyzylorda regions occupy the last place.
funds for repairs were allocated from the national budget.
As a result of the discussion, the members of the committee supported the submission to the Senate and the approval by the House of the bill on the opening of the office of the world health organization for primary health care in Almaty.
In the coming week, workers of the plant will begin earthworks, in particular, the pit will be finished for the main line of glass production
medical organizations use this information to correctly diagnose and accept manipulations against a person.	this is the first thing that the electronic passport gives .	0,23
As the vice-minister noted, there are enough such examples in our country, many athletes were able to achieve the goals, having received the citizenship of our country. one of the brightest examples is our weightlifters .
I supported the government's proposal to revise the budget for next year, "the head of state said.
In addition, administrative public services are rotated to better utilize the professional capacity of public servants.
at an affordable price, they will be able to deliver citizens from the airport to the city center, to the post in less time, "concluded Duisengaliev.
During the event, three panel sessions were organized on topical issues of the garden, blogging sphere, master classes were held with the participation of domestic and foreign speakers.
the commission's cooperation with Tju will have a positive impact on the development of integrated processes in the field of railway transport and will help the commission effectively realize its tasks and functions, "said T. Mansurov.
all deserve respect and dignity.
The European Union is the main trading and investment partner of Kazakhstan in the world.
As T.Duissenova noted, the second type of medical services will be an insurance package, which will be presented by the newly created medical insurance fund.
indicators in this area show a slowdown in development.
The best teachers of technical and professional specialties were awarded the title "Best Teacher - 2015."
The Survival Award is awarded to social projects.
at the same time, the agreement will resolve issues of regulation of international road transport of passengers and goods between the states of the parties.
The capital, which today really became the enemy of Eurasia, has reached high heights.
the second stage of the plant was built in a separate form, including tractors for the production of gypsum connecting materials.
to date, 97.4 million hectares of agricultural land or 98.8% are on long-term leases, and only 1.2% are privately owned.	the draft law was developed in terms of the implementation of the steps 35 and 36 of the national plan .	0,24
the main purpose of these exercises is to train joint actions of all controls and personnel during combat missions.	the major objective of training is to improve the unit and personnel cohesion during combat missions .	0,24
at the same time, it is provided for the payment of private property before the expiration of the term of the right previously granted to them to use agricultural land at a preferential price determined up to the amount of fifty percent of the cadastral value of the land.	all these measures will create the necessary conditions ensuring market circulation , increase the responsibility and motivation of land users .	0,24
Following the results, a memorandum was signed between the parties on the expansion of flights between the countries.	as a result memorandum of understanding was signed .	0,24
also, having received a number of skills, rescuers will be able to safely and effectively carry out search and rescue operations in all mountain rivers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as independently choose places for crossings in compliance with all security measures, harmoniously approach work as part of the group.	after the course , the rescuers will be able to carry out search and rescue operations in the mountain rivers of kazakhstan .	0,24
mediation on population problems helps every day, "said Sh. Orazbaev.
on which list will be specified, I don't know yet.
business plans, feasibility studies and open-access presentations on the principle of open society, including through interactive maps of investment opportunities, will also be posted.
The Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN, Kairat Abdrakhmanov, briefed the participants on the history of the Semipalatinsk training ground.
it follows from the message that special wells were dug in the village of shortands at that time and a revision of the support valves was carried out.
At the board meeting, measures were considered to prevent social strains in labor collectives.
The Council of Heads of Turkic-speaking States was created on October 3, 2009 in the Azerbaijani city of Nakhchivan.
representatives of employer companies informed the Governor of the region about the proposed vacancies and their requirements.
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
According to him, this is a large import substitution project, if before that Kazakhstan depended on Ukraine and Russia, today the plant fully meets the needs of the state.
the head of the city so about the exploits of Bigeldin on the way of life.
in particular, you are partners in the peacekeeping field and in many programs.
we are aware of your interest in this matter.
the forecast corridor for inflation against the background of the slowdown against the US dollar in October this year due to the acceleration of inflationary processes increased from 6.0-8.0% to 8.0-10.0% this year.	minister noted that there were no reasons for the growth of prices for petrol in kazakhstan because there is no deficit of it in the country .	0,25
in a word, he intends to demonstrate his talent as an athlete in our country, "said S. Musaybekov.
Therefore, the set of measures is based primarily on the stabilization of the situation at the enterprise and its further development.
at the same time, the opening date of each direction has been approved, which is no later than 2020.
botagose aitzhanova
the purpose of these organizations is to introduce traditional spiritual education into the teaching process. "
new requirements for the judicial system during the event, high requirements for candidates for future judges and current judges, changes in the structure of the judicial system and the judicial system, the application of new technology in civil cases, transparency and transparency of legal proceedings, issues of access to the common population, strict observance of the norms of the judicial literary code, the structure of the judicial jury, the introduced verification of the professional qualifications of judges when nominated for a new position of 5, 10 years.
the remaining 493 km of the road will continue.
The Ural Transformer Plant is one of the enterprises of the region, which is part of the largest electrical holding companies of Kazakhstan "alageum electric," which received support for subsidizing the interest rate in the amount of 2.6 billion tenge under the state program "Business Roadmap 2020."
it's proud.
This is an authoritative Malaysian research institution and, in general, an Aseana institution.
this provision needs to be changed.
Success in the race ensured the athlete a ticket to the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
The ceremony of awarding winners is scheduled for October 19 in the pavilion of Kazakhstan for expo-2015.
Aliyev citizen
this year, all the necessary base was created for the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program, and we contributed, and this summer, before joining the working group and submitting documents to the national commission, the deputies worked on the session and adopted the bills submitted by the head of state as soon as possible, "the deputy said.
exploration geological routes have already been carried out to open and map areas of Mesozoic, Paleozoic and Cambrian rocks within the limits of sampling in the mineralization zone.
In the law on access to information, information on fire safety, sanitary, epidemiological, food security, emergency situations that threatens the health of citizens should always be available, "said M. Ashimbayev.
As U. Rusnak noted, the organization carries out work to support the legal sphere of work.
Logistical solutions have also been identified to reduce all impacts that impede transportation.
In order to strengthen control over the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, measures are planned for 2015-2016, the implementation of which is taken under control.
This is the main reason why the book is published right now.
In order to improve the legislation in the grain industry, this provision will be amended to include the introduction of an electronic register of grain lists. improvement of legislation in the field of grain .
every year its participants become more and more.
in a nursing home and disabled people, examined the activities of the institution, living conditions.
Today, a feasibility study for the ferroalloy plant project is already ready.
Overhaul of certain sections of the tone-2 oil pipeline has been underway since 2014, when private sections with a total length of 40 km were replaced in the amount of 5.3 billion.
active participation in the table tennis championship confirms the growing interest of Kazakh servicemen in this sport.
The Belarusian delegation presented for the exchange of experience military units of the troops and air forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
powerful electronic equipment of new time can observe private people on the ground and accurately convey to the operator in real time.
the bill approved by the Majilis will be sent to the Senate of Parliament.
employers will evaluate the business qualities of their candidates and attract young specialists to work.
Kazakhstan, and you have always set an example in this regard, and you have followed others.
The contract indicates the rules for using the pavilion, the conditions for participation, as well as the rights and obligations of the parties in accordance with the provision approved by the international exhibition bureau.
Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
Most importantly, as a result of the work on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the creation of new jobs, the region's economy developed steadily, and part of the region's budget revenues increased.
daniyar kassymov
daniyar kassymov
In turn, Askar Zhumagaliyev noted that the Kyzylorda region always supports the initiatives of the national nuclear company Kazatomprom.
According to him, the enterprise does not have a personnel shift, the plant is trying to provide social support to employees.
It featured products from 36 companies.
On July 31, Almaty and Beijing will legalize and publish their statements, after which the results will be summed up.
Governor of Pavlodar region K. bozumbayev and akim of Mangistau region a. aidarbayev signed a memorandum on the development of interregional cooperation, improving the competitiveness of the regions.
Chinese Engineering Academy, "kazmunaigaz," cnpc.
Thanks to the efforts and finances of the National Guard of the military unit No. 28237, the basement of secondary school No. 187 was cleaned of dirt, currently the school has been cleaned by 98%.
The next activity of the unisef was the gymnasium school No. 262 of the city.
The purpose of the action is to form the principle of "zero tolerance" for riots and petty offenses among the people, to increase the legal consciousness and legal culture of citizens.
the total amount of financing for them will be 33.5 billion tenge.
Increased public participation in public order.
tangirulova anar
we will constantly support young people, "the Governor of the region said.
The history of production of seed-gas tractors began in 2009 with a competition for the organization of production for the assembly of agricultural machinery in Kazakhstan, which was held by a subsidiary of Kazagro Holding - Kazagrofinance.
in regional significance, Western European countries predominate in this list.
an agreement was also reached on the training of 10 students of the Almaty school "haliberry" under the sponsorship of entrepreneurs.
Under PPP, a partnership with an international corporation has become possible, and a diamond road structure has been developed.	for the first time such a structure was created as a spe in central asia .	0,26
transport and logistics have always been considered a priority for financing the savings bank.
tangirkulova anar
no state has reached such a life expectancy during this time, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
botagose aitzhanov
botagose aitzhanov
Today, changes are being made to the tax legislation on exemption of merchant ships from corporate income tax and value added tax. as of today , kazakhstan plans to cancel the cit and vat .
upon completion of textbooks will be included in the school curriculum.
our athletes, as a boxing power, did not deserve credit, "said A. Permyakov.
The business trip program of East Kazakhstan region began with the official meeting of Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov and the Chairman of the PRC.
an additional report on this bill was made by the Secretary of the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship of the Senate of Parliament.
international partners of the youth wing "zhas otan" from the Russian Federation, the Kyrgyz Republic and Mongolia came to the international meeting.
in order to achieve the goals set, as well as taking into account the trend of the development of armed means of struggle, the increase in the role of command and control of troops and weapons, informants in modern battles and armed conflicts, a training system is constantly being improved.
In addition, Dr. Regogine recalled that a transitional control system is being developed in Almaty region.
today to improve the investment climate, Kazakhstan draws attention to: improving the investment climate in accordance with OECD standards; strengthening efforts to attract foreign investment and transnational companies; cooperation on country principles; enhanced cooperation with international financial institutions (bb, edub, ib, adb); improving the Government's performance; monitoring of the industrialization map; investment support activities.
the parties noted that the entry of our country into the world trade organization was a vivid manifestation of reaching a new level of partnership.
workers feel patronized.
these are the necessary conditions for the implementation of an entrepreneurial initiative that provides flexibility and stability of the economy, "said B. Baibek.
The First Deputy Minister said that this program is an important contribution of our country to the implementation of the UN initiative "sustainable energy for all humanity."
It is worth noting that the main goal of the event is to improve the situation with road traffic injuries and reduce the number of accidents on the roads.
horse racing in Kokbastau also began by singing.
therefore, when children come to us, according to the results of the test, they are divided into four main groups: "very high," "high," "medium" and "sufficient."
hence other little-studied Kazakh territories.
city service separates the streets of the capital.
The second place was taken by the teacher of informatics Nazarbayev intellectual school of physical and mathematical direction of Kokshetau.
Kazakhstan's experience in launching man into space will continue to develop.	i went in for sports , i had good physical fitness .	0,27
within the framework of this state program, it leads in the republic.	according to the governor of the region , each district must create machine and tractor stations ( mts ) and a special center for attracting new technologies .	0,27
the main purpose of the audit is to assess the real state of affairs regarding the organization of regional defense in the regions.	the main purpose is to assess the real state of the territorial defense in the regions .	0,27
a great steppe in the wake of history. "
This is an excellent indicator for the first shot from a Kalashnikov assault rifle.	another soldier of the second infantry battalion soldier lomali dugayev showed the best result in the shooting , but from the hand antitank rpg-7 .	0,27
in particular, a draft agreement on navigation was considered to allow for the free passage of vessels on the inland waterways of Member States.	in particular , they considered the draft agreement on navigation .	0,27
Meanwhile, the Director General of the National Art Museum noted that the forum was held at a high level.	he also noted the high level of organization of the forum .	0,27
there a new measure of state support for subsidies under a specific contract was introduced.	today vat is charged to the total turnover .	0,27
prior to this, a conversation took place with employees of the ZHAS-2020 State University about the entire state program in the category of "young family."
in connection with the change in nuclear infrastructure - it acquires a complex political significance in the world.
interaction with other power structures of the region was organized, places and distribution points were deployed to collect military personnel.
eat properly, engage in physical education.
In total, in 2011-2014, Kazagrofinance imported 40,380 cattle into the country (meat 33,824 heads, milk 6,556 heads).
According to the results of the festival, the best groups were awarded valuable prizes.
The adoption of this bill by the Government of Kazakhstan is aimed at improving legal mechanisms.
these are primarily energy conservation, renewable types of energy, energy efficiency, stony energy.
exhibits exhibited in the national museum inform about a large amount of information and are directly related to the Kazakh khanate.
now the main urban planning document of the city must receive the consent of the ministries before the government of the country.
It is noted that in the first five-year plan in the period from 2010 to 2014, the project was transferred from the slow current regime to the active phase, which fills the development of the economy with industrial projects.
after which the results of voting of IOC representatives are determined in the evening.
This SSC provides 155 types of public services.
in the ranking on global competitiveness, Kazakhstan improved a number of indicators on the rule of law.
In October, we plan to organize a summit of the CIS and the EAEU.
thus, information about land owners' lands will be transparent and transparent.
therefore, numerous changes are being made in the area of personal data and information security of the corporate network.
Currently, more than 2,500 people are served in the village (of which 606 are children under 14 years old).
every day, as the situation demands, there I know the circumstances of the case.
at the same time, we were able to protect national interests.
The head of state noted that the civil war in Afghanistan, which lasted more than 30 years, greatly affected the well-being of the population, so our republic fully supports the work carried out today to stabilize and develop the country.
By a decision of the Council of Heads of CIS Member States of January 25, 2000, it was granted the status of an interstate body of the CIS.
In 2015, 336 thousand Kazakhstani children attend the first class.
According to the employees of Themis, the revision of the bill has been amended.
Currently, the management of the enterprise pays special attention to training, except for the direct production of products.
In addition, the bill provides for a number of directions to improve the social protection system for citizens with disabilities.
In his welcoming speech Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan baibek abai kunanbaev noted that with his peculiarities and wisdom he brought Kazakh literature and culture to a new level.
as a result, military climbers reached Abay Peak in seven hours (excluding landing time).
Alexander Lukashenko gave the same support to the Belarusian people in the presidential election on October 11.
shanyrak is the main systemic part of the yurt, resembling a blue dome and is one of the main sources of life in the traditional culture of the nomads of Eurasia.
A resident of Zhambyl district became the winner of a competition organized by ulan Omarov.
now there is a lot of incomprehensible in this issue, many citizens think that the ultimate goal of informatization is automation.
that is, agricultural producers can offer their products directly on the shapagat market, thereby significantly reducing prices.
Following the results of preliminary negotiations, the Kazagronym for the export of finished meat in the center is working on the issue of export at the request of Iranian and Pakistani countries.
The decree applies to all citizens who wish to visit Kazakhstan as soon as possible.	at the same time the vice-minister said that this initiative will have a positive effect for major events such as expo-2017 in astana and the winter universiade-2017 in almaty .	0,28
In the future, the head of the region got acquainted with the progress of improvement and landscaping of the territory of the newly under construction central mosque.	also in the region it is planned to open a new mosque in the middle of august this year .	0,28
At the beginning of the ceremony, the Chairman of the KHA presented the jubilee medal "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" to journalists who distinguished themselves with outstanding works in the field of journalism.
At the end of the event, the Chairman of the Committee on Youth Affairs named after D. Serikbaeva expressed gratitude on behalf of the gathered youth and noted that it was the youth who will implement the projects that will be discussed.
the author told the audience in detail about the historical personality of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
raids are being organized to identify illegal water users from water distribution networks for the effective use of drinking water.
it may not be like a crisis in our understanding, including a change in economic reality and truth in the world.
some of them are associated with ancient inscriptions.
On the same day, the Sadibek ulasbek held a reception of citizens in the district branch of the Nұr Otan party in the Sairam district.
In addition, the Minister noted that work is underway between Italy and Kazakhstan in several areas in the field of publishing in the Kazakh language.
Of course, your specialists are enough, but new young specialists in the field of non-proliferation would be joyful.
it is designed to host games in modern sports.
This step opens the way to a new stage of relations between Kazakhstan and the EU.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the UN Geneva office.
the decrease in prices is due to a decrease in implementation (wholesale) prices by suppliers of products by 10% in the act from 106 to 95 tenge per 10 pieces, in Kostanay - by 17% from 118 to 98 tenge per 10 pieces.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov met with the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Republic of Kazakhstan, who arrived on a two-day trip to East Kazakhstan region.
In turn, Michael A. Onil noted that last year a special agreement was signed between the President of Kazakhstan and Eidu, and drew attention to large-scale events held in this direction.
it was no coincidence that the car ended up in the camp named after Satpaev.
As follows from the message, this event was initiated by the civil alliance of West Kazakhstan region.
anar tanirkulova
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
botagose aizhanova
lighting of this area is planned to be transferred to the beam diode system.
the cooperative supplies to Europe 2000 tons of products per year - 12 types of drying, 24 types of dried fish.
To this end, the institutional potential for the implementation of the cluster development program within the framework of the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 will be expanded, "the minister said.
In accordance with weather conditions, the yield of hard grains is low, so now the heads of agricultural formations are entrusted with diversifying production, "he said.
In January-August 2015, the trade turnover of the North Kazakhstan region and Belarus amounted to 6.2 million US dollars.
this is a large-scale area in Kazakhstan, therefore the head of state defines energy efficiency improvement as one of the most important measures.
According to the heads of energy enterprises, before the autumn-winter season, intensive preparatory work is underway in all areas.	according to the leaders of the companies , now the company is preparing for construction .	0,28
Nevertheless, the integration of its facilities with the infrastructure of the capital after the exhibition will be more important.	once again , i would like to emphasize .	0,28
revenues of the national budget in 2015 are estimated at 3,174.2 billion tenge excluding transfers.	however , there is price fixing but the committee for regulation of natural monopolies and protection of competition of the ministry of national economy of kazakhstan is working on addressing this issue .	0,28
membership in this organization will contribute to improving the training of civil servants to the level of the best European standards.	this organization will contribute to the improvement of teaching methods .	0,28
botagose aitzhanova	botagoz aitzhanova	0,28
botagose aitzhanova	botagoz aitzhanova	0,28
botagose aitzhanova	botagoz aytzhanova	0,28
botagose aitzhanova	botagoz aytzhanova	0,28
botagose aitzhanova	botazog aitzhanova	0,28
an alternative guarantee programme is also being developed, which does not include sectoral or regional restrictions.	these enterprises were paid about 58.3 billion subsidies .	0,28
abai world, "commissioned by the State Language Development Fund.
the trip will continue in Semey, where guests will take part in a gala dedicated to the anniversary of Abay.
I like the scientific side, not the organizational side, which has become the order for Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by deputies of both houses of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and parliamentary representatives of the EU countries.
that information is available to the public in any case.
road workers distributed booklets calling on drivers to comply with traffic rules and be careful in transport.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan Dzhumakhanov introduced the audience to the main achievements in the political and socio-economic spheres of the country, and also drew special attention to the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
many interactive thematic scenery and music programs bring participants their historical world.
The construction of this kindergarten for 320 places in the regional center began in June 2014.
and the sun means the source of life, energy, wealth and abundance.
During the conference, a plenary session was held, at which the presentation of the book "I Sing Page and Courage" was organized.
he built a house from the village of Zatobol, the center of the Kostanay district.
for example, an orchestra with a Kazakh mare, a Russian bayan, a Tatar harmony and an Uzbek dutar works in the center.
The event was widely publicized in major Italian and international media.
Head of the Secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Aktobe region, who took the baton from the West Kazakhstan region, acted as a friend of nurshin and noted the importance of the historical and cultural expedition.
Opening the forum, the chairman of the forum noted the priority areas for the development of economic integration in the Eurasian space.
at the second stage, the commission will begin to develop business plans with the support of 10 best projects of consultants and professional mentors, "said K. Ishimbayev.
Other famous Chinese actors, such as Jia Xiaojun, Shang Hong and others, were invited to voice the words of persons in the lead roles.
According to him, the leadership of the railways of the two countries, continuing this tradition, intends to increase the production of high-quality railway products.
in the depot there is a platform on the ground floor of which there is a car, 6 is the main, 4 is the reserve, and a communication point is located here.
at the same time, additional mandatory pension contributions to judges at the expense of the republican budget are excluded.
In 2003-2015, 12 meetings of the commission were held, following which important agreements and results were reached.
from the new year we will have new people, a new chairman.
its reading rooms simultaneously receive more than 500 readers.
in addition, kdb implements primary affairs in the field of processing.
Mayor of Almaty baybek participated in the solemn atmosphere.
One way to recover costs is to certify your products.
It should be noted that the interaction of this information system saves time on the submission of documents, and also reduces the risk of bank employees performing erroneous operations when introducing customer's personal data into the banking system.
Diana Gurtskaya, who was pleased with the songs performed by the children.
In turn, Vladimir Putin noted that meetings and negotiations at the highest level are held regularly.
they passed the test and confirmed the conformity of the position.
one of the newborns was called an astronaut.
The Kazakh army was attended by permanent representatives of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, officers-leaders of airmobile troops and a representative of the National University of Defense named after the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The project will be implemented on the basis of the transfer of general technologies of international organizations and advisory companies to the Kazakh population, other state bodies, health organizations, as well as new institutional structures created under the project.
if he takes part in the trials daily and actually sees how difficult it is, he will understand what difficulties he faces in the process of work, "said the chairman of the Yesilsky district court.
the third area of ​ ​ cooperation is the agro-industrial complex.
The head of state also thanked the participants for their participation in the further development of the capital.
day - time, the way of time.
entrepreneurs presented their companies to the diplomat.
therefore, in this holiday it is very important to unite with all Kazakhstanis, young people and the elderly, with those whom your care and attention are in great demand, "said the senior lieutenant of Ayman smetova, head of the house of officers of the Taraz garrison.
I want to wish that we have many patriots, "said K. Sherbayev.
immediately after the ceremony, the participants began the first competitive stages.
teaches specialists at a college related to the Kentau transformer plant.
To date, Turkmenistan is negotiating the supply of geosynthetic materials for the construction of roads totaling $8 million, "said a representative of s.m.f.-system LLP.
we catch ourselves, we process ourselves, we sell ourselves.
Therefore, it was decided to transfer the income and property of individuals to general declaration, "said B. Sultanov.
tax authorities on property privatization received an application for privatization of 17 housing facilities outside the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 636.2 million tenge.
the laboratory is part of the center of the high-precision satellite navigation (navigation) system and is designed to provide services for checking satellite navigation equipment, which is a measuring tool operating on signals of global navigation satellite systems gps navstar, glonass, galileo and a functional application sbas, as well as for conducting scientific research on satellite navigation.
photographs and natural products related to the consolation of the isate taimanula and mahambet, the heads of the national liberation uprising (1836-1838), small folk batyrs dated to cheese (1712-1802), a copy of the dombra of a rough poet with a 200-year history;
held positions of responsibility in the British government, carrying out government expertise of large state projects.
During the year of the postman, postmen in rural points will be provided with a postman mobile device and by the end of the year - summer and winter uniforms, and from 2016 a system of personal interest of postmen will be introduced.
The certificate of completion of the basic course is an important element in the training of military personnel.
The implementation of general growth will affect many sectors of the economy, "said the CEO of the kazenergy association, a group of magauds.
The grand final of the international song contest "Bala turkvizyon" will be held in the fall in the capital of Turkmenistan.
children in their works showed examples of preserving the forest from fires, observing fire safety rules and the work of firefighters.
according to him, the main part of the bill is designed to regulate the procedures for filling out and submitting a declaration by individuals.
implementation of the project will increase the powers of small businesses credited under a credit line in the amount of $200 million provided through the World Bank.
the center carried out expert work.	the construction of 37 schools has already been completed , including 19 buildings in disrepair .	0,30
Here, to establish contacts with foreign partners, thematic business practice is provided in Germany.	it should be noted that the employer has been trained under the project  business communication , " which provides thematic business training in germany to establish business relations with foreign partners .
the bottom of unity is alive, "now the problem of many countries arises due to the lack of unity.
this will allow local companies to participate in the manufacturing process.
During the exhibition the protocol of the Agreement of Akimat of Aktobe region of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on implementation of measures on trade, economic, scientific, technical, cultural and public cooperation for 2014-2016 was drawn up.
our scientists need to work early.
in the social sphere, health specialists from the two regions will exchange experience to improve advanced medical and diagnostic processes.
acceptance or refusal by the admissions board in accordance with the secondary score of the certificate of basic secondary education with the results of three stages.
a.al-jerman said that the Emirati side is ready to sign an agreement with the government of Kazakhstan on the protection of bilateral investments in the near future.
The meeting discussed the measures taken by state bodies to prevent corruption in implementing the recommendations of the Istanbul action plan of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu) to combat corruption, as well as in conducting public procurement procedures.
the project implemented by both sides to modernize the great silk road is aimed not only at economic development, market integration and the formation of a favorable business environment, but also at strengthening the cultural and spiritual ties of Asian countries.
It should be noted that since the establishment of this exhibition, representatives of Azerbaijan have been participating as observers.
on the 64 km section of the highway "sub-steppe-fedorovka of the Russian Federation" and the 28 km section from the Ural city of Uralsk to the border with the Russian Federation, medium repair work is underway.
tanyrkulova anara
anara tanirkulova
tangirkulova anara
tangirkulova anara
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
only 26 people.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the state program "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" provides for the training of educational programs using new laboratory equipment.
botagose aitzhanova
.thotagosis of aitzhanov
botagonz aitzhanov
sergeants who have received good grades are awarded certificates of completion of the basic course.
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
any young entrepreneur receives support regardless of the area in which he works.
many residents raised the issue of the need to install warm stops.
I believe you have future champions.
there are also two sports fields, warehouses and repair rooms for storing boats at the necessary temperature.
The Development Fund provides a start-up young entrepreneur with guarantees in the amount of 85% of the loan amount.
According to the results of the competition, the main prize was presented by the physics teacher Nazarbayev of the intellectual school of the chemical and biological direction of Aktobe.
This conference was devoted to the results of the joint project "Housing construction and energy-efficient design."
At present, the ministry has adopted a schedule for the implementation of measures that are special conditions for the entry into force of the loan agreement on the project and the implementation of priority measures for the implementation of the project has begun, "explained the Dossayev Erbolat.
Note that the "transformation" of the samruk-kazyn "club" expert ": ways and problems of implementation."
1 billion 303.5 million tenge was purchased from the local budget in 2013, 1 billion 563.4 million tenge in 2014.
a number of major regional events at the level of the collective security treaty organization and other organizations.
406 areas were cleaned, 175855 cubic meters of dirt were removed.
exports decreased by 42.5%, imports - by 23.8%.
The Committee noted that, as an initial outcome of the protection of the report, there was ample reason to assert that Kazakhstan's current achievements had fulfilled Kazakhstan's objectives and also fulfilled its international obligations in the field of child rights protection.
Thanks to the modernization of the production facilities of Semipalatinsk Engineering AK today, it is possible to fully satisfy the needs of the armed forces of the republic for the overhaul of all types of armored vehicles.
According to the expert, the visit of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to Beijing means the beginning of the period of implementation of the program "economic belt of the silk road" and "beam path" and their harmony among themselves.
Amendments to public-private partnership legislation have also been adopted.
The timely implementation of measures aimed at ensuring the uniform application of the law by courts is one of the most important conditions for the effective protection of the rights and interests protected by law, in addition to the observance of a uniform and sustainable legal regime in the country.
The results of harvesting campaigns of recent years show that farms with individual harvesters will have a great advantage.
wind, sun, geothermics, biomass.
Also, the founder of the network of kindergartens "Shugyla" seitkali alshynbayev shared his experience in creating private kindergartens.
Work is also under way to adjust the Abt-Software to prevent judges and judicial personnel from suspending or editing audio-visual recordings.
construction of energy-efficient facilities in regions with a feeling of shortage.
According to the media plan drawn up for June 2015, 10 articles on the achievements of the work were published in the local garden, as well as articles in order to popularize the registration of the population for online reception of government officials.
earlier, this benefit was granted to 75% of Kazakhstani workers.
first introduced the determination of the winner of the competition through the auction.
if one party refuses help, then it undertakes to justify its decision and officially report it, "said J. Asanov.
training and sports competitions are planned here.
the President drew particular attention to the fact that this code is of great importance, which leads to radical changes in the field of law, "said K. Tokayev.
He noted that "during this difficult period, the government and akims of the districts need to consider the entire fund that stimulates economic growth."
Within the framework of the forum, an exhibition was organized demonstrating the capabilities of more than 150 Kazakhstani and international startups.
He noted that in such circumstances, comprehensive measures should be taken that affect the work of the economy in new economic activities.
This development of the airport is planned to be carried out for the first time in Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Also, as part of the visit of the head of state to the UK, it is planned to hold a Kazakh-British forum of higher educational institutions.
As for the language, this year the amount of grants coincides with the number of young people wishing to enter the training on the basis of the allocated volume in languages.
After receiving a moratorium on the granting of subsoil use rights in 2014, a competition was held and 36 winners were determined.
It will be implemented through 5 institutional reforms.
As soon as you managed to withstand this work, you can silently hear who Nursultan Abishevich is.
there he also drew up strategic plans with his partners on the course of the war.
Secure supply by the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (Magate) on 11 June 2015.
flash mobs with the participation of famous people and veterans are planned in places of mass accumulation of people.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of the Nazarbayev initiative.
The meeting participants discussed issues of bilateral relations between the two countries, which are being strengthened every year.
the program is aimed at stimulating the export of Kazakhstani goods with high added value, as well as a number of technical, construction and transport services. the program is aimed at stimulating the export .
A necessary factor is the creation of a favorable environment for the preparation of mechanisms used by representatives of the expert and civil community in the implementation of the national plan - "100 concrete steps for the further development of state construction."
The preschool education system has been successfully developed.
documents provide for the observance of order and organizational work during personal readmission.
the culmination of the action "True to the Law" in Shymkent was the awarding of exemplary military personnel.
we decided it was a great necessity.
secondly, the possibility of distributing profits in an agricultural cooperative.
The first graduates of these programs will be graduated in 1.5 years, "said the rector.
at the plenary session, the deputies considered in the second reading amendments on pension issues and gave a positive assessment.
In order for residents to feel that the capital is developing, it is necessary to improve their lives and improve their well-being.
The seminar examines best practices and experiences in public policy analysis, assessment and risk management.
today we really respect the "jubilee" family and recognize it as a worthy winner, "said the Secretary of State.
It is worth noting that in ten days the farms of the region will begin harvesting.
staging is rare in Kazakhstan, so the organizers are sure that the performance, decorated with fantastic scenery, effects and fireworks, will be a real gift for residents of the capital and guests of the city. today we present the opera " aida " in a new format " open air , " around the world this format is very relevant .
it is equipped with an integrated small-sized navigation and stabilization system, a ship's hydrometeorological support complex, satellite navigation systems reception equipment, a global maritime communication, radio broadcasting and control system.
Currently, there are sixteen applications for the purchase of 2,391 livestock in financial institutions, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
It should be noted that the collegiate meeting will consider issues of cooperation of light industry and other relevant issues to date.
Regional Museum of History and Local Lore named after Potanin presented from his foundation the exhibition "Pavlodar region of fairy tales in the wake of history."
Currently, internal engineering work is underway here.
this applies not only to ordinary people, but also to business representatives.
Recall, the 28th Universiade was held in the South Korean city of Gwangju.
I allowed economic reforms at the beginning of modernization, because I knew that the development of democracy would be successful in implementing concrete affairs.
it is also planned to hold talks with the heads of State or Government within the framework of the general assembly.
Athletes from 22 countries were proud that they did not give rivals a zhuibayev scholarship.
this couple dreamed of becoming a big family.
We are proud that the company of the honor guard of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan gave the opportunity to show the Kazakhstani at the parade in China.	about 500 units of ground combat equipment and about 200 planes and helicopters have been .	0,32
According to the chairman of the committee, the national plan "100 concrete steps to implement 5 institutional reforms that are currently being implemented in our country" is a comprehensive development program that includes Kazakhstan in 30 of the most developed countries in the world.
modernization, repair of worn-out water and heat networks, covering the costs of transporting electricity are topical issues in the housing and communal services sector of eastern Kazakhstan.
for repair of the lifting pump of the second level in the village of shortandy.
we offered government agencies a service that our business support centers should contain orders from enterprises.
The law provides for measures to increase restrictions on access to information.
Recall that the program for refinancing mortgage housing loans/mortgage loans was developed by the national bank following the implementation of the order of the head of state given at the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 11, 2015.
merchants do not freeze in the yellow pits of winter, and in a warm place they have the opportunity to find their butterflies.
Members of the working group familiarized the akim of the region with the project of development of woodworking and woodworking industries in East Kazakhstan region for 2015-2020.
Deputy Governor of Kyzylorda region Rauan kenzhekhanovich noted that the "balapan" program is an effective way to implement public-private partnership.
That is, to effectively and comprehensively resolve any issues related to entrepreneurship and state activities, we will be transparent in the policy of selecting professional and highly qualified specialists, the head of the region said.
at the same time, legislative initiatives were put forward.
work has begun on the construction of the facility.
In general, in the region, work is actively underway to attract foreign investors to the field of oath.
Thanks to stable revenue in resolving commercial disputes, innovative approaches, as well as success in implementing its solutions, difc courts today positions itself as the famous center of world-class legal competence. difc courts today is world-class businesses center .
For the convenience of visiting the sanatorium, the Astana-Schuchinsk autobahn is served, the airport of Kokshetau has been reconstructed.
these are individuals who use religion, people's trust for their violent actions.
institutional capacity-building, planning and non-financial support.
I think that the capital has received such a level of confidence that it is not necessary to change this discussion platform.
in this regard, the party advocates the inviolability of private property, open competition, the creation of a favorable investment climate, coordinated regional development, the promotion of innovation and exports, economic diversification, and infrastructure development.	nowadays with the acception of kazakhstan in the integration associations - the eaeu and the wto , the conditions for domestic business are changed radically .	0,32
According to the results of the forum, the participants thanked President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev for his good initiatives to convene a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions and his efforts to achieve the goals of the forum, as well as highly appreciated the declaration of the 5th congress, held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015.	the 9th iccm , under the theme  towards a middle stance culture favouring muslim societies ' development , " is being hosted by the sultanate of oman , following the expiration of two-year chairmanship of the kingdom of saudi arabia .
in the morning, more than 200 troops rose on alarm.	according to the press service of the ministry of defense , early in the morning more than 200 soldiers have been awakened by the alarm .	0,32
this document provides for conditions for joint intervention in various areas, including the work of public administration. this seminar is also part of the roadmap .
all representatives of the family grew up in love, respect for the elders.
The experience of the development of Kazakhstan as a state with above-average incomes can be actively used by island states. idriss.
Use information online or copy to the fullest extent possible.
According to the director, during the work of the center there were 30 cases of mediation in official form.
A feature of these activities was the coverage of all areas and residential areas.
in the Brazilian city of São Paulo from September 13 to 20 a.tynisbek won a silver medal in the subject "hydrogeology," k.zagparov and a.nurul. bronze medals in the nominations "general geology" and "cosmogeology."
according to the rules, you can vote for each participant in the project only once.
that is, we will turn 180 degrees so that he can work further or he has a good private owner, "said E. Dossaev.
today's political situation requires the strengthening of the security system, which must meet modern challenges.
Earlier, Aruzhan repeatedly became the winner of republican contests.
In addition, the agenda of the plenary session was amended on migration and employment in the first reading, amendments related to the work of the local police service in the second reading.
buyers and sellers wonder at what price it is better to sell in the current situation.
The heads of delegations summed up the results of the organization's work over the past period, identified promising areas of development, discussed cooperation and strengthening the sphere of economic cultural education, science and tourism, and information.
- the development of education is the criterion of modern human civilization, the main indicator of the development of society.
K. Elimbetov noted that the ENPF investment declaration has not undergone major changes compared to investment declarations, as at the personal disposal of pension funds.
in her speech, the deputy of the majilis with. Gobchkova noted that the purpose of the bill is to eliminate corruption in society, protect the rights and legitimate interests of individuals and legal entities.
As a result, agricultural land remains not involved in market turnover, "the minister said.
About a hundred girls and boys aged 8 to 13 from all over the Mangistau region came to try their gardens at the casting.
EXPO-2017 may become a point of further development, progress.
and in agriculture - drip irrigation technologies.
The implementation of investment projects for the construction of feedlots with a simultaneous content of over 3,000 copies will reduce the level of demand for feedlots of the first category of regions.
on this day, the first products arrived at the warehouse of the enterprise.
At the end of the meeting, specific instructions were given.
The congress has been one of the leading venues in the world for many years.
therefore, we are the head of state. We gathered to discuss and clarify Nazarbayev's other national plans "100 concrete steps," said the first deputy chairman of the city branch of the Nұr Otan party.
this year 163.7 thousand hectares were sown in the region.
This year, Alexander, born in 1998, got into the youth team.
pilots first performed parachute jumps to the surface of the water and worked out actions to suppress life after the flood.
this is a unique platform for professionals in the field of information security of leading Kazakhstani companies.
S. Ayimbetov noted that since 2011, at the initiative of the Head of State, concrete measures have been actively and purposefully taken in this direction, which will be aimed at Kazakhstan becoming one of the IDs.
Austrian business has a lot of experience and achievement.	also the eec delegation met with representatives of the united nations industrial development organization ( unido ) in vienna .	0,33
Recall that negotiations on accession to the WTO lasted 19 years.	but it has potential .	0,33
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, in 2012 there are 65,844 children (0-17 years old), which is 31% more than 45,118 children with registered disabilities in 2005.	dean of the school of business of the almau gulnar kurenkeyeva told about the social initiatives of the university , including the design-contest  unlimited " which helped 8 participants to receive grants for mba programs .
Also, during the award ceremony, the white company Transtelecom, which became a partner, presented participants with memorable gifts.
It should be noted that currently the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development includes 34 countries that produce more than 60% of world production.
- Today the tax policy towards agricultural producers in the country is very soft.
According to the deputy akim of the district, not all the mentioned documents allow to sell housing.
Kazakhstan offers ways to improve the existing system of attraction.
the main problem of the Almaty airport building is its territory is small, it does not correspond to the main hub of Kazakhstan. almaty airport has a problem .
The head of our state noted that "through discretion we represent Kazakhstan to the world, we represent the Kazakh people."
and public servants would be provided with public housing without the right to privatize when rotating elsewhere.
At the first military sports games, Kazakhstan was represented by eminent military athletes of the Central Sports Club of the Army of the Republic of Kazakhstan km.
only a tenth of them survived and stood there.
In this large-scale parade, on behalf of the Kazakh troops, companies of the honor guard of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part.
Significant progress in the state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan will ensure the adoption of measures to improve legislation and develop practice.
In addition, the representatives of military science of the member states of the agreement were invited to continue research work to ensure the collective security of the six countries of the organization.
today, in terms of national standards, we have 5,725 documents on this issue. today 's we have - 5725 documents .
the company produces water pumps and equipment necessary for uranium mining enterprises.
The Deputy Chairman of the Board of Diamond of the Zhamanbek is responsible for the procurement, operation of facilities and operational services.
the document should become the main document ensuring the free circulation of goods on the union market.
In the Semipalatinsk garrison from October 26 to November 14, 2015, course training is conducted with unit commanders.
The Kazakhstani internationalist soldier laid flowers at the victory monument in Minsk and the monuments to the internationalist soldiers who died in Afghanistan.
accordingly, at such a pace, limited possible volumes of state support will be increased.
consultations will also be applied in the course of these steps.
In addition, the Ministry of Investment and Development is entrusted with ensuring the full loading of projects commissioned by local executive bodies.
according to the plan of the organizers, the conference participants will evaluate the experience of Kazakhstan constitutional construction.
the share of Kazakh content in preparation for unification in Almaty increased to 53%.	there were : construction companies , specialized machinery and equipment producing companies , clothing , souvenirs and printing products and providing services .	0,33
Governor of the region Karim Kokrekbayev wished talented youth further successes and victories, handed over laptops, and teachers who prepared winning students, diplomas and valuable gifts.	governor k. kokrekbayev gave laptops to teachers and schools , and the students - diplomas and valuable gifts .	0,33
otar of Zhambyl region "about 30 servicemen of Kazakhstan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan took part in the competition among the servicemen of friendly armies.
In order to implement the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of September 29, 2014 "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Division of Powers between the Levels of State Administration of the Transport Committee" Issuing Certificates for the Right to Manage Self-Propelled Small Vessels, "the development and approval of a standard of public service and rules for certification of boatmasters for the right to operate a small vessel.
Since Kazakhstan gained independence, relations between the two countries have been strengthened.
In the late 90s, a public fund published a book in the Kazakh language in Almaty.
As the head of state stressed, in the middle of the 21st century we united with the common goal of creating prosperous states that are part of the 30 developed countries of the world.
In January-September 2015, 96848.8 thousand tons of cargo were transported by city transport (including an estimate of the volume of cargo transportation by non-transport organizations and individuals with trucks and commercial traffic), while the total cargo turnover amounted to 6068.6 million tons. of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The composition of the institute under consideration includes issues of economics, construction, domestic policy, security research, issues of national construction, social policy.
We work with you in different reports, "she said.
Therefore, we propose to adopt a law that illegal actions of minor citizens should not be in their biography after 18 years, "he said.
According to the results of trading at the shadow session, the price for $1 stabilized at the level of 255.23 tenge, while $115 million was sold. trading on the morning session has been ended .
a new base for cattle has been built, everyone is fully ready for winter.
Taraz Chemical Park "will be launched before the end of 2015.
In general, 412 materials were published on our initiative on the pages of the media.
during the negotiations, the role of ethnic Germans living in Kazakhstan and being a "living bridge" between the two countries that moved from Kazakhstan to Germany was noted.
only the main moments in the film have a characteristic unanimous rhythm and highlight a mental feeling.
fire station is equipped with heated room for accommodation of additional fire transport and for personnel of voluntary fire structure.
Following the results of the round table, the draft law "On combating corruption" was approved, measures were proposed to improve anti-corruption mechanisms.
According to the State Committee of Real Estate Cadastre under the Government of the Republic of Armenia, the results of the implementation of the decisions of the upcoming session will be announced at the meeting, as well as the implementation of a pilot project of spatial data infrastructure of the participating states will be discussed.
Speaking on behalf of her parents, the manager of the directorate of the backbone network thanked the management of the enterprise that carried out the construction and the national company that ordered it.
cheaper price indicators were affected by an increase in the number of cheap greenhouse products on sale and saturation of the market with products.
To date, a number of works have been carried out, three types of 4 missiles using heptyl have been excluded.
during the visit, the mayor instructed to review the organization of the children's preschool space, taking into account the principles of ergonomics.
but none of my blood came to her.
the place of metallurgists in the Kazakh corporation is of particular importance.
The purpose of the event is to inform foreign investors about the opportunities and prospects for Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO.
Representatives of the company expressed readiness to implement a concession plan for the construction of bridges through a multidisciplinary city hospital and a bay reservoir with 300 seats.
this medal is awarded to persons of pre-retirement age who have achieved high results in their labor path.
At the meeting of the council, a number of issues related to the provision of international rail transport were considered.
The Majilis adopted a bill related to the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement on the Accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty of May 29, 2014.
During the meeting, he listened to the needs of the farmers and wished them a warm harvest.
The press conference will be attended by the Director of the Department of Public Service and Corruption Prevention of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption Anarbek Karashev and the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the center plans to use teaching aids.
Despite the fact that the tasks set for participants in the competition in the active phase were more difficult than previous tasks, each team showed good results.
these changes are expected to have a positive impact on entrepreneurship.
In his speech deputy akim of Sandyktau region Vasily Gorokhvodatsky noted historical importance of creation of Kazakh khanate.
480 components are required in the area.
classrooms of a new type of school, assembly hall, library, study rooms.
Kyzylzharma underground reservoir is high-quality, clean.
in particular, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan has strengthened the foundations of statehood and created conditions for the development of civil society.
In addition, as observers, a delegation of aeronautical institutions of Estonian and Lithuanian countries takes part in the meeting.
I worked in biathlon for many years, including in Russia under the Soviet Union.
the composition of the delegation today was a clear indication of that.
at the same time, B.Baibek noted that only trusting close interaction of the state apparatus, business and society is the basis of a stable state, which can withstand any challenges.
Kazakhstanis will be able to get acquainted with the projects that reached the final of the competition on the official website of the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of Kazakhstan).	their activities are aimed at the development of the social security system .	0,34
the administrative center of Nauryzbay district is located in the shugyl microdistrict, all state bodies are concentrated here.	the administrative center of nauryzbay district would be shugyla village .	0,34
The average price of housing and communal services payments is 5-7% of wages, while remakes allocate 16% from the budget, Greeks - 15-20%, Americans - 13%.	there , the share of payment for utility services is an average of 5-7 % of the average wage .	0,34
such a situation was due to a change in the system of registration of criminal offences in the country and not to the majority of criminal acts.	this figure is caused by the changed accounting system of criminal offenses and not by worsening of crime situation .	0,34
a model of a monument to an outstanding commander, a historical figure of the Sultan, who ruled in the Egyptian country for 17 years, North African-style Mamluk pistols decorated with silver; this year , the national museum provides a great project " kazakhstan through the centuries . "
the story tells about the happy and amazing life path of Nursultan Nazarbayev from a simple rural child to the title of head of state and world-class politician.
Following the negotiations, a number of bilateral documents were signed with the participation of k.masima.
thus, foreign tourists were able to freely enter tourist facilities located in the border zone without obtaining a special permit.
Of the total number of winners, 10 projects are implemented at their own expense, 25 projects are implemented with the help of sponsors and provided funds, 28 on the basis of a state social order.
The Secretary of State drew the attention of state bodies to the need to develop additional organizational and legal mechanisms to ensure transparency in decision-making in the field of land relations, to expand the provision of public services to the population in electronic format as a whole.
now we propose to start with 2-3 projects to understand how we will proceed.
This is one of the largest plants in Central Asia with a capacity of 1200 thousand tons of cement per year, and for 10 months of this year 1258 and 8 thousand tons of cement.
regions using religion to provoke conflicts among the population.
this Olympiad is one of the main activities of the international organization of education in the sciences of earth.
78 students received 120 points, and the graduate of Lyceum No. 90 anastasia Yakovleva received an absolute result - 125 points.
At one time, my parents taught me at a special boarding school for blind children in Tbilisi.
He also noted that in modern difficult conditions, the authorities face large-scale tasks aimed at implementing institutional reforms proclaimed by the head of state and ensuring the strengthening of Kazakhstan's statehood.
The work on communication promotion of expo should be continued.	the secretary general has added that there is a necessity to strengthen the information campaign , not only internationally , but also nationally .	0,34
however, landscaping is planned around the highway, we are actively participating in the construction of the green belt "Western Europe-Western China."
an individual entrepreneur issued a loan through Bank Credit Center JSC and opened the first unprecedented children's entertainment center in the Karmakshinsky district.
I think this trend will still be.
WTO membership is a victory for all of Kazakhstan.
That is, engineering adapts to the situation in the economy and recovers, "he said.
Speaking about inter-parliamentary cooperation, the parties noted the importance of strengthening cooperation through relevant committees.
He expressed confidence that in the future he will invest in Almaty region, where production and industry are developing, and implement joint projects in entrepreneurship.
In 2013 and 2014, the school produced 55 and 64 poisons, respectively.
the senior coach of the region in kayaking and canoeing mukhitdin mierbeks and the coach of Diana Khaziev prepared for the competition of athletes.
In addition, during the visit, the Kazakh delegation visited the Singapore Aviation Academy and held a meeting with the director of the academy to discuss cooperation in training and improving the qualifications of specialists in the aviation industry of Kazakhstan and the aviation administration.
the design and estimate documentation of the boarding school has been prepared at the expense of extrabudgetary funds, construction work has begun.
By the end of the third week, entrepreneurs had successfully defended their projects.
in his speech, the ambassador shared Koblandin's opinion that the book contains excerpts from speeches, articles and reports of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will not only reveal the worldview of the statesman and politician, but also reveal the modern image of Kazakhstan as a whole.
Deputy akim of the region took part in the opening ceremony of the modern sports school for 130 people.
Processions were held along the main streets of the village.
thirdly, providing the international financial center "Capital" with the opportunity to invest legalized money without paying a fee.
According to the Governor's Office, this year a good grain harvest is expected throughout the region.
According to the deputy, the company will be able to hire people with disabilities, which will solve the problem of an affordable environment for these categories.
It should be noted that the country's manufacturing industry is growing faster than the traditional mining industry.
a resident of Saryagash makpal turlybekova took part in a public reception through video conferencing.
according to the results of the music competition, a vote was held among the audience.
You are only required to carry out work in a timely manner, "said the head of the region.
additional volumes, capacities and industrial-innovative development programs.
The increased volume of cement imported from Iran at low prices significantly affects the competitiveness of the products of Kazakhstani consumers and increases the risk of causing serious damage to the entire domestic cement industry.
According to the senator, in accordance with the iimbd program, the need to increase internships in the main technical, engineering, agro-industrial sectors is recognized.
work has also begun on the oil and gas project "expansion of the Kashagan field."
applicant countries - IOC members from Kazakhstan and China - did not participate in the vote.
they threw Alexander circles, skied on thin ice, and also provided for an object through the sleeves of a fire extinguisher.
intra-corporate transfers are proposed to be carried out outside the quota on the basis of preferential conditions, preferential conditions of free permission of categories 2 and 3, reducing the requirements for the maintenance of local personnel to 50%, as well as in the first category (managers and their deputies).
establishing business relations with the Czech State and intensifying relations between the two countries.
the medical institution is not working due to the lack of permits, although to date it has been open for three months.
one of them received state support.
senators, s. carpenters, s. zhaksybekov, a.k. knots, B. elamanov.
we are grateful to Serbia's business group.
Magate is the owner of uranium stored in a bank, and materials are under the legal control of the magate. the iaea will be the owner of the uranium at the bank .
There are also legislative provisions for the mandatory application of national road transport standards to ensure the implementation of standards.
First, representatives of the delegation visited the central hospital to see how the district is undergoing changes in the field of health care, and asked patients about the state of patients.
In turn, the head of the region, Danial Akhmetov, instructed to prepare a priority action plan together with the relevant departments by the end of the week.
I want to pay tribute to the wise leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has led Kazakhstan since independence.
Kazakhstan is the initiator and leader of the global anti-nuclear movement, to which it has a moral right.
The Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank have ratified the agreement totaling more than 26 million dollars.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO provides for wide opportunities to create joint ventures, conduct joint research, exchange intellectual property objects, attract new technologies and invest in various sectors of the economy.
It is planned that a poultry farm for the production of 30 thousand tons of meat products per year will be built in the Urdzhar district.
During the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 389 facilities were subject to privatization.
A resident of Zharkent city was recognized as the winner of the semi-final in Almaty region.	it was attended by 100 children from different regions and towns .	0,35
There is still much work to be done.	now the support measures provided by the state must comply with the international rules .	0,35
Modernization of the judicial system would enhance the importance and role of the Supreme Court as the highest court of cassation.
That is, the document takes into account the real situation in the communal sphere.
the bike ride began in the village of Tasbaget, passed along Silk Road Street through Abaya Avenue and ended in the central square.
note that the period of transition from the classical to the romantic style was interesting and innovative, which especially influenced the birth of new compositions.
The Kazakh diplomat noted that all the attributes of statehood, as well as the political and administrative structure, financial reforms, laws, laws of the khans, from ancient times passed to the Turkic-Mongolian empire, then to the golden horde, and then to the Kazakh khanate. about Nazarbayev's proposal to call Kazakhstan "the country of the great steppe" informed the audience.
Industry specialists work in several areas related to the protection of children's rights. as part of the prevention of violence against children in east kazakhstan region governor 's office together with the un fund ( unicef ) in kazakhstan have realized a pilot project to prevent and control violence .
As follows from the message, the general manager of the Asian badminton federation noted that the tournament, organized in chui ven eagle, was very successful.
now a large number of money market services are carried out by buying securities.
however, children could not fully exercise their legal right on their own, because of the specificity of their youth.
traditionally, the best pavilions in the nominations will be determined and awarded as part of the results of the international exhibition of expo.
In recent years, Kazakhstan has successfully developed a geological movement among children and adolescents.
In the initeration exposition installed in the historical park, there is a feeling that the reconstruction sites are held "at the rabbit fair."
I think that through direct elections of residents, it is necessary to achieve the election of akims so that the akim reports.
also drew attention to the possibility of the agency's participation in the international exhibition expo 2017 as part of the Malaysian complex.
The master plan plans to build new cultural facilities, in particular theaters, a circus, and a zoo.
The competence of the voluntary fire brigade includes 3 fire engine comps in the amount of 60 units of special equipment equipped to extinguish fires in the area.
Sr. Noted that in Kazakhstan the issue of relations with Hungary is considered in the context of strategic partnership with the European Union, which is the largest trade, economic and investment partner of our country.
our team this year will be the fourth on green tanks.
Korea is a nation in Asia that we have learned.
including civil servants of corps "a," deputies of parliament, judges talk about their income and expenses, "said Nurlan Yermekbayev.
Among the small vocalists, the jury chose a 13-year-old resident of the village of Shortanda Akmola.
As a result, 23 kg of gold was obtained.
this is a little more than the average level of perennial.
In our plan is the question of creating an additional poultry farm for 1000 heads of egg poultry on the territory of the farm, laid the foundation of the main building, there is little left!
the joint strength of the prosecutor's office laid the foundation for the general functioning of the shu.
the main goal of this privatization is to give a new impetus to the development of the private sector. the main task of the current privatization is to give impetus to further development of the private sector of the country through the transition of state assets to a more efficient owner .
Today, 110 heads of universal - maximum cattle have been acquired.
in the district center, where his childhood passed, a natural mouse known to the western Kazakhstani has long existed.
There are 4 rotundas, a boat station and parking are equipped.
However, according to him, two legislative projects are envisaged for the legislative framework.
On one of the training days, our soldiers took part in a full operation to search for mines at sea.
including the application of the Code of Administrative Offenses in the new version, tax, copyright, housing legislation, as well as legislation regulating bankruptcy regulation and restoration of moral costs.
also ensures the correct implementation of the constitution and constitutional legislation, "said the speaker.
Currently, the boiler unit of station No. 5 and the current repair of station No. 6 are being overhauled.
Note that the height of the monument dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is 30 meters.
First of all, it is necessary to increase the volume of Kazakh collateral and ensure guaranteed orders.
tree planting was organized in all rural districts of the city.
The document is aimed at streamlining barriers to the trade in alcoholic beverages between the countries of the union and tracking legal rules, the press service of the EEC reports.
Within its framework, active work is underway to further expand the trade partnership between the two countries.
According to the head of the department, the administrative system in force in the country does not allow ensuring effective control over the income and sources of origin of property of all individuals.
After the meeting, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev gave an interview to journalists and spoke about the issues under discussion.
Last year, with a toyota of $45 million, we began assembling toyota cars in Kostanay.
All participants of one competition are students of school-gymnasium No. 4 named after Dzhabayev in the capital.
It is noted that the decision will allow using the general method when classifying this product in the territory of the EAEU member states.
The folk art of a volunteer is very popular with lovers of sculpture of the post-Soviet space.
applying law in practice, the courts decide the fate of a person, the attitude of citizens and the public to state institutions directly or indirectly affect the financial and economic situation of the state, the social situation of society and other areas of communication, "he said.
that is, military uniforms, organizational structure, order of life in military discipline.
The leadership of the fire garrison located in the regional center of Pavlodar is involved in fire and tactical training.
According to him, this bill does not require expenses from the republican and local budgets.
at the same time, all available documents are posted on the website with the address of the construction site and with permits.
Recall that the company has been monitoring prices since 2003.
I am pleased that our efforts will be aimed at directly improving the lives of people.
He noted that the share of fc in the country reached 107.5%.
guests highly appreciated the national color, enjoyed the Kazakh national taste, and also took part in the solemn ceremony of the traditional Kazakh table.
This indicates the holding of Afghan international events in the capital.
the winners were awarded diplomas and a cup, the rest of the participants were awarded letters of thanks.
During the fair, young graduates will be able to get the necessary information on vacancies and get a job in accordance with their diplomas.
since the independence of the State under your leadership, our relationship has deepened and expanded.	the afghan president has also stressed the importance of cooperation in the fight against terrorism .	0,36
presidential testing will take place at the central stadium named after Disappointments in Astana.
The event will be attended by winners of the Grand Prix of the international competition and other famous artists of Kazakh pop.
The issue of financing the purchase and delivery of textbooks has been fully resolved in Akmola region.
In addition, the protocol was amended to create a mechanism for the preferential delivery of funds for emergency rescue operations for disaster management.
the heating season goes evenly, we connect with the regions, analyze the situation daily.
in addition, peasants are provided with loans in tenge and a preferential maturity of the principal up to two years.
A bill on ratification of an agreement between Kazakhstan and the world health organization on opening a geographically remote office of the world health organization for primary health care in Almaty is submitted to the plenary session of the chamber.
After the completion of the program for the accelerated development of the silicon steppe of the US state, startup teams will take part in the first global innovation congress techconnect.tec.
16 applications for privatization of housing facilities worth 635.4 million tenge were received on privatization of property outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
such inspections would be a further step in improving the field skills of troops.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan created under the President of Kazakhstan has constitutional status, the consultative and advisory body today is the body for reviving the languages ​ ​ and culture of the peoples inhabiting our republic, which becomes an instrument of direct communication between the president and society, the expert noted.
The main objective of the programme is to assess the level of services provided.
the architect of the monument is Ivan Sedletsky.
The head of state instructed to turn Kazakhstan into the largest regional country for the export of meat and dairy products.
so, 3259 tons of technical, 34,350 tons of household coal were delivered.
In his speech, the head of state noted that the capital of the country, which is only 17 years old, already has a rich and glorious history.
During a visit to the palace of schoolchildren, projects of the career guidance block "my profession" were presented.
Perhaps in a year or two we will remember that we survived the day in a good period.
this will lead to the collapse of states and societies.
in addition, the abbot captured high speeds and the dominant territories of Iraq and Syria.
in the square square there took place all fights.
In addition, Kazakhstan and Japan intend to cooperate in the training of qualified industry specialists.
The 55 steps of the National Plan noted the involvement of at least 55 people in the manufacturing industry.
today's conference considered the stages of the formation of Kazakh statehood, discussed and outlined the stages before the initiative of Kazakh culture and the creation of the Kazakh khanate. today 's conference highlights the stages of development of kazakh statehood .
Answering a question from journalists, the adviser to the first deputy chairman of the party said that in connection with the aforementioned issue, the "crown" public council under the party provides for sending a letter of recommendation to the regions.
they get acquainted with new facts about the life and work of the great poet.
He also noted that in the coming autumn months it is planned to hold a republican seminar on the protection of children's rights in the teenage city.
the ceremony was attended by members of the Spanish families of former prisoners and 12 people consisting of project participants.
a feature of diving with paarashut is that fighters must not only fulfill the requirements for jumping to a dry place, but also be ready to swim after jumping.
this is a different scale for Kazakhstan, "the director of the Committee of Applications Andrei hooks said at a briefing.
In September 2015, an agreement was reached to hold a second meeting of experts to agree on a draft agreement in Beijing.
women in labor gave birth to the sixth, and now the seventh.
Among the 30 most competitive countries in the world were developed countries that are members of the eida.
Cambrian patrols are one of the most difficult and status competitions comparable to selection for the special forces.
this will allow moving vehicles as part of the customs border with a single formal passport, "said the Vice Minister of Investment and Development of Alberta Rau.
it is, of course, a coincidence, but it is very important.
we want to support the UN initiative to celebrate the closing day of the Semipalatinsk landfill, "he said.
Also, in order to further improve the activities of online centers opened in rural libraries, training seminars are held for library staff and methodological assistance is provided.
In his speech, the gateman of the South Moravian region proposed to open Czech language departments in universities and colleges of the region and expressed his readiness to receive a delegation in the Czech Republic led by the akim of Akmola region.
During the speech, issues of coordination of the synergistic program "one belt - one road" with the People's Republic of China within the framework of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol" were discussed.
a total of about 30 liters of blood were handed over.
most of the requests for types of innovation came from producers of productive and tender innovations.
because now there is a transition from inefficient energy to efficient, which negatively affects the environment.
the total developed equipment is 83%, including motor graders (28 pcs), combined road vehicles (52 pcs), loaders (6 pcs), screw rotors (29 pcs) and tractors (20 pcs).
As part of the forum, the anthem of the youth of the region was presented, as well as tribute was given to young specialists who during the year proved to be good specialists.
He also noted that it is very hot to come to Kazakhstan, it is scheduled for September 21-25.
add your share to him with your friends.
He also noted that it is planned to extend the procedure for legalizing property until December 31, 2016.
in the first reading, it is planned to discuss the draft amendments and additions to the land code.
At the moment, we have agreed on one.	therefore , we have proposed to conclude three agreements in the field of criminal prosecution .	0,36
In the race at a distance of 1 thousand 800 meters, a kayaker from the city of Aktobe won bronze.	first place was won by the participant from aktobe .	0,36
About 200 small artists were awarded thanks for their proximity to their multi-colored creative works. more than 200 children have pleased residents and visitors by their colorful creativity .
in this matter it was necessary to act competently, which is exactly what the entrepreneur did.
the cave is currently a favorite place for schoolchildren.
Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
Then we will lay the way to Kostanay, Ural, Ural and rehabilitation cities.	he also said that the next town is kostanay .	0,36
a great interest of the population in opening their own business and microcredit.	people open their own businesses and take microcredit .	0,36
this rule provides applicants with the opportunity to first familiarize themselves with the technical requirements and, if there are comments on them, to submit an application for their elimination.	this method solves the problems of all the competitions , where supplier selection will be held .	0,36
the event was attended by German residents, literary scholars who were at the origins of the creation of the Kazakh library "Leonard Kosut and Christina Lichtenfeld.
The press conference will be attended by Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Yermek Kusherbayev and Director of the Department for Processing and Production of Livestock Products Erkebulan Akhmetov.
in the Senate, he made a report on the bill "On the ratification of the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters."
Governor of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region took part in the opening ceremony of the complex.
This year it is planned to commission one residential building on Kappasbay batyr street.
I'm sure most of you took your profession as life's.
a. Today, the Bimendina addressed an important meeting to discuss the contribution of women to the Pao Assembly.
in accordance with this protocol, a mechanism for the preferential delivery of funds for emergency rescue operations in disaster prevention and response is being developed.
To date, the holding has drawn up a special plan as part of legalization.
The solemn event began with the burabai sports complex.
Currently, most of the business processes of companies are carried out on the information site.
this seminar will be continued: it is planned to train curators and students of Nazarbayev intellectual schools.
it was a platform for free dialogue between the Kazakh business community and Arab investors.
Today, the III Forum of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan is taking place.
because the direct communication of the official with the recipient of the services is reduced or completely destroyed.
in addition, n. As Yermekbayev noted, it is necessary to strengthen ties in the areas of criminal legal cooperation.
The new economic policy is the way to the future.
Recall, on September 30, 2015, the World Economic Forum (wef) published an annual report on global competitiveness for 2015-2016.
Deputy Governor of the region Abdrakhimov congratulated the participants and wished the participants of the competition good luck.
In addition, businessmen applied to every tenth workplace with a request to take into account the issue of obtaining citizens with disabilities.
Another problem is the depth of oil refining.
Mediation around the world began in the 70s of the 20th century.
Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom Uak noted that diversification of production and entry into all parts of the nuclear fuel cycle, as well as increasing efficiency, carrying out the transformation of the company, including extractive enterprises, are among the main priorities of the development strategy.
these medical facilities are equipped with all necessary equipment to provide quality and accessible medical services.
therefore, bringing this national upbringing to the younger generation is our sacred duty.
According to the Statistics Agency of Kazakhstan, the share of cotton in the region increased by 17.1%, while in 2013 it amounted to 12.1%.
Chairman of the plenary session of Tajikistan Shukurzhon Zukhurov during the meeting with the speaker of the meeting drew attention to the strategic nature of relations between the two countries.
in particular, grant financing of commercialization projects from budget funds, including co-financing of business.
Participants of the competition were awarded special diplomas and valuable gifts from the organizers.
Noting the huge contribution of Nazarbayev to the development of independent Kazakhstan, the President of Kazakhstan noted that thanks to his balanced policy, our country was able to become one of the leading countries in such a short time.
flight safety classes were held with the crews.
The company, created as part of the industrialization map, is able to produce greenhouse structures on an area of ​ ​ 376 hectares per year.
two kindergartens are planned to be launched before the end of July.
we started this system, this system was presented at the exhibition. we have demonstrated this system at the exhibition ( xiv international conference of the information and communication technology in social security on the topic " on standards and common solutions in the field of ict for social security " ) .
the signing of memoranda is aimed at the development of productive entrepreneurship and socio-economic development of the region.
According to the minister, work on beer processing has been intensified in the Czech Republic, along with meat and dairy products.
studying history, referring to ancient manuscripts and books, recording in libraries with relics is impossible without voluntary and analytical work. one of the main institutional reforms is to form nation of common future .
The head of the Azerbaijani defense department, Colonel General Yakir Hasanov, noted the difficult interaction in the Caspian Sea.
In honor of this significant holiday, the Nұr Otan party, the national association of sports, the Ministry of Culture and Sports intend to hold the Altyn Tulpar republican tournament and contribute.
In turn, K.Rasulzade highly appreciated the level of Kazakh-Tajik cooperation and suggested further development of mutually beneficial partnership across the entire spectrum of interstate relations.
that's very good news.	the pm noted that the best things happen in hard times .	0,37
for example, developers building such residential buildings should have experience for at least three years, for the past two years he has held break-even positions.	then , the fund evaluates the submitted documents and makes the decision .	0,37
among them, Kazakhstan as the first Central Asian state to accede to the convention.	parties to the convention are the united states , brazil , canada , costa rica , mexico , saudi arabia , uruguay , czech republic , chile and other countries .	0,37
the financing by the united Arab emirates of a social project, such as the construction of a new educational institution in the capital, indicates the high partnership that has developed between the two countries.
Today, the executive secretary is responsible for the management of the state body.
processing of oilseeds establishes long-term and constant consumption of raw materials.	among these 15 projects , three projects include oilseed processing projects with a total capacity of more than 1.2 million tons .	0,37
for the countries of Eurasia, the revival of the economy of the great silk road at the modern level is important.	it is also important to revive the silk road .	0,37
On the same day, a meeting was held with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs R.Zhoshybayev.	a. al jarman expressed the readiness to sign the intergovernmental agreement with kazakhstan on stimulaiton and mutual protection of investments .	0,37
the second phase involves the construction of 48 chicken hides and the purchase of incubators, avian furs and auxiliary plants for a poultry processing plant.	commissioning of the second stage ( 60 tons of live weight per year ) is scheduled for june 2019 .	0,37
many Silk Road musicians. "
if the attitude towards entrepreneurs is maintained correctly, entrepreneurs also try to work correctly.
tractor production increased by 19.1%.
Currently, the Talgar plant provides its products not only to residents of the region, but also to the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Ministry of Defense of Kyrgyzstan and private companies.
"Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "of December 14, 2012 - the political course of the state."
therefore, the Republic of Kazakhstan asks local authorities to increase responsibility.
our main city gave impetus to the development of an entire country.
the central heraldic element of the state coat of arms is the image of a shanyrak (upper domed part of the yurt) within a blue color.
This year, more than 7 thousand graduates from 5 thousand in the whole region took part in it.
In the face of current trends, the EAO is becoming a key element in the process of modernizing the great silk road as a new phase of complementary cooperation between the West and the East. in the light of current issues , the eaeu has become a key link reviving the great silk road between east and west .
We have already shipped more than 3 thousand cubic meters of products, the shipment of products continues.	there are dozens of such examples : small and large orders .	0,37
It is in the city of Almaty in the sports park "People" that the futsal championship will be held among eight teams consisting of military personnel of local military administration bodies associated with the 20th anniversary of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
of course, I overestimate.
More than 20 working group meetings were held.
the amount of the loan for them is 20 million tenge, the interest rate is 7% per annum.
The awarding ceremony will end with a concert with the participation of Kazakhstan pop stars.
First of all, I congratulate you and the entire Kazakh people on the fact that it was possible to create a successful state, which you noted at one of the meetings.
The head of the region paid special attention to the project for the construction of a bridge across the bay reservoir.
One of the main tasks of the event is to form a constructive interaction between law enforcement agencies and civil society in countering violent extremism.
Kostanay and the region allocated 14 million tenge for housing construction and commissioning of more than 532 thousand square meters of rental housing.
as a result of any work of emergency authorities and modern equipment, it will be possible to prevent a large number of fires.
in the decisive battle against the Dzungars, Kazakh heroes won a huge victory, "said the art critic of the Palace of Independence saina Azhigalieva in an exclusive interview with a correspondent of the strategy2050.kz news agency.
elmira zaripova said that a working trip to Kazakhstan took place as part of the presentation of the international worldskills competition championship, aimed at improving professional skills, dedicated to holding in October 2019.
In addition, Galina expressed dissatisfaction with the activities of a local private notary.
As part of the jury of the final of the turkvizyon-2015 national selection, the head of the culture department of the city of Astana bulat mazhagulov, singer, winner of the international turkvizyon-2014 turkvizyon song contest Zhanar dugalova, dusen dream soloist, composer renat gaisin, poet Kalkaman sarin, white general producer of the Khabar Agency ar Rat Rinat duimanate.
as the leader himself saw each case, checked it and made sure of its reliability.
Following the results of the seminar, proposals will be developed to improve legislation in this area.
Thus, the book clearly reflects the labor path of the head of state and details the life of the future president of the country and his ways to rise to political positions recognized by the world.
In the information of the head of the financial control inspection department of Karaganda region b.aubakirov.
today the company's products are not exported.
that is, the current value of tenge is determined by the market itself depending on demand, "said K. Kelimbetov.
He noted that Kazakhstan is a comparative policy of studying the history of the state and the acting head of the department of Eurasia Nikolai Lapin noted a wide range of participants in this conference.
the development of outer space is a modern method for the development of civilization, our country is one of the largest states in the space industry.
The pavilion of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the world exhibition expo milano 2015 was visited daily by about 5,000 people.
(i technical category, 4 strips, with asphalt concrete pavement).
The construction of the kindergarten "Children's Planet" and the kindergarten "Baldauren" as part of a public-private partnership is carried out by state order.
the cost of installation is reduced if the length of the gas pipeline attracted to the project house is less than 25 meters, and, for example, the length of the pipeline is 30 or 40 meters, respectively, the price increases.
the correct application of pump therapy is also monitored.
The basis of the state language policy in full support of the Kazakh language is the decisive stage of the state development program for 2011-2020.
in Kokshetau, Naufal Shanyrak LLP plans to implement a project to provide services and care for the elderly and disabled related to the provision and provision of accommodation.
During the conversation, the parties noted the dynamic and multifaceted development of Kazakh-Egyptian relations.
however, we systematized to form a clear understanding from them, and put up about 200, "said K. Aktaeva.
last year, it amounted to about $3.29 billion.
The Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Belarus said that she highly appreciated the introduction and use of modern information technologies in the judicial system of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
In addition, the holding of the first bilateral company-tactical anti-terrorist exercises in the territory of our states in September-October of this year will increase the level of interaction and skills of our units in joint response to security threats.
to that end, the draft document had been submitted for public discussion.
housing was sent to immigrants from urban and Krasnogorsk settlements.
his numerous diaries and letters, photographs, information about traditions testify to the rich history of the great steppe.
In addition, the crews of Kazakhstan surface warships and Marine Corps units are conducting active exercises in other areas of the upcoming competition.
By the end of this year, it is planned to bring the number of tickets to 35-40, it is planned to win more than 100 tickets to the Olympics in 27 sports, "said S. Musaybekov.
The draft new labor code intensifies the development of entrepreneurship, the labor market, and the attraction of foreign investors.	this type of attraction of foreign labor will be brought into line with the global standards .	0,38
in the Karaganda-Abai part, to attract the attention of drivers, a tow truck with cars after the accident was put up for viewing.	particular attention was paid to drivers of passenger cars and vans that do not observe speed limits .	0,38
now they only have to get acquainted with all the details of almost complex military affairs, but it is possible that among them will be future company commanders, battalions and chief sergeants of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	now they just have to learn to practice all the subtleties of difficult military affairs .	0,38
At a distance of 3000 meters, she took third place.	in the competition on 3,000 meters among girls aigul ataliyeva won the third placement .	0,38
At the opening of the event Governor of East Kazakhstan region Danial Akhmetov wished the participants success.	governor of the region danial akhmetov took part in the opening ceremony and congratulated everyone on the opening of the championship .	0,38
the main goal of the bill is to eliminate corruption in society by improving legislation in the field of combating corruption, protecting the rights and legitimate interests of individuals and legal entities.	the bill is aimed at legal regulation of public relations in the sphere of anti-corruption and implementation of the anti-corruption policy .	0,38
I am sure that the Eurasian Union will become the union of Europe and Asia.	we are mutually supportive .	0,38
The head of the region instructed to complete the repair plan within a week, taking into account socially significant roads.	priority includes section osinovsky pass to bukhtarma village .	0,38
As the UN administrator noted, the chosen topic is important for the whole world and is Kazakhstan's contribution to this area.	the reps of undp noted that the topic is close to the un initiative .	0,38
I am grateful to the leadership of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for fruitful cooperation, "the Governor of the region stressed at the time of signing the agreement in Astana
Taking into account the development of infrastructure, roads and carriers until 2020, full (100%) coverage of settlements will be ensured by regular bus services, for which constantly new routes will be opened.
there is a workshop for the restoration of valuable exhibits and special rooms for storing books.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lebanon praised the level of bilateral relations and expressed confidence in their further development.
young artists made drawings and identified the best works that determine citizenship of independence.
At the end of the seminar, participants will be awarded special certificates of successful completion of training.
The aim of the project is to train unemployed youth and citizens with disabilities between the ages of 18 and 35 to use IT technologies to improve their work and competitiveness.
turquision unites Turkic-speaking countries.
Since July 1, this project has been implemented in all regions of the republic.
there are more and more those who seek to live here, to repel their future here.
As of July 1, 2015, the number of registered unemployed in the labor market amounted to 1,195.
today our citizens perform great feats under the blue flag of Kazakhstan.
the sale of a medium-sized business creates conditions for access to finished business, "he explained.
At the opening ceremony of this exhibition, the mayor of the city noted that this event is of great importance for the aksaray.
certification in the armed forces of Kazakhstan is mandatory once every three years.
The signing of the above memoranda will affect the development of mining and engineering.
the geography of procurement is very extensive, but high interest was shown in Almaty and Aktobe.
international freight transport between Kazakhstan and Iran is carried out through a pass belonging to one transport.
thus, according to the results of two exercises, the faina won a bronze medal.
basic sergeant course, platoon sergeant, company sergeant, battalion sergeant and brigade sergeant courses.
At the same time, being in orbit, a.ambets will conduct a number of tests for Kazakhstan science.
It is in this area that the construction of the international exhibition Expo-2017 is ongoing.
from schoolchildren to large enterprises, various categories of inventors and innovators can participate in the competition.
Cooperation within the framework of this memorandum will make it possible to understand the process of laws and courts of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
Agreement on the implementation of the project for the construction of a school with 1,200 seats in the Nauryzbay district.
citizens leading the State should make efforts to ensure that the legal foundation was solid.
In doing so, the requesting party will accept, upon application to its territory, any person who fails or has ceased to comply with the conditions of entry, stay or residence in the territory of the requesting party.
in addition, administrative liability is provided in accordance with the legislation of the state in which the car is declared.
This year, 1 thousand 556 citizens will complete their studies, 23 of them are Karaganda.
Investments and taxes in the parent industry will also be increased, "the minister said.
During the exchange of views with international experts of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, the parties discussed the need for strict supervision of the regulations for the preservation of historical monuments during construction work in the area of ​ ​ the Hazet Sultan Museum Reserve.
The Bill amends and supplements a number of legislation to fill gaps in existing legislation.
Not our first meeting with the President of Serbia, we met on international belts.
residents and guests of Kokshetau, active youth, civil servants took part in the bike ride
with full combat equipment, a warrior covers a distance of ten to one hundred kilometers.	during the march the fighters will face prearranged gangs .	0,38
It is worth noting that the project began to be implemented as part of financial support for the Global Environment Facility. one of the new challenges is to ensure the sustainability in all settlements .
According to the regional Governor's Office, the Abai readings were organized as a literary contest, topical questions were posed on the essay, poem and continued with "black words."
retail trade turnover of markets and individual entrepreneurs accounts for 65.7% of the total trade turnover.
at the same time, priority was given to small and medium-sized businesses, implemented under an agreement on three GSm per hand.
Recall that in 2014, Kazakhstan and Hungary signed a memorandum on the creation of a joint venture to introduce a new toll system on national roads.
only in the first half of this year, about 4.2 million users were registered on the e-government portal.
this will allow an examination, including in criminal proceedings, "he said.
The possibility of participation of experts of the British agency in the process of improving the accreditation system of higher educational institutions in Kazakhstan was also discussed.
competitions were held in accordance with government-approved rules.
the issue of improving citizens' access to justice has always been left out of the head of State's attention.
The unique complex in the country is a universal training base for water and rowing sports.
at the Universiade, Kazakhstan took 11th place in the team event.
The family that won the national competition is a vivid example of the life of a generation.
After four years of work of the ministry and the department of the magate secretariat, all documents for the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium were agreed. after four years of hard work , we have finally agreed the main documents to establish the leu bank .
From July 1, 2017, upon reaching the retirement age, it is planned to assign basic pension payments depending on the length of service of participation in the pension system.
and on the new alley it is planned to write the names of workers of the North Kazakhstan rear.
It is noted that the upcoming meeting will discuss about 10 issues of cooperation in the field of education.
Members of the faction of the Nұr Otan party discussed anti-corruption issues as part of the developed bill "On Combating Corruption."
this evening, the conductor will be with the honored figure of Kazakhstan maestro muhitdinov.
At the end of the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting noted that the 13th meeting of the Committee on Parliamentary Cooperation will give a new impetus to strengthening Kazakh-European cooperation, as well as inter-parliamentary relations and wished good luck in the work of the meeting.
however, our cooperation to date has not yet been fully realized.
first of all, this depends on the state of the oil market, which has been repeatedly talked about.
Summing up the results of the hardware meeting, the head of the region, Nurmukhambet Abdibekov, noted that together with many problems we have achievements that we can fill.
It is worth noting that the number of students studying in seven schools based on the university increased by 2800 people.
In order to improve the efficiency of servicing entrepreneurs in Aktau, a memorandum of cooperation was signed at the beginning of the year between the Mangistau regional branch of the Development Foundation and the Mangistau regional center for public services (hereinafter - the Central Education Center).
do not suit any country that works like this.
on the balance of gelios chs pf there is a separate railway, 1468 m long, Pavlodar-Severny station is served.
in this regard, the main objective of the bill is to ensure the rational and effective use of agricultural land.
According to the organizers, each driver faces the most tragic consequences due to his vigilance or disregard for the rules.
According to the organizers, each driver faces the most tragic consequences due to his vigilance or disregard for the rules.
In 2014, the paid family was allocated land for the construction of a family institution for an orphanage.
the reduction of compulsory high school subjects includes three new subjects and four more mandatory subjects.
In general, the group has about 1000 people who do not participate in baiga, not in Thai competitions.
operas of great composers a. Zhubanova and l. wrote khami on the libretto classic of Kazakh literature mukhtar auezov.
Currently, a bill has been developed to amend and supplement legislation on migration and employment, "he said.
an analysis of the work of rural areas during the past flood period was carried out, examples of engineering protection, evacuation carried out by local executive bodies together with the TJ department and its units were considered.
the current building was put into operation for the population with such a noble goal.	the party branch is to update the work of counseling office , this agency should solve all the problems under the principle of work of public service centers ,  the mayor stressed .
military personnel had to demonstrate maximum skills and skills in the placement of personnel on the ship, compliance with the rules for protecting the raid service and the operation of technical means in the struggle of the ship for survivability, as well as maintaining the integrity and readiness of ship anchor, traction and loading devices.
First of all, we pay special attention to the prevention of corruption situations.	for their implementation are allocated a lot of money , which should not be used in the wrong line ,  - said the head of department of the agency for civil service affairs and combating corruption on ekr galymbek dosanov .
Recall that in Kazakhstan it is necessary to conduct a property inventory of about 29 thousand infrastructure objects.
The event was attended by members of the Parliament of Mongolia, representatives of ministries and local departments, the diplomatic corps and international organizations, the Kazakh diaspora, as well as representatives of scientific and business circles.
on the Kapchagai-Taldykorgan highway, work is underway on 6 sections.
as a result of state support, the issue of Kazkhrom obtaining a temporary coefficient of electricity transportation was resolved.
Note that the day of the capital officially begins with the solemn ceremony of raising the state flag on June 4.
With regard to the entry of foreigners and stateless persons into this territory, in accordance with this resolution, a register of border territories included in the border zone, where the border regime is canceled, has been approved.
b. baibek visited the apartment complex under construction in the Sayaly microdistrict.
The existence of a large number of legal acts that do not meet the requirements of the Constitution.
From October 5 to 24, 2015, twenty-five sergeants of the garrison with growth go to basic training courses.
The event, organized by the association of Lithuanian emergency medical organizations, "krekiu tyrimo centras" (crisis research center) and the Lithuanian Society of Emergency Medicine, was attended by the deputy director for medical activities of the Republican Sanaviation Center from Kazakhstan, as well as doctors such as Boris Sartayev, Elena Ryabinina, paramedic Svetlana Ushakova.
solemnly and in the presence of respected guests, the cadets took the oath.
Note that today in the capital the first meeting of the Republican Public Council for the Support of Entrepreneurship under the party "Nұr Otan" was held.
we must combine our deep economic ties into spiritual continuity.	director of the national museum of the republic of kazakhstan darkhan mynbay said that the two museums should serve for spiritual continuity .	0,39
I think that this is the first stage that will be laid later, concrete experience will be formed.	all public authorities are under the law control .	0,39
managed to resolve the issue of supplying water to the village of Bosaigyr by installing a high-capacity pump.	a more powerful pump solved the problematic issue of the water supply in bozaygyr village .	0,39
According to him, in the regions it is necessary to monitor specialties.	despite the measures taken , the number of specialists in non-manufacturing sector is increasing , while the technical , construction and agricultural specialties are still unsatisfied .	0,39
members of the national team were awarded by the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the board of trustees of the Kazakhstani worldskills international movement gulshara abdykalikova.	it was the first time college students got the opportunity to take part in the worldskills competition .	0,39
in general, the master plan of the regional center, presented in Astana, received a positive assessment from representatives of ministries and departments.	the plan of the regional center was assessed positively by the representatives of ministries and departments .	0,39
The first object was a communal street on which cars are allowed to park, overhaul is underway.	the first object was the parkovaya street .	0,39
The country was implementing a comprehensive plan of action to implement the committee's previous recommendations.	the kazakhstani side briefed expert committee on the key changes in the socio-economic and socio-political fields and answered a number of questions .	0,39
at the exhibition, the head of ktzh "uk" made a report on the transit potential of Kazakhstan.
Today, the access sections of the railway to the port are smoothed out.
NB of Kazakhstan asks second-level banks to give debtors the opportunity to pay duties in a single payment.
a reduction in the number of companies does not mean that companies are declining, and people are quitting. it does not mean that the company will be reduced .
the author of the national flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a shaken niyazbek artist.
Already this year 6.5 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of 22 educational facilities in Kyzylorda region.	besides , there will be 280-seat kindergarten .	0,39
therefore, the main task is to use clean solar energy in greenhouse complexes.	using of clean solar energy in greenhouses is the primary task .	0,39
Thus, the forum platform allowed representatives of domestic universities to present the export potential of the Kazakh education segment.	the forum allowed representatives of the national universities to present the export potential of kazakhstan segment of education and hold bilateral meetings with british counterparts .	0,39
Within the last 7-8 years, our agricultural producers have been working closely with machine-building enterprises of the Republic of Belarus.	they are the development of commodity markets on equal terms , exhibitions and fairs production , the development of bilateral trade .	0,39
non-ferrous metals and polymetals from the Altai ore subsoil are the basis of the region's economy.	the advanced manufacturing industry provides 60 % of gross value .	0,39
At the meeting, the Governor of the region familiarized more than 200 entrepreneurs with the project of the Head of State for the next five years to industrialize and increase the economic growth of the region, as indicated in the third direction of the Plan of the Nation 5 Concrete steps aimed at implementing 100 institutional reforms. "
note that within the framework of the memorandum, the parties jointly develop and implement research and cultural and educational projects for mutually beneficial cooperation; consultations on the identification of priority areas of research in the field of culture, history, art and museum; participation and holding of joint scientific and practical conferences, seminars and symposia; organization of joint scientific programmes; and presentation of materials and results (achievements) in history, art and museum affairs; organization of joint exhibitions, publications; allowing the publication of scientific articles in the publications of the parties; organization of working meetings; exchange of scientists and specialists in the framework of organizing internships in order to improve the qualifications of representatives of the parties; exchange of scientific information, documentation, literature and bibliographic publications, as well as the possibility of creating copies of private exhibits and collections.
the authors expressed their opinion on the future of foreign economic policy of the states of the region.
children and mothers between the ages of 1 and 1.5 live in the crisis centre.
In turn, Tamara Duissenova wished her colleague good luck in holding the event and said that Kazakhstan is improving migration legislation regarding ethnic migration.
my friends and I quickly got up, began to go around the Kazakh cities, shared our impressions and knowledge throughout the journey.
"the best player" - Akzhelek Kurmanova (Shieli sports school No. 9), askhat dauren (Zhanakorgan sports school No. 8), "the best striker" - the shameless egen (Shieli sports school No. 9), aulym tulebayev (island sports school No. 20), "the best coordinator" - the sturdy Pertolebay school (zhoruzhany sports school No. anka school No. orzhan).
without radical destruction, the pipeline will expand slightly.
A 19 702-meter main pipeline was put into operation through the Tupkaragai district in the village of Shapagatovo.
the main export product of the region is wheat and flour, which is 78.2% of total exports.
The construction of nuclear power plants in Zhambyl region is characterized by a rich raw material base of the region and provides good opportunities for the development of various types of chemical production.
because after the product came in and went shopping, it is difficult to determine who sent it, where it came from.
along with dynamic development, one of the highest is GDP per capita.
in addition, agreements have been signed with traders from India and Turkey.
Also, the business ombudsman can send a statement for review to the prosecutor's office if he does not agree with state bodies in connection with statements by entrepreneurs, "said T. Zhakylykov.
Of course, it is necessary to regulate the infrastructure that will contribute to the rapid development of the distance between the city and the airport, "he said.
attracting investments in the organization of car centers and service stations.
1 place - Tlemis Genghis Khan, section k1, weight 60 kg. (Astana);
On behalf of the Ministry, the Vice-Minister of Education and Science made a welcoming speech, noting that the main goal of the forum is to exchange best practices and knowledge in the field of human resources development between the two countries.
The law provides for the transfer of agricultural cooperatives from non-commercial to commercial.
we must protect the mechanical engineering market, and it will be very interesting to hear on this panel how to protect it with methodological measures.	the expert also noted that the astana forum will provide an opportunity to establish tight relations with foreign colleagues .	0,40
127, 6 billion tenge for 2016 and 750 billion tenge in 2017.	in case of the unexpected circumstances , the finances from the reserve will be allocated to improve some directions of the program .	0,40
two thirds of respondents believe that it is necessary to improve the level of practical training of future specialists. "
in Semey, modernization of 10 pumping stations, repair of 17 km of water supply and 14 km of water disposal, installation of 580 common house metering devices is planned for 2.4 billion tenge.
special attention was paid to improving the combat combination of peacekeeping contingents in conducting active actions to fulfill their tasks in a peacekeeping operation.
The decision on this project will be considered at the next meeting of the EEC and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
this is a competition that brings together the strongest young programmers in the world, claiming to be the best intellectual of the world level.
the main purpose of these measures is to warn drivers that the consequences of improper speed selection lead to accidents.
in their experts, members of the committee on the rights of the child noted that the republic has significant progress in protecting the rights of children.
We also saw the location of our future pavilion.
Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Civil Code is brought into line with chapter 35 of the draft Code, according to which civil cases on applications for restriction or deprivation of the right to independently use their income by minors between the ages of fourteen and eighteen are considered and resolved in courts, and not in guardianship and care authorities.
According to him, the implementation of this program will reduce system wear from 60% to 53% by 2020.
why don't we try such opportunities, "said the head of state.
Also, 40 agreements were signed and effectively implemented under the leadership of kazgau.
So, the ray fly in its interview noted a special sports discipline in the family.
with these funds, more than 90 thousand heads of mother stock have now been purchased.
presented the second volume of the Romanesque epic mukhtar auezov "Abai Zholy." nusippov noted the significant contribution of the author of the book to the development of the culture and literary heritage of the Kazakh people.
graduates of this university issue diplomas adapted to international standards.
According to the head of the service, citizens of Kazakhstan are subjected to repeated testing and indicators during treatment, in order not to happen, an electronic health passport is being developed.
If we assume that each family has 1-3 souls, then about 10 thousand people work in new apartments.
In turn, Aigul Solovyova stressed that the role of fiery youth in the dynamic development of Kazakhstan is very great.
The Mayor of Riga urged entrepreneurs to prepare for the exhibition in the capital, as well as start preparatory events for the participants of EXPO-2017.
they will have the opportunity to enter the international market.
on the Kazakh side, the chairman of the kazcosmos talgat musabayev and the acting head of the federal space agency of the Russian Federation on the Russian side a.n. Ivanov signed.
oil production during the reporting period amounted to 6.1 million tons or 101.4% compared to the same period in 2014.
among them b.eltsin and others.
the committee also considered amendments to legislation in the field of public-private partnership.
the entire operation was controlled from a specially created operational headquarters.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov, taking part in the retreat, stressed the need to increase labor productivity.
corruption, "anti-corruption policy," "corruption risk."
In his speech, the First Deputy Head of Government recalled that on May 29 of this year, the EAEU countries and Vietnam signed an agreement on the creation of a free trade zone.
At the end of the meeting, z.pataradze congratulated the residents of the region - Shymkent on City Day.
this organization has extensive experience.
thematic pavilions indicate energy sources.
With the positive conclusion of the plenary session, the judge will be represented in the Supreme Judicial Council with the support of other judges.
R. Asanbayeva noted that there is a steady interest from local travel companies and from foreign companies.
The board of the commission also approved a draft memorandum of understanding aimed at ensuring cooperation on the agro-industrial complex between the Ministry of Agriculture of Hungary and the Yeek.
The event begins with a review of the exhibition of scientific achievements "Innovative cluster in the field of resource saving in Almaty," which will present projects of a dynamic leap of Kazakh scientists recommended for implementation for the development of the Kazakh industry.
summing up, it is safe to say that the family of sculptures is a vivid example of the modern Kazakh family.
Today, work is underway on intra-village gas pipelines.
The head of state reported on the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development of the region and the program "agricultural complex - 2020."
local entrepreneurs are also starting to improve the beach area.
331 guarantee agreements totaling 10.9 billion tenge were signed under loan guarantee instruments.
goods are delivered to almost all regions of the republic, as well as to Moscow, St. Petersburg, northern and eastern regions of neighboring Russia.
a policy of consent and tolerance.
Development Fund programs, "said D. Abilkayrov.
The Chief of the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces, Lieutenant General A. Studenkin, informed about the results of a thorough inspection of parts of military contingents of the armed forces of member countries, held from May 13 to 21, 2015 in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Vice Minister noted that in order to improve the health of the population, special attention is paid to the introduction of a socially oriented model of primary health care.
the correctness and implementation of specific plans will be the main indicator of the development of the woodworking industry, which will directly affect the economic situation.
The ceremony was attended by guests from the education department of Akmola region and the education department of Kokshetau.
2.1% of registered enterprises are public associations and foundations, 0.6% are associations of legal entities, institutions and consumer cooperatives, 0.2% are joint stock companies, 01% are production cooperatives.
this is an unprecedented result.
if the user sends SMS to the SIM card with the number sec.
Otherwise, I wish the creative teams that converged on Eastern soil good luck in successful performances, and our viewers - not to let miracles, drinks and miracles into our city. "
According to Sergey Naryshkin, the accession of the EAEU and Kyrgyzstan, the interest of other countries indicate the high potential of this economic association.
he also became interested in the experience of the service model, which is now being introduced in Kazakhstan.
According to the Secretary of the Commission on Legalization of Property under the Mayor's Office Aigul Baymashova dated July 20, 2015, the commission received 2659 applications, including the legalization of park houses, individual residential buildings, and extensions.
It was also proposed to solve without a queue the problems of installing a high-quality video surveillance system on streets, residential complexes, and public transport.
as part of the work on optimizing the activities of natural monopolies, the number of devices of low capacity and capable of independently raising tariffs will be reduced.
Limits for selected transactions subject to financial monitoring have also been raised.
in particular, measures are being taken to prevent an increase in prices for basic foods, create conditions for the organization of an effective educational process, and prepare for the heating season.
The main topic of the conversation was the issue of interaction in the field of countering cybercrime.
The First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that many other countries are striving to deepen cooperation with the EEO and are interested in creating a free trade zone with the EU: India, Egypt, Israel, Syria, Indonesia, Iran, Korea, Mongolia, Ecuador, Peru and Chile.
According to the organizers, Kazakhstan has approved national commitments, thereby contributing to reducing the activity of global climate change.
among the innovations is the transition of the Institute of Justice at the Academy of Public Administration to the Supreme Court.
7.5 hectares of green spaces will be planted on the territory.
One of these projects will be built on the territory of the market, which operates along Tolebi Street in the Almalinsky district of the Tulparsky shopping center.
It is noted that the Karaganda region discussed the introduction of electronic proceedings to automate the process of referral to the judiciary.
in addition, he noted that the next substantive issue concerned the presidency of the panel.
It is noted that the negotiations discussed the preparation of the month of candidate for cosmonauts of Kazakhstan Aymbetov for the upcoming space flight, as well as considered the main directions of the planned scientific experience of the space expedition with the participation of a. Aymbetova.
To date, 7 kilometers of the affected channel of the Raven River with a total length of 13 kilometers have been cleared, the banks of more than 5 kilometers have been strengthened.
Also, the winners of the Friendship of Debuts Award will be awarded at the forum.
the parties exchanged views on the current state of socio-political life of the two countries.
Family Day has also been approved in Kazakhstan.
In her welcoming speech, Gulshara abdykalikova noted that during the implementation of the "future" program, opened at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. more than 8 thousand highly qualified specialists have been trained.
Currently, more than 20 memoranda have been signed to promote Kazakhstani goods among the local population.
It should be noted that the event is part of the long-term support for cooperation in the development of a cooperative mechanism between the States of Central Asia and Afghanistan to address the problems and challenges associated with explosive ordnance disposal.
Kazakhstan is in a geopolitically favorable position, and your country should only benefit from it.	visitors are interested in business cooperation .	0,40
Given that last year we took 55th place, this year we entered the top thirty and took 21st place.	they are the taxation position ( from the 17th to the 18th ) and the position of registration of property ( from the 14th to the 19th ) .	0,40
The first press tour was devoted to harvesting.	they are designed to show the true situation in the domestic economy .	0,40
The official birthday of the Ulba Metallurgical Plant on November 29, 1949.	the number of employees - 6 thousand people .	0,40
they have already shared their unique arts with the fervent desire of not only the Kazakh, but also the foreign listener.	the original performances of the band have already won the sympathy of the kazakhs and also foreign audiences .	0,40
According to the rector, over the past three years, more than 30 workshops, including retreats, have been held in all regions of the country.	the meeting reviewed the activities of the apk towards the national plan - 100 concrete steps , particularly step  identity and unity , " topical issues of formation and development of mediation in the apk , discussed the main directions of activities to strengthen the kazakhstan identity and social harmony .
repairs should be completed on September 1.	it is noted that the 105 km of road are divided between five contractors .	0,40
the number of colleges under this program will be increased from 280 to 370.	the number of colleges will be increased to 370 ( 280 ) .	0,40
many negative scenarios have become real life.	the oil price fell more than twice .	0,40
In 2015, 8 subsidiaries of the nuclear company will move to Shymkent.	it is expected that the relocation of the offices will have a positive effect on socio-economic development of the region .	0,40
Following the meeting, it is planned to sign documents defining the main directions of the future economic development of the union.	in particular , it is planned to implement the interstate program  cultural capitals of commonwealth " and turkmenistan 's capital dashoguz will become the capital of the cis for 2016 .
each step will be detailed in connection with the upcoming measure, "said M. Abisheva.
my first book is the 10th grader of Nazarbayev Intellectual School, one of the participants in the essay contest.
According to farmers, today it becomes problematic to reach enterprises with qualified specialists.
the third potential element of cooperation is the development of research components using the oil production method.	the third - increase of oil recovery .	0,40
the purpose of this fair is to promote the employment of unemployed citizens.	the aim of the job fair is to assist unemployed people .	0,40
Kazakhstani specialists presented to guests in the production sector of the enterprise an exhibition of a stabilized remote-controlled combat module (ZHKBZhM) of interest to the Russian side.	kazakhstani specialists in the production line of business presented to the visitors of the exhibition stabilized remotely-controlled weapon stations , which aroused the interest of the russian side .	0,40
Today, in many countries, even in most parts, it is such a judicial system that has been formed where the supreme court is the highest instance of cassation proceedings, "concluded A. Sasimov.
Governor of the region B. Katamkulov noted that work on the introduction of smart technologies is gradually underway in Shymkent.
bakytzhan sagintayev also held talks with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin.
because law is the basis that gives it to everyone.
today in Kazakhstan, "within the framework of the Business Roadmap 2020, about 6.5 thousand projects have been subsidized over 5 years.
His deputy ricardo marini got acquainted with the proposals of the world-renowned urbanist jan gale, the Mayor's Office reported.
Following the meeting, the relevant state bodies were instructed to accelerate the resolution of existing issues in the field of air transportation and the terms of stay of pilgrims in the Saudi kingdom during the pilgrimage.
the task of such measures is the introduction of the state language in stimulating people.
The purpose of the program is to adapt company managers to modern changes in the formation of leadership abilities of team workers.
Prosecutors have actively worked to protect citizens' rights to pay in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
among the regions, the Karaganda region is the leader in deposits - 6.1%, a year earlier this figure was 5.9%.
I think that we will be able to establish strong ties in this area as well
Therefore, it is impossible to be a top official before being among public servants, "said the Minister of State.
the general leadership of the armed forces groups was carried out by the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov from the Central Strategic Directorate.
By the end of the year, 19 schools and 4 kindergartens will be commissioned.
if you are building a nuclear power plant, then you need highly qualified professionals.
The building of the partnership dialogue of world religions, built on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, has been meeting strong guests of its spiritual and cultural values ​ ​ with a warm face for 10 years.
b. baybek instructed to clearly build a schedule for the work of street equipment, to organize the snow removal process as rationally as possible.
the length of the site is 629 meters.
According to him, mobile operators are recommended to reduce the tariff in the EAEU countries, according to the agreement, a special plan should be submitted by the end of October.
the company manages a network of oil pipelines with a length of more than 5.6 thousand km and watercourses with a length of more than 1.9 thousand km, provides work for more than 8 thousand people.
It is necessary to involve the youth of regions and villages in this, "said A. Bizhanov.
if at the first stage he was a fairly authoritative regional politician with sufficient experience in managing the previous economic system, then at the second stage we saw that he became the leader of a society that had just surpassed unity, which had gained independence, into an uncertain future.
In addition, the issue of further development of the "Kazakh-Chinese International Joint Logistics Company in Lianyungang" and the creation of a feasibility study of the logistics park of the member states of the Organization of Shanghai Cooperation near the port of Lianyungang was considered.
It is worth noting that Chinese cars jac of Kazakhstan production are exported to the Russian market.
At the same time, the construction of a new zheo will be the most profitable for the Taldykorgans.
actively repair roads in the regional center.
In this regard, Kazakhstan has sufficiently addressed the issues of post-mediumterm use.
badge "For outstanding work introduced into the prosperity of society."
In conclusion, he drew attention to the low activity of methane obtained from hydrocarbons and the turnover of natural gas (shale) in the production sector.
Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council N. Yermekbayev noted the need for a comprehensive analysis of economic and integration processes and forecasting all possible consequences and threats to responsible state bodies, taking into account the recommendations of experts and business communities.
the tourist rally took place in strict steppe conditions.
In 2014, the exhibition was held in the city, brought together about 200 participants and more than 2000 visitors.
As noted in the Department of Education of Akmola region, it is planned to spend 5 seasons in summer, 153 children are resting there today.
the main winners of the Inspiration festival and pop stars performed at the gala concert.
In general, by 2020 it is planned to train about 70 thousand entrepreneurs.
The opening of the kindergarten is an important event in the life of the district and the village, so the akim of the district, the secretary of the district maslikhat, akims of villages, veterans took part in it.
For the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 21 objects were planned for sale.
improving the quality of educational programs and the qualifications of faculty and certification of graduates are important.
innovative design of light industry products, nanotechnology application processes, scientific and applied developments.
and natural clean drinking water "taldysu" from the evening went on sale on the shelves of stores in the area.
and our level of membership in this organization allows us to be equal to it.
Thus, the refined forecast of the country's socio-economic development:
This holiday, starting from the capital and continuing on the scales with a 2000-year history, is very important for our people.
The press conference will be attended by Deputy Chairman of the Committee of the Penal Correction System of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Zhanat Keshubaev.
Governor of the region, fellow countryman Berdybek saparbayev, akim of Kyzylorda region krymbek kusherbayev and chairman of the board of sk-pharmacy LLP nurzhan alibayev took part in the solemn event.
In general, the heads of the Asemian Foreign Ministries expressed support for the upcoming EXPO-2017 in the capital.
The chairman of the bank also noted how many people purchased a car in the first tranche of preferential car loans.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, construction work is underway on an area of ​ ​ about 2,000 square kilometers.
this is 45.8 billion tenge below the approved plan, "he said.
In order to maintain the stability of the financial market, we will put specific requirements on these institutions.
and since the end of the cold war, ecu has become an effective mechanism for maintaining optimal temperatures in international relations.
most of the problematic situations are related to incorrect and misunderstanding, ignorance of their legal rights.
according to the results of the project, a three-volume diary will be published with comments by expedition participants.
Currently, work is underway to register 3 thousand 942 entrepreneurs working without registration with tax authorities. now the procedures are carried out to ensure the registration of additionally 3942 entrepreneurs who previously have worked at the markets in different stores , which were not registered in the tax authorities .
It is worth noting that after the conclusion of the agreement in this area there is a long period of exploration, after which production at the field will begin.
including the complex in the city of Semipalatinsk - 200-300 heads of cattle meat per day.
the Kazakh delegation held a working meeting with a deputy of the German Bundestag, a member of the commission on political issues and democracy, Axel Eduard Fischer, who is a rapporteur on the development of the resolution "Relations of the Council of Europe with Kazakhstan."
consumers can independently calculate the total area of ​ ​ their housing by multiplying by the thermal cost per m2 (these columns 3).
this should have a positive impact on the development of innovative strengthening and resolution of extrajudicial disputes.
Information technology is also widely used in civil proceedings.
As part of the project, the easel fleet will be updated, the share of Kazakh content will be increased and production in a number of areas will be localized.
in this case, an effective mechanism for verifying the actual combat readiness of units and units of the armed forces is a surprise check.
a number of ratification bills have been submitted to the people's representatives.
It should be noted that the introduction of an electronic fare system will solve such issues as the lack of accounting for one-time travel tickets, the lack of accurate data on passenger traffic, concealment of the income of public transport workers and the general inconvenience of the existing fare system.
Despite the instability of the metal market, this year domestic metallurgy has shown an increase in products, "the appeal says.
In addition, the meeting discussed the issues of combining data into a single system for accounting for heat, electricity and water supply.
It is expected that the motorcycle race will be one of the largest events with the largest participation of the population, since it covers many regions of Kazakhstan.
At the end of 1 month, employees increased the level of knowledge of the state language by 30 points, "said R. dosymbekov.
The main goal of the general process is to provide information from the general register and optimize the formation of customs carriers for the bodies of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The heads of these enterprises received orders to perform 981 tasks and a fine of 83.5 million tenge.
The entry of the Kyrgyz Republic into the EAEU is a more progressive stage of economic integration in the Eurasian space, which is much more important than the expansion in the Central Asian zone of the EAEU, - said O. Selteev.
He noted that the national competition will last until the end of February.
this competition is not a competition, it is the performance of exercises focused on the performance of combat tasks.
The current state of the automotive market in Kazakhstan is characterized by insufficient development of service networks.	according to information , there was a need to organize the import of motor vehicles , to increase the responsibility of importers and retailers for the sale .	0,41
In the course of further work with the Samruk-kazyna fund, we plan to make changes to the procedure for the fund's work, which will allow transparent public procurement and the signing of long-term contracts.
The Chairman of the Upper House congratulated the diplomat on presenting his credentials to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and wished success in promoting cooperation between the two countries.
The winners of the exhibition-competition were awarded with special diplomas, figurines and financial certificates of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
The meeting with the winners of the Beijing and London Olympiads took place on the opening day of the third season of the children's camp.
today we reward those who contribute to the formation of a strong Kazakhstan.
As the Khazret Sultan noted to the imam of the mosque, today young people get rid of the clergy, "the internal wealth that we create, we try to rid with our own hands.
Plenary sessions, seminars and round tables will be held within the framework of the world forum, aimed at studying the field of pult traditional culture and art of various topics.
He expressed gratitude to women with many children who are increasing the population in the country, and heroized this matter of mothers.
In general, it is planned to increase value added prices by 1.2 times, increase the number of employees of food production enterprises by 2.4 thousand people, increase labor productivity by 1.1 times and increase non-oil exports by 1.2 times.
In this regard, the possibility of involving young people in education through the "future" programme is being considered.
Besides, a. Gazaliyev added that teachers from leading world educational institutions will come to the university and will teach students in these areas.
There are also a number of interesting companies in Akmola region.
according to these requirements, procurement organizations continue to pay value added tax in a general manner, but the taxes paid to the budget by procurement organizations are returned as subsidies.
The President of Kazakhstan will also receive on this day the general director of the magate yu.amano and the former senator.
all countries of the world see and admire the development of Kazakhstan.	letters of support were also received from the representatives of ethno-cultural organizations of atyrau region .	0,41
Kazakhstani businessmen have established business relations with Chinese colleagues in the export of wheat, flour and oilseeds.	increase the trade turnover by several times - that is the result of the two-day business conference on the food industry in khorgos .	0,41
in order to get from lead to the area of ​ ​ the grocer, further to the markanel, it takes the population 4 hours.	but the solution of repair of roads of the regional value is very important .	0,41
The main projects were worked out with the participation of Polish investors.	there have been the first investors .	0,41
The register will allow systematizing Kazakhstan producers into a single list to better ensure ties with Expo-2017 general contractors.
To implement the project, special offices have been opened in judicial institutions.
As part of the exercises, Kazakh servicemen will exchange experience in improving their skills and organizing patrolling activities.
As for the guarantee, 1,173 borrowers received loans in the amount of 53.6 billion tenge, - Abylkayyrov said.
Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the scientific and educational center "Green Academy."
in the inaugurated center, children played for several hours for free on attractions.
By the end of the month, the relocation of Appak LLP, Karatau LLP, Akbastau ak and ak office "to the" outskirts "will be completed.
firefighters regularly conduct tactical exercises on the region's reservoir for training purposes.
The advantage of a mobile phone is that some services can be obtained by mobile phone. the advantage of the mobile electronic digital signature that you can receive some services even with the most simple mobile phone that does not have the internet or installed applications .
66 graduates won the best certificate.
three children work in the field of oil production.
The forum participants paid special attention to the issues of joint preparation for the educational year announced in the CIS in 2016.
According to the organizers, this action will become a tradition in the future, and next year other families will receive such gifts.
This exhibition is attended by 70 companies from 10 countries.
the start date of the 2nd stage of the Sarats project is close.
since aluminum, which is only 0.2 percent, becomes a high quality iron.
The next regional casting or selection of children took place in the Kokshetau Philharmonic of Akmola region.
The Kazakh diplomat stressed that he will make efforts to achieve his goals and find new ways to deepen bilateral relations.
only the city center is cleared, the rest must be forgotten, the areas must clear their territories.
To date, specialists of the Green Zone institution created to implement this program have begun sowing on an area of ​ ​ 2500 hectares in the western part of the city.
as a result of the study In honor of the Saki ruler of the VI-v centuries, several structural elements of a large monument were discovered - a surface structure surrounding stone fences, hordes.
One of the main indicators of the quality of education is the receipt by students of prizes from intellectual competitions and olympiads.
The deputy of the Senate expressed gratitude for the increase in the number of entrepreneurs who began to engage in agriculture and gardening in rural areas.
"The first modern urban centers of Kazakhstan will be large cities - capital and diamonds, then - shymkent and aktobe.
In November 2014, a delegation of the North Kazakhstan region visited Minsk to create trade, economic and industrial cooperation within the framework of economic representation.
In addition, at the forum, young people exchanged views and proposals.
in general, unemployment is declining in the region.
The exhibition was held in Rosario, which is considered the copper center of Argentina.
In addition, the ECE Chair noted the potential areas that eaeo provides to foreign investors wishing to implement their projects.
Thanks to cooperation with the Unistrim, the activities of operational money transfers will be even more favorable for residents of villages and district centers, "said Azashmashabaev, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazpochta JSC.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, police officers will annually be certified in order to determine the conformity of their activities.
these conditions are effective for the country's suppliers and develop the international transit potential of our country.
The French side took an active part in the draft preliminary feasibility study on the objectives of the BN.
The Mayor of the capital noted that during EXPO-2017 the issue of organization of charter flights between cities is considered, and the issue of organization of regular flights will be considered and supported by the Governor's Office of the capital of Kazakhstan.
this is the program "nұrly zhol," the idea of ​ ​ "angilik el," as well as issues of kha development.
The program will allow you to get agricultural equipment with a preferential rate of remuneration and without prepayment.
according to the results of field training, the personnel completed the task and achieved high results.
During the event, three panel sessions were organized on topical issues of the garden, blogging sphere, master classes were held with the participation of domestic and foreign speakers.
to date, 20% of all breeding animals in Kazakhstan are grown in eastern Kazakhstan.
safety of the diver and results of the assigned combat mission.
Currently, work is underway on the improvement of the territory and utilities.
It is worth noting that the festival, first organized by the regional center in Ust-Kamenogorsk, will be held from September 21 to 24.
they increase the physical endurance of fighters and maintain the combat readiness of all airborne assault units of the airmobile troops of Kazakhstan.
At the meeting, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development Seytstan Ayimbetov, as well as members of this Committee, Aitsul Solovyova and Nikolai Logutov met with representatives of the delegation headed by Michael a, analyst of the Department of Territorial Development and Public Administration of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the statement said.
it has an unprecedented receiving and processing network capable of simultaneously receiving grain and oilseeds.
in particular, representatives of the publishing house expressed their readiness to provide textbooks in a loan from their reserve fund on a guarantee basis.
The President of the Senate drew attention to the need to ensure the organization of the event at a high level.
As part of the program, 18.9 thousand head of cattle were purchased in the region, 3.9 billion tenge was invested in this direction.
Since 2004, the restoration of crop sites in the villages of camels, ustagans, bostankum at Kyzylkum has been carried out.	orynbassar tokzhanov noted that mangistau region designed 7 local areas to preserve the unique landscape and biological ecosystem of ustyurt plateau .	0,42
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has successfully carried out its historic mission of crisis prevention as a bridge of communication between East and West.
in addition, another such center operates in the village of Krasny Yar of Kokshetau.
interaction in terms of organizing a source of nature has also been worked out.
the forthcoming reforms in complexity are not inferior to our reforms carried out in the early 1990s.
He is a great thinker who awakened his place in our history, "said Mr. Karimova.
The meeting participants shared the experience of prosecutors of the Shu member countries.
At the end of the meeting, the parties handed each other memorable gifts.
now there is a training center and a hotel for visitors.
I am sure that this event will give a new impetus to the further popularization of sports in our country.
Therefore, employees will be given differentiated wages depending on the results achieved.
according to preliminary planning, the mining and processing plant can be located at the crude field in the Zhambyl region.
all documents are aimed at protecting the rights of minors.
During the meeting, the Kazakh side informed about the reform of the judicial system on behalf of the head of state within the framework of 5 institutional reforms.
The Singaporean delegation had read in detail the Singapore practice of preventing corruption, which had a high rating on the corruption perception index.
In addition, attention was paid to the need to give impetus to trade and economic cooperation, the upcoming measures of the bilateral agenda were discussed.
The commission under the local executive bodies for the legalization of property in Kazakhstan received 37,938 applications for the legalization of property totaling 359.4 billion tenge:
On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the cultural center, the deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region congratulated the delegation and the head of the secretariat of the assembly on the occasion of the holiday.
currently, the flight institute has begun a new recruitment for admission.
He reaffirmed the relevance of the Ecu Strategy to Counter Threats to Security and Stability in the 21st Century of 2003 and the Astana Jubilee Declaration of 2010 and called for supporting measures to increase the capacity of bilateral executive structures to counter these threats.
these words of the head of state are important today.
Over the past six months, the detachment has fully completed the tasks set by the leadership of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the main department of the military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	in his speech he noted the high level of combat training and the highest degree of combat readiness .	0,42
In addition, in May of this year, meetings of commissions on juvenile affairs were held in all regions, at which issues of rehabilitation of illegal actions against children were discussed.	in addition , all regions held meetings of the commissions for minors and protection of their rights .	0,42
our ancestors could not dispose of what we have today.	the generation of grandfathers and fathers had nothing of what you have , they did not have such an opportunity .	0,42
According to the results of updating the industrialization map of the region, 11 projects with a total value of 527.8 billion tenge are calculated with the creation of more than 91 thousand new jobs.	both projects were reviewed and endorsed at the regular meeting of the coordinating council on the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development .	0,42
we need to complete these facilities in a quality and timely manner. we need to finish all objects in time .
they did everything to make our entrepreneurs enter the world market.
on the one hand, they are dangerous, on the other, they are a large information fund that can be used in propaganda against them.
It is difficult to say when this will be implemented, everything should develop, "he said.
I was in Budapest, Moscow, Izhevsk, monte carlo.
today in the labor market, modern qualified requirements are not imposed on specialists, which, obviously, does not give positive results in training personnel.	the program needs improvements ,  said the deputy
In addition, the President of the Supreme Court noted that there was a downward trend in the prison population.
it has rules of direct effect, in this its advantage.
These three teams played prizes among themselves, and as a result our fellow countrymen won with a score of 5:3.
The meeting participants noted the successful visit of Turkish President Recep Erdogan to the capital.
Secretary of State According to the results of the visit, Abdykalikova gave specific instructions to state bodies.
both marches began a. Vinokurov.
including among the personnel of the second airborne assault battalion 18404 a/b.
In the field of new technologies and science, on July 22-24, 2015, at the Kazakh-Iranian business forum "Park of Innovative Technologies," a center for technological cooperation of Iranian scientific and technological parks in Kazakhstan was opened.
employees, due to which the employer transferred 5% of mandatory pension contributions.
some issues were resolved there.
As noted in the center of electronic management of the government of Kyrgyzstan, the development of the act in the country is regulated by the law "on informatization."
In turn, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 JSC Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted the high potential of Almaty, which has become the locomotive of the domestic economy, and thanks to the direct support of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, Astana Expo-2017 is an anti-crisis program.
It is worth noting that the total area of ​ ​ introduced housing is 3,400 square meters.
company leaders made a number of proposals and considered the possibility of maintaining their business in the conditions of lower oil prices and the introduction of a free rate of tenge.
85-90% of construction and installation work has been completed to date.
therefore, we need to look for ancient stories.
each stage is allowed to pass once, so it cannot be possible to go immediately to the next stage. the passage of each stage is allowed only once .
The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Tahir Balykbayev, Acting Director of the Department of International Relations and Postgraduate Education Serik Zhurbayev, Director of the National Unified Testing Center and 39 rectors of higher educational institutions of the country (national, state, joint-stock companies).
Note that the vast majority of plant workers are college students.
with a semicircle radius of 12 meters, there must be 4 symmetrical windows.
the bill introduces amendments and additions to legislative acts providing for the elimination of gaps in the current legislation: the tax code, the laws "On state social benefits for disability, on the occasion of loss of the breadwinner and on age in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On pension security in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
It was also noted that in the eight months of 2015, the number of container trains of the Sino-European-Chinese route increased by 291 out of 105 container trains compared to 2014.
At a decisive moment, a number of tests are waiting for the participants.
foreigners have already become interested in the products of the assembly rail beam factory.
and the country uses only 13.5-14 thousand mw.
to date, 30 billion tenge has been returned to the budget as taxes.
he wished to become faithful defenders of independent Kazakhstan, worthy citizens of our country.
The event is dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
that is, from 3.5 to 2.8-2.5%.
to appoint Akishev Daniyar talgatovich as chairman of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
at the same time, legislation was developed, "said the head of state.
to the right and left of the shanyrak is an image of a winged rose on legends.
On the first day of the visit, Abdykalikova delivered a congratulatory speech at the scientific and practical conference "Identity and unity of the people of Kazakhstan in the context of 100 concrete steps," met with the female community and visited a number of social complexes.
On September 5, 2014, in the V convocation of parliament, the head of state instructed to reduce the number of permits by another 50%.
the second stage - during the diagnostics of companies, the main directions of further business improvement were determined, more than 100 initiatives for companies were developed.
Turkmenistan is a promising export market for construction materials for our companies.	grocery market was particularly interested in high-quality flour production .	0,42
prior to this, a mini-center was opened in the village of tar, and it is also planned to open a river in the village - said asylbek ismagambets.
As part of the expedition, meetings will be held with the population of the region on the topic: "Eternal peace - the unity of the country."
The Agreement is designed to regulate international road transport of passengers and goods between two States, as well as transit and registered transport from third countries in one State.
At the same time, the norms in the document are aimed at ensuring the national security of Kazakhstan from threats of corruption in the state apparatus and other areas.
At the end of the event, guests were presented with memorable souvenirs.
It is noted that 45,701 applications for the legalization of real estate totaling 435.9 billion tenge were received by the commission on legalization of property in Kazakhstan under local executive bodies.
In accordance with the size of retail prices approved by the Government of Kazakhstan in the third quarter of this year, the cost of 18 types of goods increased in the capital, approximately from 5 to 10%.
nerve plants are grown among agricultural products.
production of machinery and equipment for oil refining and oil production, production of electrical machinery and electrical equipment, production of motor vehicles, production of railway equipment, production of motor vehicles, production of machinery and equipment for mining industry and production of agricultural machinery.
only in the city of Semey, a calcium hydroxide company buys limestone from Uzbeks.
Addressing the participants of the meeting, the head of state noted that during the responsible period that worries the entire world community, a critical stage is passing, proving how viable the Shu is.
entry of citizens into the declaration system. "
The project provides for all necessary infrastructure.
In addition, a temporary building will be built for the first time in the city for competitions in ski acrobatics of snowboard and freestyle.
115 million euros will be additionally allocated for the exchange program for students and professors.
then, 600-700 meters through an anti-tank grenade launcher and an anti-tank Kalashnikov gun, enemy tanks were forced out.
According to international experts, one of the highest programs in the world has started in Kazakhstan.
As the Secretary General assured, Kuala Lumpur will be adequately presented at the upcoming exhibition, in the near future the authorized department will begin discussing the organizational issue with the Kazakh side, "the statement said.
According to him, along with the mentioned ones, the institution of surrender of citizens who have long become judges for newly elected judges will be introduced in the future.
The meeting also discussed the issue of prior notification of customs authorities of States on the transport of goods by various modes of transport.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan supports the global document on the development of our planet.
The signing of the document on behalf of the owner was entrusted to a member of the panel on energy and infrastructure of the tair manstroy.
The forum participants will pay special attention to issues of joint preparation for the educational year announced in the CIS in 2016.
in addition, requirements for out-of-competition procedures will be increased.
the bill provides for the harmonization of standards to regulate issues of local content in the procurement of goods, works and subsoil use.
The exhibition area of ​ ​ the complex is 645 thousand square meters.
it is also planned to develop the possibility of holding court sessions with detention facilities and correctional institutions through remote video communication.
This is due to the fact that the sale of apartments was carried out without permission and contrary to the requirements of the law "On Shared Participation in Housing Construction," said the city hall.
therefore, the road workers of the Zhambyl region decided to draw the attention of drivers to this issue.
as a result, we entered into new contracts with our consumers, increased their number and reconstructed, and most importantly, increased the number of deliveries.
we have more than two thousand ancient historical monuments.
the visit of the newly created youth chamber choir was an exemplary affair aimed at developing the qualities of young talents within the framework of Turksoy.
in addition to the Uzbek market, in terms of exports, the company is negotiating the supply of block meat and large pieces in vacuum packages to Moscow and St. Petersburg cities of Russia.
this will allow to obtain information on citizens and medical organizations at the same time.
this develops a number of processes, ranging from tax payments to increasing the investment attractiveness of the state, "said A. Rau.
One of the main proposals is the establishment of requirements on the part of the local body for the energy efficiency of the facilities under construction, the decision to provide a governing land plot, the determination of the category of energy efficiency and comfort of the facility, the presentation of requirements for the owners and customers of the facilities, "he said.
Therefore, budgeting for the next 3 years will be based on low commodity prices and basic export stocks.
To do this, we must focus on our spiritual development and formation, "he said.
because a country's competitiveness is measured by this level of knowledge. "
since the declaration of income and property is submitted only by certain groups of persons.	the main bill amends 5 codes and 6 laws , and the collateral involves changes to the constitutional law  on elections in the republic of kazakhstan " to change the name of the declaration submitted by persons who are candidates for elective office .
most of Kazakhstan's oil is exported through Russia.
this memorandum provides for the implementation of a project for the production of titanium dioxide and special steel.
98.6% of all judicial acts issued in the republic are recognized as legal and justified.
in the second part, spectators are waiting for masterpieces of the opera genre.
One of the factors associated with the internal problems of the state is the formation of a modern state apparatus.
During the general conference, an exhibition "kazatomprom" unfolded in the Vienna branch of the ferry.
now a platform is being formed that allows other children to be equated with strong children.
detutates have also ratified the Convention on the Administration Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Instruments in Civil or Commercial Matters.
The opening of the monument is also a symbol of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
The Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tokayev spoke at the opening of the seminar.
contributing to the training of qualified specialists and promoting their further employment are one of the priority areas of the Chamber of Entrepreneurship of the region.
In Turkisib district on the territory of the garden named after D. Konaev there is a beautiful route based on a footpath.
this is the first result after the transition to free circulation, "he said.
checks to liquidate businesses took us a long time, so we needed to review them.
The integration of education in science and education was discussed at previous meetings.
According to the results of the competition, the first place was taken by the Ayymbetov dynasty from the Aral region and the lazy Nurmanbet dynasty.
4 families from each district, two of which received a referral to participate in regional competitions.
the average score in it was 79.5%, which is 2.6% higher than last year.
There he also met with residents and talked about the effective aspects of the program.
clearly defined the role of judges.
aircraft can be used for sowing seeds and sprinkling fertilizers.
Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights under the President of Kazakhstan Kuanysh Sultanov and Secretary of the Commission made a report.
the memorandum provides for the possibility of building an offshore water intake plant in the suburbs of Aktau.	at the moment , experts of  veolia " develop technical and economic documentation for the project , consider various options for its implementation and consider involving the public-private partnership .
The participants' speeches were evaluated by the staff of the language committee of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the capital's language development department.
Also, at the joint Kazakh-Malaysian trade and economic committee, he noted the need to include a representative of the agency in a special working group in the field of tourism.
The 170 km campaign is planned to begin on July 24 in the village of Ural, Burlinsky District, and end on July 29 in Uralsk.
To solve this problem, it is proposed to provide assistance to people who moved from regions with a large labor force to regions identified by the government.
Specific work in the field of general history is needed to implement this program and provide results.
At the award ceremony, the best young specialists of the year were awarded diplomas and memorable gifts.
The Chairman of the Bulgarian Parliament invited K. Tokayev to visit Sofia to further strengthen the inter-parliamentary dialogue.
This time, the agricultural fair will be held on the square in front of the Khan Tent soo.
any art critic from all regions of the republic can take part in it.
this is the fifth festival of my career.	the highlight of the festival will be the number of honored trainer , and owner of numerous awards vladislav goncharov -  one among lions . "
In addition, by the end of the year it is planned to complete the overhaul of the 15 km section of the Chapaevskaya gross castalovka of the Russian Federation, the 4 km section of the Kaztalovka and Shk of the Russian Federation highway.
you are representatives of the previous generation on the way to realizing the "Chinese dream" and modernizing the nation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in the conditions of gradual decentralization and the transfer of powers on the ground, the party's need for personnel with experience in managing regions will increase.
in general, the integration of a single architecture in the activities of the state administration of Kazakhstan.
120 workers are involved in the construction, of which 114 are local residents.
About 6,518 plant heads were destroyed.
The agenda addressed the implementation of the harvesting campaign this year.
The press conference will be attended by the Vice Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Ruslan Beketayev, Deputy Chairman of the Financial Monitoring Committee of Kazakhstan Bakhtier Marazhapov, Deputy Chairman of the State Procurement Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan Maxut Isakhov and Director of the Legislation Department of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement of km of Akh.
this will create new jobs in traded sectors where non-oil products are produced, create demand for exports to new markets, "said H. Timmer.
It should be noted that Israeli manufacturers of these products are among the best in improving and using unmanned aerial vehicles in difficult military situations.
If by the end of the year the construction of a new plant begins, then all the equipment necessary for the greenhouse will come out of the south.
At the fair, citizens will be able to purchase products 15-20% cheaper than market prices.
The creation of the State Corporation is carried out by combining key structures, such as social protection, land relations, real estate registration.
Currently, graduates successfully perform military service in various units and units in positions from the chief sergeant of the armed forces to unit commanders.
the almanac was published by the Writers' Union of Kazakhstan together with the "literary newspaper" and the "Romano-newspaper" under the auspices of the diplomatic mission of Kazakhstan in Moscow.
Chairman of the Committee of Nuclear and Energy Supervision and Control of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan also spoke about the introduction of a single buyer.
In April 2012, we decided to open a center for social partnership and mediation. the main goal of the center was to unite the regional mediation centers into a single association , " - said sh.orazbaeva.
entrepreneurs are notified of the prevention of revaluation of medicines and medical products, the cost of which is established within the framework of the memorandum.
illegal migrants and violators of legislation in the field of migration, citizens who are not registered with the competent authorities in a timely manner.
In turn, the Konrad Pazgans noted that their companies have extensive experience in meat production and show great interest in the project.
modern automated equipment contributes to the high quality of laboratory research and provides high-quality blood to medical institutions of the region.
An important point at each meeting was the wealth of crops and the growth of crops.
In his speech, the astronaut called on Kazakhstani youth to start the movement of patriots of the country.
The bidders completed the tasks of primary and full (secondary) examination of the patient, collection of history, identification of priority signs of the disease, establishment of necessary medical measures and transportation within 10 minutes.
During the press conference, five reports were presented on the modern and future development of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
in addition, the issue of sulphur processing will be resolved, which negatively affects the environmental situation in the Caspian region.
Together with the Chinese Engineering Academy, we took the first step in applying oil production technology and scientific development with a large oil company cnpc.	in terms of the x kazenergy eurasian forum , the national engineering academy of the republic of kazakhstan and the engineering academy of china signed a memorandum on cooperation .	0,43
firstly, the crisis occurred even before the state gained sovereignty, while the young GOST had two problems.	firstly , the independence of our country was preceded by a crisis .	0,43
these are houses located at: kuibyshev 48 and kanai bi 40. basements , heating , sewerage , water supply , drain pipes , facades , balconies and windows are being reconstructed , " the statement reads .
Now we propose in the new bill to legalize this property through the state revenue committee, "said A. Tengebayev.
all this is considered the main result.
Stepnogorsk entrepreneurs received detailed information about what is needed for a beginner.
Are metropolitan residents ready to openly express and give concrete proposals regarding the purity of the city and the situation in it? "
The last conference showed the high interest of the Hungarian scientific environment in the history of the formation of Kazakh statehood.
Through the center, residents will be able to find out whether there are medicines in pharmacies in the city, as well as leave their complaints about the work of health care institutions.
d.kemeron noted that Kazakhstan has achieved incredible success in attracting investments, development of industry and trade.
the task of each generation is not only to preserve the wealth of the native language, but also to inherit it from generation to generation.
ktz express transports cargo from China to Europe through the territory of Kazakhstan on the principle of "one window."
Kazavtodor signed another agreement with the International Union of Road Transport.
The award ceremony was held in the assembly hall of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Astana.
this would create 1,000 permanent jobs.
the theme of the Kazakhstan pavilion, located in a two-story building with a total area of ​ ​ 3,000 square meters. m, was "Kazakhstan is a country of opportunity."
Within four days, children demonstrated their knowledge as well as their ability to provide first aid.
It is worth noting that such changes do not affect the main activities of the holding.
Georgy Vasilievich connects this expedition with the book of the head of state "in the wake of history."
my decision declared the first day of sacrifice - the day off.
The sphere of housing and communal services is very lost, there are large reserves.
now in the regions there are councils of public consent.
In addition, the women's team of Kazakhstan showed excellent team training and won a bronze medal at this stage of the championship.
the rest of the farms are frozen and smoked.
As the dean noted, another feature is that from the first year, students will accompany clinical practice and communication with patients.
investors of the western region of Kazakhstan were presented in detail new measures of state support.
in such difficult times we have to carry out complex reforms.
The harvesting of potatoes and vegetables was also completed.
by allowing such actions, we give a signal to young people that you can finish everything with money or buy everything.
Thus, during the coordinated activity, the first Sino-Kazakh-Azerbaijani container train was sent on July 24 this year.
The event participants were shown a documentary about kha.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that due to the large number of issues on the agenda next year, there is a lot of work ahead of the Nұr Otan party.
The head wished the mayors of the districts and all partnerships that this campaign should be successful.
The general programme in the field of art is aimed at training creative personnel on the basis of the principles of dual education.
implementation of the agreement will have a multiplier effect on the socio-economic development of the region - the share of local content will increase, jobs will remain, product competitiveness will increase, the report said.
However, individual legal disputes will be resolved through an independent international element, according to which the arbitration has introduced a single institution.
More than 10 thousand copies were presented advertising and information materials reflecting the potential of tourism in Akmola region.
the results of such monitoring are the basis for the analysis of corruption risks.
will become the largest transport, logistics and distribution center in the region.
these and other measures were proposed to be implemented within the framework of the interdepartmental plan for the suppression of theft of someone else's property, and the development of this plan was entrusted to all interested state bodies.
Note that such practical training and combat activities in the ground forces are completely not used.
this is the best result of Kazakhstan in the history of participation in the ranking of the competitiveness index, "said S. Zhakupova.
however, inside the passenger's luggage there should be no items included in the customs declaration.
The project was attended by 8 people who received benefits and grants for training under the mva program.
work is underway here on laying the foundation of the finished product warehouse, which is the main building.
The interlocutors also exchanged views on combating terrorism and drug trafficking.
in addition, the deputy director of the Shanghai Academy of Social Studies Zhang Zhaoan attended the meeting.
The Russian side highly appreciated the prospects for the development of Kazakhstani defense enterprises, which in a short time received a wide range of products that meet modern weapons.
today we are seeing negative situations related to the budget.
the Department of Energy has no governance mechanisms and tools to address the issue.
Thanks to joint work with the Danish urban yang, mini-recreation areas of residents in each district appear in the city.
At the same time, the parties are promoting friendly, partnership, good-neighbourly relations that are strengthening every year, thanks to the wise policies of the leaders of Kazakhstan and China. The program "Nұrly zhol" and the President of China "one belt - one way" He noted that the initiative was a vivid reflection of long-term general cooperation, the successful implementation of which will give a new impetus to the development of the two countries.
He noted that abroad he is very responsible for museum and archival business and trains specific specialists.
The airmobile troops of the Republic of Kazakhstan and units of the National Liberation Army of China rose on alert, were put on alert and regrouped in a southeast direction.
Recall that this year in the Akkol building of orphanage No. 1, repair work began.
I was especially worried - teenage schoolchildren sent their poems, photos, congratulations.
On behalf of the Minister of Defense, the leadership of the armed forces, I congratulate the best of the youth of our country on the first military-patriotic youth gathering. our country pays great attention to the younger generation .
The reforms will be implemented with every step towards it, starting from the moment of the event.
41.5% of small and medium-sized businesses are headed by women.
The Majilis deputy also took part in a meeting of the standing committee on international security and peace affairs, which discussed issues of strengthening cooperation against the threat of independent law and democracy.
Kazakhstan collects Korean cars.
Cambrian patrol competitions have been held annually in the UK for 40 years.
It should be noted that the Commissioner of EXPO-2017 R. Zhoshybayev also met with Kazakh students studying in Britain and urged them to contribute to the popularization of the exhibition in foreign countries.
The head of state signed a number of laws:
According to the Governor's Office of the region, due to the increase in the volume of Akmola eggs, the region not only covers the capital, but also exports these products.
at the first stage in broilers, we plan to bring up to 20 thousand tons, up to 40 thousand tons per year.	the factory is equipped with modern high-tech equipment of the swiss company buhler - the most advanced nowadays .	0,43
Fuel deliveries are carried out in accordance with the approved schedule.	jsc aktobe tpp is also preparing for the winter .	0,43
If this requires money, then we teach them that money can be found in this way.	this is the signal that we in any case should not give young people .	0,43
In total, 260 Akmola medals were awarded in the region on the eve of Constitution Day of Kazakhstan this year.	as of today , the basic law provides a guarantee for secondary education .	0,43
In his speech, the deputy head of government noted that the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate is a historical event.	in summary , deputy prime minister stressed that the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is responsible historic event .	0,43
The Consumer Protection Committee warns the retail network of the Republic of Kazakhstan about the need to take measures to prevent the sale of products that do not comply with the technical regulations of the customs union, and calls on consumers to actively inform the committee departments about the facts of the sale of products of these manufacturers in retail chains.	the committee on consumer protection warns retailers of kazakhstan on the need to take measures to prevent the sale of products , inadequate technical regulations of the customs union and encourages consumers to more actively inform the department of the committee on the implementation of the facts in retail products of these manufacturers .	0,43
write, collect, promote.	if we don 't show our youngsters how deep our history is , we won 't be able to develop the idea of mangilik el ( eternal nation ) ,  president nazarbayev said at the ceremony .
It should be noted that India is one of the largest industrial powers.
qualifying rounds are held in our countries, the victorious citizen in his country gets the opportunity to take part in the final stage. i participate in this contest for the second year in armenia .
if the enterprise is in the industrial zone, then its infrastructure part should not retreat, "said the Governor of the region.
At the sports base, which occupies 8 hectares of the territory, more than a hundred athletes can simultaneously conduct training.
As part of the program of preferential car loans, according to the data as of October 22 of this year, kdb satisfied 3991 applications of individuals.	20 billion tenge has been allocated from the national fund to support kazakhstan 's automakers and stimulate consumer demand in the automotive market of the country .	0,43
With an explanation of 100 concrete steps of the head of state to implement 5 institutional reforms, the people's representatives got acquainted with the expected changes in the law.	during the inspection of housing built under the state program for civil servants and low-income families , the members presented some furniture to the large family aldiyarovs ' .	0,43
aviators met with a famous Kazakh historian, director of the Institute of State History, Berkutbai Bayanov.	airmobile forces and the department of military police prepared in honor of a special event .	0,43
It is worth noting that it is not a religion that brings violence, which kills people.	the religion doesn 't cause the violence ; it is not a religion if it kills people .	0,43
Also during the speech, an initiative was initiated to adopt a universal declaration of the United Nations on achieving a world free of nuclear weapons, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The purpose of the charity bike ride is to provide charitable assistance to a medical and social institution for children with disabilities.
32 wrestlers went to the decisive stage.
It is worth noting that 137 uiid projects have been implemented in the region.
hard wheat varieties are purchased from us by Russia and Italy.
it was interesting to them that the dogs performed tasks.
of these, 52,505 residential facilities in the amount of 459.8 billion tenge, 27,381 non-residential facilities in the amount of 147.9 billion tenge, including 104.6 commercial facilities in the amount of 6,475 billion tenge, 21 participation interests of legal entities in the amount of 1.7 billion tenge, securities in the amount of 4.1 billion tenge.
a. Dzhaksybekov also drew special attention to the issue of launching a single intellectual contact center of the capital.
This center is aimed at solving problematic health issues.
It is worth noting that such a forum is held annually in the region.
at the same time, his immediate commander answers questions, and not the person undergoing testing.
Primary health care in all areas of health care.
During the meeting with the regional leadership, Indian entrepreneurs discussed the creation of joint projects and attracting investment in the region.
in accordance with the National Plan, preschool training is being improved.
At the same time, the expert noted that the one-nation road map remains the document that forms the system.
the best child plague will also be chosen at public hearings.
the introduction of these changes and additions will not only strengthen the institutional role of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, but also increase the values ​ ​ of public consent of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
there will be great competition with goods, it will put pressure on prices, and in the end the price of our goods may fall, "said the head of state.
The bilateral desire to establish an active dialogue is due to the need for better work to train specialists in the field of technical regulation in building very promising and sought-after areas for the implementation of state innovation policies.
Recall that the construction of a glass factory is carried out in the industrial zone located in the city of Kyzylorda, in the Titov microdistrict.
By order of the General Staff, the ground forces groups began to carry out combat training missions at training centers and training grounds.
At the expense of these funds, 283 pedestrian crossings with 14.4 thousand road signs and signs, sound devices were installed, support was provided for the development of 11 "Invataxi" in the regions of the country.
Article 24 of our constitution outlines freedom of choice of work or article 26 states that everyone is obliged to pay taxes.
The State will establish labour standards for the minimum level of guarantees and compensation to employees and strictly monitor compliance by the employer with these obligations.
Also, the title of the best coach was received by the Aral Sarzhan Sahiev.
Head of the Organizing Committee of the Universiade-2017 Games Asset Abdualiyev spoke about Almaty's readiness for competitions, noting that the construction work of sports facilities is carried out over time.
National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, etc. Memorandum of cooperation between Pavlodar State University named after Toraigyrov.
"The green bridge partnership program proposed by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the Astana Economic Forum is widely known in the world community and circles of politicians, experts and business circles," said Vladimir schoolboy.
in addition, he noted that the framework of economic reform emphasizes the deep processing of domestic raw materials and the formation of an innovative industry.
Work was under way to bring court decisions into line with a clean law, and work was being studied on the tasks assigned to the courts and the number of judges.
The capital, which turned 17 this year, is an important part of my life, which is connected with the fate of the country.
in turn, Chairman of the Azerbaijan Railways Party D. Gurbanov noted the importance of this course and thanked the Kazakh side for its active participation in the international project.
As the Vice Minister noted, at the stage of concluding and concluding an agreement, there are no effective mechanisms necessary to challenge the results of public procurement.
seedlings and vegetables are sold to the remaining place from the grapes.
37 new bills have already been submitted to the meeting, "said Chairman of the Majilis K. Zhakupov.
in the capital, the logistics of delivering passengers to the city are convenient, taxi services, scheduled and express buses are well organized.	we remind that astana hosts iata conference on passenger service .	0,44
More than 21,000 cubic meters of solid household waste and mud were removed from the territory of the Nauryzbay district, 1.6 km of the Vorona river bed were cleared, "the report said.
Until 2016, the region provides for the construction of 91 facilities, including 50 schools for 12,720 places and 16 kindergartens for 3200 places, 44 resource centers.
for agricultural goods, the average level of customs duties was 10.2%, industrial goods is 5.6%.
aa. Tarasenko said that a new section "Country of a united future," supplemented by new measures, was included in the national plan.
In addition, 7 bills that are already on the agenda of the meeting, 44 bills will be submitted to the upcoming plenary session for discussion by deputies.
in confirmation of which a.amine R. Zhoshybayev sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massim. the meeting also discussed the prospects of cooperation of kazakhstan , including the joint promotion of the exhibition theme at major international markets , " the statement reads .
The purpose of the signed memorandum is to establish cooperation between the parties in the development and implementation of an open code of reporting on the results of exploration work on mineral resources and mineral reserves of Kazakhstan (kazrc kazsk).
Establishment of a bank of magate for the supply of low enriched uranium (tbu) to Member States. "
The meeting participants discussed an agreement between the world and the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation on joint actions to build a junction section of the highway from the city of Aktobe to the city of Orenburg as part of the implementation of the transcontinental Western Europe-Western China highway project under development.
Currently, on behalf of the akim, work is underway to launch this communication center, which will connect all services in the city to one system.
U. Sadibekov expressed confidence in the prospects of production.
after a dispute, to resolve it not by judicial means, but without bringing it to this dispute.
Taking into account the positive assessment presented in the CSN, this merger is carried out on their basis.	so , the integrated system will accept applications and also process the data .	0,44
In his speech, the head of state noted the special importance of modernizing the traditions of the great silk road.	as the kazakh leader noted , 25 years have passed since he decreed to close the semipalatinsk nuclear testing range .	0,44
The meeting considered the conduct of container trains on all routes at a speed of 1100 km/day.	it also provides compliance with stable speed of container trains on the route up to 1 100 km / day .	0,44
regulatory decisions on bankruptcy and restoration of non-pecuniary damage are being prepared, "said E. Abdykadyrov.
At the end of the meeting, an anonymous survey of candidates for the post of judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan was conducted in accordance with the democratic principle.
The society positively met 5 institutional reforms, as well as "100 concrete steps proposed by the head of state."
in the village of Akbulak, a playground is located in the courtyard of the birch garden.
the perseverance and dedication shown by the Chinese people is a vivid example of heroism and courage, courage and patriotism.
A short video about the applicant city for the Winter Games-2022 aroused interest among foreign journalists.
As you know, the graphic method is considered the oldest.
promoting family values and raising the status of the family.
I have been playing in the army for the second year, respectively, I participate in the final.
children looked at the girl in a storm hat of fighters with a fire of the 20th century.
In addition, for the new academic year, it is planned to commission a new educational institution replacing an emergency school in the village of Buden, Musrepova district.
As part of the capital's holiday, the city authorities plan to hold more than 70 festive events.
Today, Kazakhstan is a modern information institution with open doors for everyone who has chosen a book and study.
Within the framework of industrialization, a glass factory was built in the region, providing the whole of Kazakhstan with a product.
loans were issued for the implementation of 1,262 projects of young entrepreneurs totaling 117.7 billion tenge.
they will make it possible to really increase the speed, scale and classification of intelligence operations, as well as to preserve human resources at the time of obtaining important information for the troops.
these colleges participated in the World Bank's Technical and Vocational Education Modernization Programme.
Measures aimed at organizing public works paid by the unemployed but not requiring professional qualifications and training.
investment projects proposed for inclusion in the industrial map are aimed at the development of the productive economy of the region.
Under the agreement, it is planned to re-motorize (replace the engines with a modified improved engine) and modernize the An-2 aircraft with An-2-100, as well as industrial assembly of MS-14 turboprop engines for installation on renewable aircraft.
for example, women with heavy legs or large families.
one of the first facilities to be put into operation is the office of the organizers, close to completion.
then my husband and I talked and applied for participation.
At the same time, if necessary, member states of the Eaeu can allow extradition in English on the basis of national legislation, the report said.
the constitution consists of 9 chapters, 98 articles.
in addition, the head of state visited an exhibition of large industries.
So far, the Governor's Office of the capital has received appeals about the legalization of property.
Today, the sculpture rejoices in the achievements of its children along with precious colors.
In connection with the transfer of new facilities, the Mayor of the city noted that the capital has a low incidence of tuberculosis.
To participate in plantation work, you need to contact the Sustainable Development Land Fund, where you can get detailed information about tree planting zones, "said Sarah Beisen, head of the foundation's press service.
we must, first of all, ensure that the main roads are cleaned of snow.	the mayor was shown snow grooming equipment and its readiness .	0,44
according to him, the bill includes an eternal country "the development of the issue of ensuring interethnic harmony in Kazakhstan on the basis of the values ​ ​ of a national patriotic idea.
This was done in order to give investors the opportunity to open fields and make a profit if possible, "he said.
The implementation of this investment project will reduce the import of poultry meat.
The draft Labor Code was developed on behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "5 institutional reforms - 83 liberalization of labor relations."
The list of documents required for the provision of services remains unchanged.
exemplary servicemen received diplomas from the first deputy chief of the general staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General Ruslan Alimov.
s. The international authority of the Kazakh leader in the field of peace, renunciation of nuclear weapons is recognized by the whole world.
In addition, the withdrawal of troops has been completed, you have begun negotiations with the opposition.
The transition to per capita funding will be approved in 126 pilot schools, the management of which will be taught by 4 thousand school leaders.
Before the opening of the conference, a delegation of artists and culture of Kazakhstan laid flowers at the monument to the founder of the Kazakh Khanate, a keray and a khan.
The hardware meeting also discussed the level of learning of the Kazakh language by government officials.
Opening the sports holiday, akim of Aktobe region berdybek saparbayev noted glorious sports roads of baluan and noted that his sports path is an example for thousands of Kazakhstani children.
Together with the paired children's fund "Unicef," a study room on the rules of conduct in emergency situations at school was prepared.
As part of the exercises, NATO peacekeepers fulfilled their peacekeeping tasks in the area of ​ ​ responsibility.
there was also a significant crop of melons - 9075 tons or 169.9% more, cereals - 2010 tons or 29% more.
in addition, penalties are imposed for failure by the customer or supplier to fulfill obligations under the contract on public procurement.
According to the legalization of property not located on the border of Kazakhstan, the authorities of state bodies of the capital did not receive applications as of July 7, 2015.
Oil-exporting countries in the eastern part of the region are adapting to low commodity prices and experiencing serious difficulties.
The life of the constitution remaining from that period was short-lived, due to new views and requirements, a new basic law was required, "he said.
it is necessary to issue appropriate mechanisms and methods of control over our living space. kazakhstan is a bridge between east and west .
At the same time, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan is introducing a program for the management of chronic non-communicable diseases in two pilot regions of the country.
In the second phase of the programme, with a view to further breeding the number of livestock and increasing the total breeding stock in the country, it is envisaged that young animals will be obtained from the number of foreign animals and distributed throughout the country.
The Kapkenov family expressed gratitude for such good events in the country.
We hope that the business relations created within the framework of the three-day event will become a traditional tool for the development of agriculture in the southern regions of the republic.
work is ongoing in accordance with the order.
as a result of the intensive urbanization process, the pact aims to promote good nutrition and sustainable food, food production in cities and suburbs and to retain food activities.
Within the competence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, specific serious steps are envisaged in the oil and gas industry in order to fulfill the instructions of the Head of State.
The sides noted the importance of the agreement on deepening the partnership between Kazakhstan and the eu, which will be implemented this year.
this system will be fully automated in the future and will facilitate the opening of the entire process.
in particular, the priority is the high-quality delivery of goods from the sender to the customer.
Thanks to the policy implemented in Kazakhstan, it was possible to introduce the method of operation, which is applied only in our republic today.
The agreement on Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU was signed on December 23, 2014 in Moscow at a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
More recently, the master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the weight category up to 57 kg, the winner of the world championships Vladimir Kudrin won a silver medal.
We organize such raid events regularly, during which we will talk about fire safety measures and owners of residential buildings, "said J. Tokyshev.
currently 98.237 million tenge has been spent on the facility.
Employees of the Department of Land Relations and Agriculture took an active part in the raid.
extensive territories of Eurasian steppes have been mastered here, material and spiritual culture has been established.
The mass openness of the work of the state and corporation is noted in Kazakhstan.
according to it, citizens will be able to find out the current state of public safety, "the prosecutor general said.
Given these production and costs, uranium reserves will be reached in the next 80-100 years, "said S. Poltoratsky.
The five bills recently approved at the bureau meeting were divided into standing committees of the Senate.
More than 70 pieces of equipment and equipment were presented at the exhibition.
over time, there are local products.	these countries didn 't introduce strict requirements for producers .	0,44
Earlier, Governor of the region Amandyk Batalov met with the rectors of leading universities of the country and signed a memorandum on the allocation of grants to 91 graduates from low-income families.	students of nazarbayev intellectual school , winners of the international robotic olympiad talgat bek and ratmir satpayev presented their research projects .	0,44
when raising tariffs, the state will help compensate for payments to families that exceed 10 percent of family income.
Issues of preparation and holding of EXPO-2017 became the main topic of the bilateral meeting.
these words belong to Nursultan Nazarbayev, we all dream of a bright future, study the Kazakh language with us, this is the foundation of an "eternal country."
symbolic significance is our move towards membership of the organization at a time when we have embarked on five popular reforms.
A system of design and estimate documentation for the start of the construction of the airport is being developed and the necessary funding path is being considered.	in order to improve the services of the potential tourists ' area , it was decided to construct the airport with a modern , comfortable design .	0,44
this city played an important role during the formation of the Kazakh people and statehood.	there were also other periods such as foundation of kazakh khanate .	0,44
but all this makes the fight more interesting and gives the desire for victory.	but all this makes the fight even more interesting and adds a desire to win .	0,44
The construction work at the site is divided into 3 stages; today, according to the initial plan, the construction of a shopping center has been completed.	the first stage of a large-scale project has been completed and an agricultural producers trading center has opened .	0,44
we intend to continue our new projects, expanding the partnership with the large transport holding of the Eurasian continent, despite the current economic difficulties of Russia, "said, in turn, the German Gref.	we intend to further develop cooperation with the largest companies of kazakhstan ,  german gref said .
The total area of the exhibition is 19 thousand square meters and a width of 1,200 square meters, in which all 356 participating companies from 44 countries of the world participate, which led to the presentation of exhibits of 864 aircraft.
therefore, the experience and activities of our leadership in addressing these threats are of great interest to the Canadian leadership.
they traditionally passed in open and friendly relations.
49,717 residential facilities worth 432.6 billion tenge, 25,584 non-residential facilities worth 141.4 billion tenge were received, including 101.3 commercial facilities worth 6,065 billion tenge, 20 interests of legal entities worth 1.4 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.
production of high-quality products.
Matinees opened competitions in applied sports - grenade throwing.
use of titanium scrap reduces cost of titanium semi-finished products and facilitates production process.
Mayor of Almaty A. Yessimov noted that the funds aimed at ensuring the sustainable economic development of the city are enough to improve the financing of the police.
In general, 12 projects for a total of 2 111.5 million tenge are being implemented to modernize heating facilities, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
Delphic games are aimed at identifying and supporting talented creative youth.
The meeting discussed the implementation of joint projects with the acting Minister of Tourism Alberto Alves and the development of tourism potential in Kazakhstan and Brazil.
he noted that the Chamber of Commerce and Kazakhstan of Bulgaria is a non-governmental, rapidly developing country.
many of them did not return from the front.
Therefore, we are interested in cooperation with your enterprises in the field of light industry, metal processing, logistics, "said the deputy chairman of the Chinese international trade committee.
In addition, ready-made food will be packaged in a special taikazan for scales, "the report said.
The press conference will be attended by an employee of the Kazakh Institute of Strategic Studies Vyacheslav Dodon.
today you got the opportunity to get acquainted with more than thirty Serbian companies.
The agreement provides for the involvement of Turkish businessmen in the construction of food processing plants in the industrial zone of the Alatau region.
At the same time, the mayor instructed to widely involve residents and legal entities in the creation of flower beds.
this is a very difficult matter, it is very difficult to fight with the personality of everyone in this regard.
100 steps to implement the 5 institutional reforms envisaged by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will lead young people to a bright future.
The guest of honor noted the commitment of the southern region to the agricultural industry and expressed a desire to cooperate in this area.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that he did not make a random choice of the central party school for lecturing.
in accordance with this, the main customs service of the PRC sends data in this area to the eo.
Nursultan Nazarbayev's initiative to achieve stability in the world economy was highly appreciated by the world community.
and construction work will be carried out at Orda Glass Ltd.
Germany, which from the first days of independence provided stable support to our country on various issues, today is a reliable and constructive partner of Kazakhstan.
The event will be attended by members of the National Commission on Women and Family and Demographic Affairs under the President of Kazakhstan Aitpayev and Bekstan Tutushev.
As noted by the Vice Minister of Education and Science.
the issue of providing children with knowledge and leisure activities was raised.
the monument was built at the expense of descendants and sponsors of war participants.
thirdly, the head of state instructed to fully implement the chicken program by 2020.
as global problems, it should be understood that as a result of interreligious and interfaith problems, a significant part of humanity is forced to live in cities and villages for refugees, "said Imam M. Kayyrgaliev.
The innovative competition started on September 28 of this year.
wind power, taking into account the current capacity, reaches 54 MW.
As agreed, the supply of engineering infrastructure to the construction site is our task, this work is very intensive.
In the program document, the head of state noted the need to increase state support for the agro-industrial complex as one of the new anti-crisis measures that will solve the issues of food security of the country, the Senate said.
To increase industry volumes, additional memoranda will be concluded, which will be implemented between Akmola's suppliers and the general contractor of the expo 2017 exhibition complex.
We took part in financing the construction of the KDB, and now we are ready to provide financial support to expand the supply of plant products to foreign consumers, "said Bolat Zhamishev, Chairman of the Board of the DBK.
the program will provide independent preparation for the international baccalaureate degree program presented at the school.
district branches should provide systematic work as service centers for the population.
Akim instructed to promptly eliminate the existing shortcomings, to put the facility into operation in a timely manner.
they got acquainted with the production base of Rauan-burabai LLP in Borovoy sanatorium.
Therefore, I decided to start entrepreneurship from this direction and wanted to open a center in which it would be interesting and useful to spend time with my family, "says the entrepreneur.
In 2006, the reconstruction of the lawn dam, built as part of a project to regulate the Syr Darya river bed and preserve the northern Aral Sea, was completed.
brave bees demonstrated not only excellent physical endurance, but also mastered all the skills of combat readiness.
in addition, at the design stage there are 5 vegetable storage facilities with a total volume of 23,500 tons and 7 greenhouses producing more than 10,540 tons of products per year.
scenery and costumes designed by famous Italians - etsio fricerio and franka skuarchapino, which were not painted either in life or in art, but so far have not left a single viewer indifferent.
this reduces the cost of producing ferroalloys.
therefore, the cassation court passes from the region to the competence of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this leads to the approval of a doctor's subscription through a bureau in hospitalization or through an online resource.
appropriate measures will be taken to ensure qualified medical care for residents of the capital.
According to the Minister for Investment and Development of Alberta Rau, today the state pays great attention to supporting the domestic automotive industry.
today trade and economic relations between Pavlodar region and France mainly concern the import of equipment and various technical details.
In general, the company is the 15th project launched in the second half of the year as part of the second five-year plan of regional development.
this is the development of its own production within the framework of the union, the elimination of barriers to mutual communication in the field of railway engineering in the domestic market, and therefore the elimination of administrative barriers to the promotion of production goods in the eurozone zone. " zybulnik.
These funds will be directed to the implementation of projects of entrepreneurs of the Burlinsky district of West Kazakhstan region.
The purpose of the event is to discuss data in housing and communal services organizations included in the list of open data to be published in the future.
Estimate documentation is also being developed for connecting utility networks to these houses.
A. Tsoi noted that the purpose of the forum, as in previous years, is a meeting of scientists, doctors and health care organizers at the Eurasian Forum of Radiologists - an exchange of views caused by the needs of time.
thus, the tribal economy is supported by the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Ratification of the Protocol of Accession of the Republic of Armenia to the Treaty of Accession of the Kyrgyz Republic and the Inter-American Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters.
on the same day, the President of the Senate received the Ambassador of the Singapore Foreign Ministry on special assignments.
The Secretary of State drew attention to the need to improve the quality of the country's human capital in the face of competition for highly skilled personnel.
Over the 15 years of its existence, the committee has become an effective platform for discussing the achievements of bilateral relations and important issues on the agenda at the level of open and mutual trust.	as he thinks , the inter-parliamentary dialogue strengthens cooperation between kazakhstan and the european union .	0,45
production of polymer products of Netexim ltd LLP, r.w.s. production of reinforced concrete paving concrete LLP.
It is worth noting that the kindergarten is built in accordance with modern requirements.
I thought that there would be more understanding from teachers, and many would be grateful to them.
at the same time, anti-corruption monitoring will be carried out by all anti-corruption actors.
Every thought of a great brother makes us think about our role on earth.
it is necessary to intensify the work of the social institution of the family, "the report said.
the legal status of the council will also be changed by transforming the supreme judicial council into an independent institution and expanding its personnel powers.
The presentation of the new master plan, covering until 2035, was held in Astana.
it is then rolled onto a pre-prepared roadway.
In the first direction, in the first half of this year, the Buudb representative office in Kazakhstan conducted an independent sociological survey.
The event took place during the tenth meeting of the presidents of the highest courts - the member countries of Shu.
in addition, it is now necessary to establish links between agricultural producers and elevators in the region.
switching to marginal tariffs will be carried out at the established tariff.
He noted the relevance and scale of state construction reforms in Kazakhstan, reflected in the national plan.
what a threat to the Central Asian countries, our threat.
A. Kravchenko noted that these measures will give a worthy result with the support of society.
The Commissioner General of caricom became interested in the technical support of the exhibition in the capital and the content of the pavilions.
The Minister of National Economy and the Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov made a report to the senators.
The book of rashidi history was published in the amount of 7 thousand copies.
horse cattle milk is most often used to prepare cream, juice, soap, as it contributes to the maturation of the skin.
It is worth noting that currently organizations and citizens are actively using unmanned aerial vehicles.
this production will save resources.
B. Saparbayev examined the archaeological excavation zones and inspected museum expositions.
recently, at the initiative of the head of state, the contest "Mereili Recourse" was held.
gas and light are immediately connected to all owners of apartments in the new house.
the rule on the provision of information on the export of goods from the eurozone is excluded from the project.
selection of flight crews of combat aircraft and helicopters of the air force of Kazakhstan continues.
in most cases, local farmers neglect fire safety measures. in most cases , local farmers neglect the rules of fire safety .
the goal was to unite such mediation centers for close communication with each other.
43 residents of the region received the title Hero of the Soviet Union.
further by sea ship "roro" was delivered to the European coast to the Estonian port of Paldiski.
diving with a parachute is the basis of military training of airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
52,792 residential objects worth 462.5 billion tenge, 27,503 non-residential objects worth 148.9 billion tenge were received, including 105.5 commercial objects worth 6,509 billion tenge, 21 participation interests of legal entities worth 1.7 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.
cheaper prices for goods through the development of transport logistics.
the official opening of the circus took place on December 14, 2005.
that is, the Ministry of the Interior will be provided with operational information on where such narcotic plants will grow, who came to this territory and who began to collect narcotic substances.	in general , the main idea and purpose of the bill to use space sensing when solve some problems of the economy .	0,45
this will make it possible to preserve business, jobs and the tax base as much as possible.	b.sultanov said that the third block is to reduce the timing of the rehabilitation process and bankruptcy .	0,45
this model has contributed to the establishment of a mechanism for the timely recording and action of violence against children.	this model will give the opportunity to establish a mechanism for the registration and response to reports of violence against children .	0,45
As a result of the working trip, in the city of Shchuchinsk, at a meeting of the council, representatives of the regional branch of the Kazavtodor "uk" and "Kazakhavtodor" noted that 100% of production bases had been prepared.
During the large-scale show, pop artists of Kazakhstan and Russia performed.
in addition, the document defines an authorized body empowered to implement the anti-corruption policy of the state, as well as coordinate the activities of anti-corruption actors.
The BBC noted that individual support for everyone in need is the main task of the city authorities.
T.Duisengaliyev noted that the issue of price regulation at the Almaty airport is not easy.
Vice President of the World Curling Association noted the high level of organization of hui-mile competitions.
We also understand that in the framework of the EAEU, quickly coordinated measures should be taken, be it at the national level.
then the head of state inspected the building of the rice processing plant and got acquainted with the production work of the complex.
Recall that today Kazakhstan celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that servicemen of the Middle Kingdom will train with Kazakhstani colleagues for about a week.
Of course, the 41st year, hunger, then it was very difficult, "said Aunt Shamshia.
the bills are aimed at legislative support for the implementation of the "100 Steps" National Plan.
Participants of the event showed great interest in the history of the Kazakh Khanate and spoke out for the need for joint aspirations aimed at studying the history and cultural traditions of Kazakhstan.
I went to space on your behalf and returned.
he gave appropriate instructions to the governor of the district, noting the need to increase the landscaping of the Zaysan River.
design documents for the construction of machine-building and ferroalloy plants were also developed and sent to the state examination.
A. Mamytbekov also noted that attracting foreign companies to the dairy industry, for example, such an object as the German Meghli company, will ensure the introduction of modern production and technologies in Kazakhstan.
And for children, such national games as rate of fire, nine shots were played, "the report said.
According to the results of June 5 of this year, four students showed the maximum point result according to the results of the UNT.
Today, 71 ethnocultural associations operate on the basis of 9 friendship houses in the East Kazakhstan region.
The purpose of the conference is to join parliamentarians and deputies working in the region on migration issues.
the adoption of the bill does not entail negative socio-economic, legal consequences and does not require additional funds.
in addition, drawings were released depicting the priest and Kerei khans and a multi-winged yurt mock-up with the legendary abylai khan.
Applications for students' intention to enter military schools are submitted directly by their parents to military schools.
One of the important features of legalization is that money legalization is not income.
In recent years, many negotiations and meetings have taken place between the heads of the two countries.	according to him , over the past five years , average annual attendance of korea by kazakhstanis with the aim of medical examination and treatment has been increased by 100 % .	0,45
further, a SMS message is sent to the indicated numbers about the time and place of the court hearing, which will save budget funds, prevents the evasion of persons brought to justice.	it is noted that now , drawing up administrative cases , there is the information on the contact information of the parties , such as cellular telephone numbers , in the coupon .	0,45
It is noted that the action was attended by servicemen of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan and veterans of the Great Patriotic War.	the campaign involved the servicemen of land forces of the armed forces of kazakhstan and the veterans of the great patriotic war .	0,45
51,366 residential facilities worth 448.8 billion tenge, 26,711 non-residential facilities worth 146.2 billion tenge were received, including 6,318 commercial facilities worth 103.7 billion tenge, 20 interests of legal entities worth 1.4 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.	the local authorities have received 61,614 applications for legalization of property located in kazakhstan totaling 600.5 billion tenge .	0,45
the total area is 1.2 hectares.	building materials will be delivered from south korea .	0,45
the goal of the project is to strengthen the formation of legal status and the formation of a council of organizations.
all students and students of state institutions of the capital and cities of Almaty will take part in the project. today , diabetes is the most common cause of disability of people .
all were provided with a passenger car.
he added everyone to the box and financially helped the children get treatment.
at the exhibition you can get acquainted with various devices of the world agro-concern along with agricultural machines.
then the teacher for 23 years provides support to his pupil.	the teacher is assigned to help him to choose a profession .	0,45
school graduates signed special protocols on distribution separately on the basis of agreements with medical organizations.	the graduates signed protocols of personal distribution on the basis of contracts concluded with medical institutions ( at the spring job fair ) .	0,45
market issues will be solved by creating a single modern shopping complex.	market issues will be resolved by a single modern shopping complex .	0,45
The action will be attended by units of the British Armed Forces and reservists, as well as more than 18 foreign teams.	points are added or deducted depending on time and conduct whilst on the patrol and medals or certificates are awarded depending on score .	0,45
the share of registered entities in activities was 81.4%.	the share of registered actors is 81.4 % .	0,45
In addition, 47 won a bronze medal, speaking at 120 and raising the bar.	anastasia kolesnikova won bronze - squats ( 120 kg ) .	0,45
46 employers who have violated the requirements of the law regarding the use of foreign labour.	46 employers have been brought for violations of the rules of involvement and use of foreign labor according to the art . 519 p . 1 of the administrative violations code of kazakhstan .	0,45
restoration work should begin at the plant in the near future in accordance with the agreement.	it is focused on import substitution and ensuring fuel security .	0,45
in such difficult conditions, farmers of the Akmola region carry out grain crops according to the plan.	in spite these difficult conditions , farmers of akmola region are able to provide agricultural crops throughout the area .	0,45
The President of Kazakhstan also drew attention to the fact that relations between our countries begin from the time of the Kazakh Khanate and Akhmat Shah several centuries ago.	he stressed that kazakhstan will always maintain good relationships with afghanistan .	0,45
Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption of the Sayan Akhmetzhanov and Head of the Department of Public Service of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption will take part in it	the press conference will be attended by deputy chairman of the agency for civil service and the anti-corruption sayan akhmetzhanov ; head of the civil service of the agency for civil service affairs and anti-corruption zharkyn tleukenov .	0,45
According to the press service of the EEC, this event is designed to create the necessary conditions for expanding and organizing the production of high-capacity gas turbines in countries within the eurozone and ensure investment attractiveness in the field of energy conservation. this measure is aimed at creating of favorable conditions for the organization and expansion of high power gas turbines in the eaeu and increasing of the investment attractiveness of power engineering industry .
in the center, young people learn to work with a computer and the Internet.
To apply the experience of leading technologies, anka actors will be trained on the basis of scientific research.
at the feldsher-midwife stand, 4 medical workers and midwives are taken in.
I saw everyone with my own eyes.
During the event, an agreement was reached on the creation of a network of contact persons.
In order to increase the level of knowledge of the center's employees, training seminars and round tables with specialists of local and authorized bodies were held on the basis of the developed curriculum for June 2015, the report said.
Speaking at the ceremony of the train meeting, the President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy Uk noted that the Trans-Caspian route Askar Mama serves as a transit bridge between Asia and Europe to increase the potential of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
according to the approved calculations, gasification of housing is on average 134235 tenge, taking into account materials, works and services for the gas pipeline 25 meters.
About 60 people came to the fair as job seekers.
during the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev awarded the President of France the Order of Friendship of the 1st degree.
In turn, he noted that the main goal of the visit of Anatoly Nikkasov is a proposal for cooperation.
in addition, the possibilities of using the terminals of the Kanstan seaport of Kazakhstan were considered.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, B.Amireev conveyed the message of Yelbasa to the President and informed about priority services of Kazakhstan.
Efficiency of business support centres.
and 10 to the Committee on International Affairs, Defence and Security, 8 to the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform, 7 to Finance and Budget, 4 to the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development, 8 to Social and Cultural Development, 2 to the Committee on Agrarian Affairs, 5 to the Committee on Environment and Environmental Management.
in the upcoming three-year plan of the republican budget, all costs will be optimized.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov accepted the report of the heads of road repair organizations.
for the first time under the bill, admission to the public service will be carried out through three-stage competitive selection.	in order to advance in rank , it will be required to have work experience at lower positions and to pass advanced training .	0,45
this is the goal indicated by the president, this task.	it must be prohibited .	0,46
also the entrepreneur creates the Atameken dairy farm for 200 heads.
half of the cargo was delivered by road from the Talgo plant in bilbao at Madrid.
Within the framework of the meeting, a plan of action (roadmap) with a working tool for the next 12 months will be discussed in working groups and plenary meetings for two days.
meritocracy - the growth of the position of the state in which he serves, depending on the position of the employee, a contribution to the development of the industry in which he works. meritocracy is a system of merits that define the contribution of each civil servant in order to improve the direction in which he operates .
It is worth noting that this document will be changed at the request of its participants.
the parties reached an agreement on the creation of joint copyright teams for the preparation and publication of textbooks, scientific and practical publications, teaching aids and proposals on the practice of prosecutorial activities, strengthening of law and order.
Thus, domestic sheep farmers contribute to the development of the country's economy.
the championship is going well, the indicators are higher than last year.
Thus, the National Chamber proposes to retrain the unemployed and send them to existing work.
in his opinion, astronauts should have passion, strength and simplicity to know the world.
Akims of cities and districts of the region were instructed to carry out explanatory work to pay off debts to the local population.
for this purpose, with the help of a hydrant, rapid wastewater was artificially exposed to the opposite side of the toad.
falling asleep lasts several times a day, from a few seconds to several minutes.
In addition, "we are interested in the development of defense cooperation, which can be implemented in the form of joint exercises and training.
and by the end of this year, the Ural Transformer Plant plans to produce three thousand transformers that will be sent to Russia.
The conceptual model of the new labour code proposes to clearly define the limits of State intervention in the employer's and employee's labour relations, defining their responsibility and role, preserving the balance of interests of the parties.
at this time, a group of rescuers assisted the victims in the water.
B. He familiarized with the preparations for EXPO-2017.
the image of the shanyrak on the state emblem of the republic is a symbol of a common settlement, the united homeland of all peoples living in our country.
In the 1st quarter of 2015, the largest average per capita nominal monetary income of the population was observed in the cities of Atyrau region and Alma-Ata, where this indicator exceeded the average republican level by 2.0-1.8 times.
i. esenberlin in his historical trilogy of the XV-XIX centuries. Paints a stubborn struggle for independence.
in addition, through the service being introduced, feedback will be established between the court and the administration of administrative policy regarding the adoption of a judicial act for proceedings, consideration of the case, monitoring until a final decision is made.
During the meeting, the delegation presented the Kazakh model of inter-ethnic peace and social harmony.
the exhibition aroused great interest among local residents and representatives of the media.
the dynamic development of the capital of the state - the capital, which gave a significant impetus to the large-scale modernization of the whole country.
It is noted that such a step is planned in connection with the objects of the upcoming Universiade.
In another village, electrical installations were replaced and a new pump was installed in a well on a white river.
By the way, the company has other achievements.
a summer language quarter is being organized, in which students of 3-4 courses will be involved.
While until now most of the townspeople used the water of the raw darya river, cleaned by special filters in accordance with the relevant technology, today intensive work is underway on the use of groundwater.
Adaulbaev instructed to conduct a comprehensive audit of all accepted appeals and, in case of detection of violations of the law, introduce acts of prosecutor's supervision and take appropriate measures to restore violated rights.
this very complicated trend is also used in world practice.
The goal is to learn through primary organizations how party decisions are implemented.
a total of 36,610 cubic meters of solid household waste and dirt were removed from the affected areas.
Given the free exchange rate of the national currency, the population needs to explain that nothing extraordinary is happening. the rate of the tenge depends on energy prices .
it was also noted that in the field of science it is necessary to respond to the introduction of research results into production.
according to him, the report of the Center for Strategic and International Studies reflects in detail the foreign policy and initiatives of Kazakhstan.
the share of spent funds in housing construction in the total investment in fixed assets amounted to 11.4%.
At the end of 2014, 16 anchor projects were put into operation, 2.7 thousand jobs were created, of which 10 reached design capacity from 50 to 100%.
Ulba Metallurgical Plant is the largest world-class enterprise with 65 years of experience in the nuclear industry.
the raw materials required for the glass plant are supposed to be supplied from the serum deposit located in the Kyzylorda region.
With regard to their employment, they belong to the target group.
The forum brought together about 130 countries under the theme "Engineering education for a sustainable society."
its goal is to increase the economic potential of the country.
During the discussion of the bill, taking into account the comments and proposals of the committees, it became necessary to amend and supplement the draft code approved by the meeting in the main areas:
this plan includes measures to improve the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis among migrants, to initiate a regional dialogue through the organization of summits.
i.aliyev noted that Azerbaijan, being at the junction of civilization, supported the interconnection of different cultures.
11.2 c/ha by region. with an average yield of 4.6 million tons of grain was harvested.
Receives and dispatches by road and rail around the clock.
Tournament on free-style and female wrestling among young men and girls of 1999-2000 year of birth named the deserved trainer of the USSR A. Azymbetov ended.
The Secretary General of the Shu also noted that the cooperation of the organization is a multidisciplinary organization, the end of the period of the chairmanship of the Russian Federation and the transition of the chairmanship to Uzbekistan coincide with the 15th anniversary of the creation of the Shu.
Also, the Governor of Kurchum region instructed seisengazy Chukayev to visit JSC "Kazakhstan Center of Public-Private Partnership" and resolve the issue of obtaining an economic conclusion of the project.
Currently, the company is introducing a new method of producing gold.
this city is now flourishing.
It is worth noting that the main goal of the competition is to stimulate domestic inventors, create conditions for them to demonstrate their qualifications and share their new products.
the mountains of this area have a more distant shape of headdress.
According to him, a total of 470 proposals and comments were voiced at reporting meetings.
on the agenda, as well as the development of draft rules on the digitization of the initial version of the materials of the Commonwealth cartographic and geodetic fund; there are questions of preparing proposals for the formation of a single geo-navigation space, the report said.
complex modern minimally invasive operations, performed by more than half of them without patient access, significantly speed up the process of recovery and recovery of patients.
It is worth noting that in the 59 steps of the National Plan, the need to attract investors in the field of energy efficiency was noted.
To develop entrepreneurship in the region, it is necessary to attract investment in the economy of the region and establish the work of local producers.
At the opening ceremony of the event, the deputy akim of the Shortandy district, erlan Muhammad, congratulated the gathered residents and guests.
The Hungarian State is also in the process of ratifying the treaty.
The scale and complexity of presidential reforms require joint efforts to solve them.
During the conversation, such large-scale events as the 20th anniversary of the constitution and kha, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh khanate were covered in detail.
entrepreneurs received the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Vietnamese Socialist Republic of Jumahans and the Ambassador of the Vietnamese Socialist Republic in Kazakhstan.
The conceptual model of the new labor code proposes to clearly define the limits of state intervention of the employer and the employee in labor relations, determining their responsibility and role, maintaining a balance of interests of the parties.	the conceptual model of the new labor code proposes to clearly define the boundaries of state intervention in the sphere of labor relations between employers and employees .	0,46
this year we already practice sending children to camp.	we also help those who have children or got sick , we try to pay as much as possible or give loans .	0,46
According to him, foreign tourism operators are interested in introducing the event at EXPO-2017 into their classic tourist packages.	according to her , there is an interest among foreign tour operators to include expo 2017 in classic tour package .	0,46
The use of alternative measures of restraint and non-custodial arrest has reduced the number of prisoners in the country to approximately 44.5 thousand over the past half year.	the use of measures of punishment not related to deprivation of liberty , for the past six months have allowed to reduce the number of prisoners in the country to nearly 44.5 thousand .	0,46
Of course, in terms of their peculiarities, biography and life history, each civil servant will be covered by selective measures in order to determine the correspondence of his position, "said A. Soloviev.
As noted, this principle resembles passing tests at school.
During the trip, the senator r.akhmetov.
The word of St. George's blood, a member of the scientific and expert group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, also sounded a lot.
I want to thank the rector of our university for his support.
At the invitation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, the college team takes part in republican, international sports events and competitions of young rescuers, repeatedly taking prizes, "the statement said.
In addition, additional funds were allocated in the form of investments of 7.5 billion tenge.
One of the priority areas of this work is information support for the state youth policy.
It is worth noting that medical insurance guarantees the citizen a real amount of medical services.
In general, according to the participants of the event, the event showed high interest in Kazakhstan, its achievements and long-term development plans.
the Serbian side can come with numerous proposals.	you have also met with representatives of the research institutes of agriculture .	0,46
A memorandum of cooperation was also signed between the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region and the Embassy of the Republic of Belarus in the Republic of Kazakhstan.	also governor 's office of pavlodar region and the embassy of belarus signed a memorandum on cooperation .	0,46
According to him, the total area of ​ ​ an 80-story building with a diameter of 8 meters with an underground part is about 26 thousand square meters.	it is considered to be the main point of the exhibition , which has no equals in the world .	0,46
and the museum has collected archaeological, ethnographic artifacts and cultural monuments from the early century to the present day.	the museum contains archaeological and ethnographic exhibits and cultural monuments from the ancient times to the present day .	0,46
patriotic songs of famous Kazakh composers were performed by officers.	officers sang patriotic songs and performed music of famous kazakh composers .	0,46
and in order for visitors not to wait for a queue, a special terminal is installed.	also there is a terminal in order to avoid queues , where each customer can register online .	0,46
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Majilis, cooperation in the field of transboundary water resources is one of the most important areas of strategic partnership between the two countries.	two strategic programs will make kazakh-chinese cooperation more fruitful .	0,46
During the action, special urns were installed in large trading houses of the region to collect items and clothes necessary for the school.	for this purpose in large trading houses of the region special containers for collecting of school supplies and clothes will be installed .	0,46
During the presentation of gifts, the head of the city noted the positive dynamics of the family and demographic situation in Almaty.	presenting the prizes , the mayor noted the positive dynamics of family-demographic situation in almaty .	0,46
it was accompanied by a symphony orchestra of works by the Kazakh composer Rinat Gaysin.	it passes to the accompaniment of the kazakh composer 's works - rinat guyssin .	0,46
they master their skills in transport and logistics centers of the world.	due to the service of dry port , vehicles are being transported from the eu to china and from china to the eurasian continent .	0,46
Deputy Head of the National Commission, Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Elena Tarasenko informed media representatives about the work to increase the relevance of the current national plan of 100 concrete steps "in accordance with the measures to create and implement a national project to strengthen the civil identity" my country. "
at the same time, it is planned to introduce new mechanisms for the transfer of land to private ownership.
Three identical schools will be opened in the Aral region, as well as another school and kindergarten - until September.
in the village of Algabas, Alatau district, the central Aksai street was cleared, 14110 cubic meters of solid household waste and mud were removed.
The personnel of the guard are prohibited from communicating with persons who arrived at the guard room, without taking into account the chief and his assistant in accordance with the charter, they are allowed only to answer the questions of the persons checking the guard.
The head of state noted the importance of comprehensive elaboration of the relevant bills for their introduction before the autumn session of parliament.
In addition, last year the road was extended from 43 to 51 km.
we will discuss this first.	but all the new economic conditions and processes affect all these branches .	0,46
the second direction is the transformation of shymkent into a third metropolis.	the second direction is the emergence of shymkent as the third megalopolis in kazakhstan .	0,46
according to the general instruction, the pipelines are put into operation only with testing.	it is noted that the pipelines will be connected only after the testing .	0,46
The delegation includes heads of major international companies and their regional representatives.	the purpose of the visit is to learn about investment opportunities of the region .	0,46
The heads of regions also reported to the head of state on the main results of the socio-economic development of the regions and the tasks for the coming period.	the governors also have reported to nursultan nazarbayev on the main results of social and economic development of the regions and objectives for the upcoming period .	0,46
35,076 residential facilities worth 288.1 billion tenge, 18,148 non-residential facilities worth 106.7 billion tenge were received, including 4,511 commercial facilities worth 73.9 billion tenge, 15 shares of legal entities worth 0.8 billion tenge, securities worth 4.0 billion tenge.	the commissions for the local authorities have received 42,266 applications for legalization of property located on the territory of the country totaling 399.6 billion tenge .	0,46
fathers taught their children how to fight.	fathers taught their sons .	0,46
The plan of the nation of deputies to the bill is 100 concrete steps.
the overhaul of the coking sugar plant and the reset gave us additional impetus.
In order to implement these measures, it is envisaged to improve the existing legislation in the field of socio-political stability and inter-ethnic relations.
it was recommended that the first reading consider draft laws relating to the draft Code of charitable, sponsorship and philanthropic activities, production of organic products, access to information and the labor code, and the bill on public councils - in the second reading with an accompanying document.
also at the meeting there is a cooperation group supervised by the deputy bakhytzhan ertayev.
The National Bank plans to switch to a floating exchange rate regime no earlier than 2017.	but taking into account the fact that the exchange rate against the dollar has reached the upper limit .	0,46
pre-selected model: construction and commissioning.
the memorandum was signed by the President of the Supreme Court, Michael Hwan, and the Chief Justice of the Doco Court.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the volume of housing commissioning in 2014 increased by 12.2%.
guests continued the trip in the museum of fishermen of the island.
The State will establish labour standards for the minimum level of guarantees and compensation to employees and strictly monitor compliance by the employer with these obligations.
Also, the theme of the exhibition was the theme "energy of the future."
During the conference, honored figures of Kazakhstan noted the importance of conducting research aimed at identifying and restoring the name of pride of the country whose names are cut off or forgotten.
the population of the province is 40 million, while the highest gross regional product in China is recorded here - 160 billion. US dollars.
The main shareholder of the bank is shinhanbank of the Republic of Korea, one of the largest banks in the world.
the added trade value will be 10-15% depending on the type of product.
In 2013-2014, 6 houses were renovated at the expense of the program participants' return funds.
the chances of changing the exchange rate in the near future are not so great.
Bidding is planned to be organized on July 7.
At a specially organized exhibition, customers got the opportunity to personally see and evaluate the quality of products.
the jury included famous Kazakhstani musicians.
small architectural samples and monuments are installed at stopping complexes.
Currently, 99.8 per cent of children in the country are provided with free education.
yurts and catamarans for summer recreation.
the application of this rule will facilitate the joint interaction of the bodies of the member States of the union.
A deputy from the White Road party visited the historical museum of local lore in Karaganda.
Note that these days full-time national teams and sports reserve received a new trainer-consultant, Russian biathlon specialist Valery Polkhovsky.
the increase in the number of users is not accidental - every year the number of services is growing on the portal.
At a meeting organized to exchange experience between the two countries, Malaysian delegates expressed their intention to build a world-class technical college in southern Kazakhstan.
We also note that rental apartments with the right of redemption are provided for a period of 15 years.
At the end of the meeting the guests were presented the project of the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
that is, the reforms carried out in the republic should correspond to the best world practice of the countries of this organization.
In addition, he noted that the method will increase the level of call control.
the parties agreed that the establishment of uniform requirements for the necessary processing of goods of the Union and the strengthening of requirements for the processing of goods in economic territories and free warehouses in the territory of the EAEU member states is a fair decision.
daily mathematical reports are published on the strategy2050.kz site regarding architectural works of the capital, each participant can offer his/her own solution.
The purpose of the event is to help people with disabilities in employment.
Recall that the region ranks third in the republic in milk production.
thus, educational institutions will be built almost at their own expense and transferred to the balance of the city.
The head of state noted in a telegram that Mr. Golovkin lived up to the hopes of Kazakhstanis who trusted him.
One of the main tasks of the region is the proper use of water sources.
highly qualified specialists of the clinic intend to continue to use this method in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases.
By the beginning of the plant, 153 people will be employed.
The conference was attended by heads and scientists of leading universities of the country, representatives of the regional court, prosecutor's office, justice, chamber of entrepreneurs.
the main bill provides for appropriate amendments to 5 codes and 6 laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and to the law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," in particular, it is planned to change the name of the declaration to a person who is a candidate for election activities.
Today, the event is held to widely inform entrepreneurs about the effectiveness of the green economy, as well as to widely discuss and solve emerging barriers to its implementation.
It should be noted that such a system is successfully used in the armed forces of Turkey and Kazakhstan.
The founder and sole shareholder of the fund will be the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said Duissenova.
the unemployment rate fell from 5.1% to 5.0%.
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, visited the kindergartens of Petropavlovsk under construction.
In Kazakhstan, more than 100 laboratories have the title ilac.
incomplete loading of milk processing facilities is lack of milk quality raw material volume.
Recall that from August 16-20 of this year at the 40th military base "otar" of the Zhambyl region, the VII international competition "Commonwealth Warrior" was held among servicemen of friendly armies.
The law adopted by Parliament will include improving the quality of budget planning and changing the presentation of the draft budget.
to date, the first drilling well is being developed, where the first methane gas stream is obtained when the flow rate intensifies.
Sunday is a family day in a family of kadirs.
As you can see, the schedule is very tight.
this competition actually shows which of the associations, military branches, military units have achieved the best results over the past year.
Kazakh servicemen who participated in joint sports competitions took 3rd place.
In addition, the places of destruction of 4 medieval cities were investigated, as well as the places of preserved monuments of historical and cultural significance.
As the chairman of the committee noted, the information space carries great risks in the field.
Elected judges become initiative coordinators of judges with less than 3 years of service.
it included the strong-willed balapans and the human ilkevichus, representing the interests of this sole shareholder.
The main events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will be held in this zone.
Recall that today there are nine types of innovative grants.
the implementation of this agreement will increase the turnover of sea transport and expand the field of the transcontinental corridor.
As the head of the party's parliamentary faction, Nur Otan, explained, this is due to standards that lead to an increase in the cost of oil and petroleum products.
As a result, the unemployment rate in Kyzylorda region for the 2nd quarter of 2015 decreased by 0.2 percentage points compared to the same period of 2014 and amounted to 5%.
There are no negative conditions in the implementation of immunization measures.
the bill changes the procedure for assigning a basic pension in connection with the length of participation in the pension system.	the bill provides the changes in the procedure of assignment of the basic pension , depending on the length of the pension system .	0,47
the head of the region examined these sites and examined the speed of karting cars.	actively participate in the competition the students were awarded prizes .	0,47
this gave a good impetus to each Kazakhstani in self-esteem.	a person feels more comfortable realizing who he is , what his origin , roots , native language are .	0,47
In order to meet the needs of the second five-year plan idmb, consultations have been developed on the successful implementation of the holding's educational programs.	recommendations on the successful implementation of education programs of the holding to meet the needs of the second five-year plan have been made .	0,47
At the same time, N. Nazarbayev noted that the leaders of the CIS countries fully agree that it is necessary to take modern effective measures.
For many years now, fire protection measures have not been implemented, "said the senior engineer of the fire control department of the Emergency Situations Department of Ust-Kamenogorsk, Tokishev genre library.
about half of the country's total trade and foreign investment is in the EU.
Senators will also consider a number of bills amending legislation on improving law enforcement and law enforcement services, as well as social protection of the population (first reading).
The head of state expressed confidence that the deputies will be responsible for the instructions and participate in important reform in the country.
249.6 thousand tons of processed fish are exported.
in this direction, work will continue on the development of a legislative framework for the creation of a single coordination center of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, it is expected to commission fitness centers in boiler houses and newly formed areas.
for example, in Europe salaries are very high.
in addition, since 2014, Kazagro has been financing the acquisition of breeding cattle on the domestic market.
the Astana circus, due to its "cosmic" architecture, will differ within the city.
Of these, loans were subsidized in the following areas: receipt of fixed capital and construction - 106 loan agreements (volume of subsidies - 69.7 million tenge), replenishment of working capital - 15 loan agreements (volume of subsidies - 2.7 million tenge); construction - 1 loan agreement (volume of subsidies - 814 thousand tenge).
In 2013, foreign countries represented 18 teams (Canada, Aksh, France, Australia, Germany, Denmark, etc.).
According to the business ombudsman, if there is a risk of reducing the business climate for projects, then he so far has the right to suspend the work of these projects.
The head of state also drew attention to the fact that P. Kagame made significant efforts to establish peace in his country.
During the event, a scientific and practical conference, a book exhibition and a gala concert are planned.
at the same time, the customs export procedure does not exceed half an hour.
and several points were not enough to get into the top three Permians.	a. tynysbek won a silver medal in ' hydrogeology ' , k. zhagiparova and a. nurulla got the bronze medals in ' general geology ' and ' kosmogeologiya ' .	0,47
firstly, it is necessary to toughen the punishment for those who have committed such a crime, secondly, to take them under strict control after serving their sentence, to protect them from information promoting child pornography, and fourthly, to regulate this problem at the border, "he said.
The Chairman of the Committee also noted that the networks were outdated.
this is 30% of jobs in small and medium-sized businesses.
among them 5 families, including 26 people.
all our athletes performing at this Olympics will actively participate in this competition, and everyone will advertise products produced in their regions.
a 901 meter platform is sufficient for takeoff.
our experience, taking into account our history, Kazakhstan from the first days was recognized as a worthy country to create a bank of low-enriched uranium, "he said.
today, all the necessary equipment has been delivered to the construction site, where more than a hundred people work daily and at night.
also economic workers carry out breeding work to obtain new types of trees adapted to local climatic conditions.
The third stage was the preparation of new educational programs of the Professional holding in the framework of 10 partner colleges in accordance with the second five-year management.
At the same time, he noted that the age of the participants in the event is from 19 to 42 years, while their next cities will be populated.
in addition, in addition to these packages, citizens participating in voluntary insurance will be able to receive medical services on a contractual basis.
According to Asset Issekeshev, today work is underway with the eidu to improve the investment climate.
The inclusion of Kazakhstan among a number of states fighting corruption is reflected in the anti-corruption strategy of 2015-20125, and we should unite on relevant events in 2017. kazakhstan 's accession to the group of states against corruption ( greco ) is provided the anti-corruption strategy for 2015 to 2025 .
Last year, one family from each region took part in it, this year, due to the large number of participants in each region, two families take part.
today, economic diversification can be more successful than in years when oil prices break.	in forming of the new economic approaches , it is important to take into account the new realities and take advantage of these opportunities , which requires flexible exchange rates to compensate for the negative effects .	0,47
on the main streets there are flags with a city day sign.	there are holiday flags with the logo of the day of the city , flower compositions on the main streets .	0,47
The main thing here is to reduce theoretical knowledge, increase the ties of industrial educational, educational institutions with employers.	the main thing is to increase experience and reduce theory , to establish partnerships with employers .	0,47
Our Kazakh pilots on Su-25 attack aircraft will also take part in this air show.	this air show will be attended by kazakhstani pilots on su-25 .	0,47
The relevant authorities of both countries annually determine the number of permits and the time of approval of the transport cargo.	international cargo transport also requires permits , valid for round trip for this cargo vehicle .	0,47
There is still a 20 percent conditional discount on the purchase of oil and gas companies.	so , until january 1 , 2021 , legal entities of the republic , where there are 75 % of kazakhstani citizens of the total number of workers , are provided with 20 % discount for subsoil use contracts .	0,47
Internet portal and encyclopedia of Kazakhstan, - said S.Zholdasbaev.
In addition, the public gathered in the central square was able to enjoy the imagination of talented young artists.
That is, as A. Zhakupov noted, at the same time as one convention, Kazakhstan is building relations with 19 countries.
On the eve of expo-2017, a place is provided for projects in the field of renewable energy.
the preparation of personal project transport, the technical parameters of which depend on the specific order, takes 4-5 months. as a rule , this machine is designed in accordance with the specific order .
In these cities, it is also planned to replace street lighting with energy-saving ones.
Currently, Kazakhstani athletes occupy the 20th place in the team event of the Universiade-2015.
The head of state noted that the main goal of the anniversary event is to strengthen the patriotism of all Kazakhstanis and ensure their spiritual prosperity.
The need for the construction of TPP-2 with non-growing growth is clearly spelled out in the approved schedule of heat supply to the city until 2020.
in fact, he works with each state body individually to create architecture.
this project is planned to be implemented at the expense of investment funds of the Republic of Korea in the amount of $1 million.
He also examined a number of economic structures in the areas of the head of the region and organized a meeting with its leaders.
To date, the total number of exhibits of the museum fund is more than 188 thousand.
in the future, housing for railway workers will be commissioned.
It is noted that in the city of Mamlyutka there are about 400 children of school age.
but the focus should be on increasing output in the oil region.
the memorandum is aimed at further development of railway engineering in Pavlodar region.
According to the expert, the role of antimonopoly authorities in the development of small and medium-sized businesses will be increased in Kazakhstan.
Kha is a political organization representing candidates for legislative bodies of the country.
according to him, each mechanical engineering point is a separate industry.
in the village of Damsa, Shortandinsky district, work is underway to reconstruct the building of the administrative center.
Measures are being taken to ensure efficient use of energy sources.	the new lamps have a long life - up to several decades and will improve the quality of lighting .	0,47
students of the children's dance village of Shieli district also witnessed the opening of a school with 900 seats.	another two 100-seat schools have been opened in arandy and sarybulak of kazalinsky ditrict .	0,47
when a person begins to lose his values, he faces many problems.	now we see that the impact of media is aimed at the world 's young population that still search for way in life .	0,47
road to school this year "and approved by deputy akim of Kyzylorda region.
I want to express gratitude and gratitude to the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, my colleague for the invitation to the event dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as to congratulate Kazakhstanis on an important event.	abdel uahab abdul expressed gratitude to the chairman of the supreme court of the republic of kazakhstan kairat mami for the opportunity to take part in the events dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the constitution of the republic of kazakhstan .	0,47
Viktor Khristenko (Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission) has worked for four years and currently expires, as well as expires all members of the board.	so , now the heads of states should give instructions to implement all these terms in the legal framework of the union treaty .	0,47
they all aspire to long-term partnerships.	all of them are set for long-term collaboration .	0,47
also d.akhmetov spoke about the situation at the Asia Auto plant.
in the structure of gross regional product, the share of production decreased.
Fortunately, an official letter will be sent to a private notary on this issue with a request to take him under strict control.
parts of the turbines in question can occupy 30.9% of the total cost of the turbine.
the analysis of corruption risks will be carried out by all anti-corruption actors.
the second is to improve the capacity to effectively monitor and manage the use of resources.
During the meeting, investors announced their readiness to open a pharmaceutical production plant in Almaty.
various seminars, conferences and other meetings on these issues will also be held.
since the process is continuous, it is a pipeline with no limit in length.	the end of the entire process is a withdrawal-roll device .	0,47
along the path of the great leader "based on materials collected by a historical and archaeological expedition.
for some time he offers to live in a crisis center, "said N. Borambayev.
the Iranian governor of the Mazandaran province of Rabi Fallah Jelowdor considers cooperation with the Mangistau region of the province important.
In turn, the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted that the book is interesting not only to contemporaries, but also to future generations.
Many teenagers noted that they see themselves in the ranks of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
the effectiveness of law enforcement agencies could be greatly enhanced by strengthening the coordinated role of prosecutors in integration processes and removing bureaucratic barriers.
Today, the South rowing team plays at the Asian Championships in Indonesia for a ticket to the Olympics.
In the special economic zone of the park of innovative technologies, a meeting was held with the participation of the Minister for Investment and Development of Asets Issekeshev, Mayor of Almaty Bauyrzhan Baibek and the General Director of the Autonomous Cluster Fund "Park of Innovative Technologies," representatives of the Itp Aea, the Kazakh press club reports.
Secretary of State Abdykalikova in her report on the implementation of social and gender policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan ranks 43rd in the ranking of global gender equality of the world economic forum.
When the delegates of the congress arrived on hospitable Kazakh land, they achieved their goals.
He noted that a subscription fee for residents of Kazakhstan will be installed on toll roads.
his geographical position, history and traditions, as one of the Serbian figures of the Holy Savva of Serbia said, allowed him to be eastern in the west, to be western in the east.
the purpose of the course training is to improve the professional level of junior non-commissioned personnel, to verify their knowledge within the framework of professional training, to master sergeants of military, technical and special knowledge in an amount sufficient for successful practical activities in accordance with the official purpose, to determine a common method of training and education, to introduce innovative, promising models and methods of training subordinates.
in 1st place, in 2nd place - the capital zulfia of the Baymyrzaev, in 3rd place - the Karaganda daurenbek of the Arken.
in the near future, some changes should occur.
The nominal rate on the loan is 10.5% per annum.
the provisions of the Code on Public Health and the Health System are forcibly identified by the draft Code of the part on clarifying the timing of consideration in court of materials on referral for treatment, as well as submitting an application for extension of the treatment period of a lying subject.
This year is celebrated as "the year of primary party organizations."
a model library will open in the village of Kurchasay, Aktobe.
At the public control of the Council of Public Consent, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan received more than 320 people.
there is an assumption that more than half of those who use drugs through the yen are infected with hepatitis C.
There is confidence that according to the results of 10 months of this year, preliminary indicators will be achieved. the region has a great potential to achieve better results .
the proposal involved criticism of the existing judicial system.
that the document is a document in accordance with international democratic standards, as well as on the rationale for the Western experience of non-governmental organizations.
after the solemn event, the servicemen laid flowers at the eternal fire and honored with a minute of silence the spirit of the soldiers who died in the Great Patriotic War.
an application in electronic form for receiving an online service, within one day the user's personal account receives a response in the form of an electronic certificate of state registration or refusal of state registration.
All investors say that during the aggravation of the geopolitical situation in the region, Nursultan Nazarbayev initiated 5 institutional reforms that contribute to achieving great success in the current investment climate, "said A. Issekeshev.
all exercises are deployed as part of six tactical episodes.
As of November 2 of this year, 3256 budget institutions were fully heated in the region.
As Keshubaev noted, the main goal of the institution was to create a powerful production base, so they were called a correctional labor colony.
In the armed forces, Sergeant Madhat Olzhabaev served for more than 4 years.
Thanks to monthly credit funds, he received many loans.
As noted in the message, this agreement will contribute to the development of trade between China and the member states of the union.
Ktz express carries out round-the-clock monitoring of containers of the Sino-European-Chinese direction.
Amending and supplementing existing anti-corruption legislation.
The implementation of the program will solve a number of issues in this area.	the specific target indicators were identified to solve these problems .	0,47
In general, the competition is the motivation of young people to create a strong family, "he said.
The Production Support Plan has shown its effectiveness.
on the other hand, basic labor opportunities and rights of employees are established, expansion is provided through individual collective agreements and agreements.
in Novosibirsk, the All-Russian tournament in honor of the master of sports of the Soviet Union Dmitry Panov ended.
At the same time, as A. Muradov noted, sovereignty and unity are the main principles of the development of the state.
among the necessary measures is the creation of new requirements for the systematization of Kazakh terminology.
at the same time, citizens will be fully confident that their letter has reached the judicial authorities.
A company representative told the head of the region that work on external engineering networks remained.
the growth rate of fixed capital investments in the agricultural sector surpassed other sectors of the economy.
In addition, a 36-apartment residential building and a swimming pool are being built in the Shortandy district.
The need to produce such a document is caused by the low volume of logging and the degree of processing.
ebolat Dossayev noted a positive trend in the growth of direct mutual investment.
The purpose of the program is to popularize book reading among children.
Significant funds are allocated to microcredit more than 500 manufacturers of finished products.
but for this to happen, a proper institutional environment should be formed.
increasing the share of Kazakh content and attracting domestic entrepreneurs.
Recall, on August 8, by a decree of the Head of State, the Governor of South Kazakhstan Region was elected by a peaceful chieftain decision.
The delivery of textbooks is active in the remaining areas.
Such a festival is prepared within a year, and we organized it in 2 months.
The most interesting zone of the Glubokovsky district - the village of Sergikha - was chosen as the venue for the training camp for no reason, that is, rivers, mountains, forests of this area helped rescuers work out the necessary and complex elements.
in addition, guests got acquainted with the development of the sports cluster in the region.
In order to congratulate the winners and participants of the festival on the completion of the event, which occupies a special place in the cultural life of the capital, a fair jury and teachers, representatives of the city akimat, representatives of the creative intelligentsia, guests and residents of the city gathered.
The green corridor is those who came to the doctor's appointment in the order of the electronic queue, the "yellow corridor" is those who came to the doctor's appointment in general, that is, patients in whom the problem must be resolved urgently.
this is a symbol of life and eternity, in which the great steppe nomads bear a special caster.
Earlier, our country imported similar products from China, Russia and Europe, "said the director general.
The keys to the apartments were handed over to the newcomers by the Governor of Pavlodar region.
and here Nursultan Nazarbayev puts forward many important initiatives.
the clinic staff will make a significant contribution to improving the health of the region.
in turn, z. Tsacheva, attaching historical importance to this official visit, paid special attention to its coincidence with the nominal dates in our state.
of which 23 are schools, 6 are kindergartens, 3 are other educational facilities.
according to him, the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium will contribute to the formation of an international system for the guaranteed supply of nuclear fuel.
Currently, loan agreements are being signed with second-tier banks participating in this program.
The director of the Ice TV channel noted that he dreams of art stars taking part in charity events.
despite this, it is important that we all live in peace and friendship in such wide Kazakh and Darkhan steppes.
During the event, more than one hundred and fifty trees and pine plantations were planted on the left bank.
in addition, it is planned to introduce a Japanese diagnostic system into Kazakhstani medicine.
According to the press service of the movement, according to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, according to the long-term forecast, the demand for working specialties in Kazakhstan will grow, especially by 2018.
such a responsible mission has the power of only Nursultan Nazarbayev - a real Eurasian, a supporter of competition, a consistent and wise world-class politician, "the preface to the book says.
after the completion of the paid strategy, Kazavtodor will continue to work on the development of a paid system on republican roads and attract strategic partners.
It should be noted that the essence of the contract is related to the provision of services and the performance of work on the preparation and implementation of the flight into space of the Kazakhstani cosmonaut a. Aymbetova and the rehabilitation of the astronaut after his arrival.
the number of publications of our scientists in world scientific publications has tripled.
for example, "ktj" uk "ak, kaztemirtrans" white, "caring locomotive," etc., "said A. Khachaturyan.
this important document reduces the length of transit container trains as much as possible.
Well-known Olympic prize-winners and champions of the country work as part of Almaty application committee.
that success could be directed towards repairing the damage caused by their crime.
Omsk children also presented their performances and mini-concerts to the guests.
The Code of Civil Procedure has been amended to bring the legal work of the country to the advanced level of world standards. next year kazakhstan will shift from a five-link to three-tier court system .
This document was signed by the chairman of the financial monitoring committee of the Ministry of Finance and the director general of the Japanese financial intelligence center of the National Public Security Commission.
currently, 298 citizens living in emergency housing are in line for a house.
In general, Almaty enterprises have a very wide space of cooperation with the Universiade.
we have extended the lease as long as possible so that the amount you pay monthly is as low as possible.
These enterprises have successfully launched thermal power plants in Germany, the Czech Republic, Russia and Pakistan.
moreover, primarily through an auction providing for an increase in the cadastral value of the land plot.	special auctions will be organized by the authorized bodies in order individuals and legal entities to buy it .	0,48
Lianyungan port could not be one of the largest Chinese ports without the participation of a Kazakh asset.	lianyungang port is among the ten largest ports in china , but with the participation of the kazakh assets it was not seen .	0,48
this advice should help address specific business issues.	but kazakhstan partners know the quality of ukrainian goods .	0,48
you not only created the state, but also made it a stable, prosperous and successful country, "said Mohammad ashraf Ghani.
At the meeting, Malaysian guests invited their South Kazakhstan colleagues to exchange experience.
the main symbol of the capital, his business card.
In addition, a number of norms have been introduced into the law aimed at improving the authority of the teacher and teacher.
I am sure that the full use of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian and Bako-Tbilisi-Kars railway lines will increase trade between Kazakhstan and Turkey many times, the Turkish minister concluded.
the competitiveness of the industry in how effectively regional natural resources are used.
In addition, the republic plans to open a mediation center for kha.
The main task of Kazakh society is peace and harmony.
The head of state noted that these initiatives will be a response to global and domestic challenges.
It is worth noting that last year a similar agreement was reached with Turkmenistan.
the draft guidelines were developed by the production policy department of the commission with the involvement of experts from the parties.
it also shows how great the potential of the Georgian tourism sector is.
Leading domestic entrepreneurs and foreign companies annually evaluate the results of project work of students and consider 49 universities of Kazakhstan as a personnel reserve of activists.
from. Assembly of parliaments of Turkic-speaking countries (Turkic-speaking), and from. Orasi - participant in the mission of observers from the inter-parliamentary assembly of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).
we are interested in all the efficiency of working with the livestock industry.
my homeland-Kazakhstan book covers the main aspects of the culture and history of the Kazakh people.
As noted at the plant, all "Belarusian" equipment will be equipped with an expanded range of suspended equipment manufactured by Kazakhstani enterprises at the request of the client.
I always pay warm attention to how we can meet with you and, thanks to common efforts, influence the world to become more comfortable and calm. for me it is always a pleasure to meet you and get your guidance on how we can make the world better and safer with joint efforts .
Currently, more than six thousand mothers with many children live in the city of Aktobe.
As the deputy noted, earlier attention was drawn to the fact that exporting companies would benefit.
the parties discussed the potential of the Kazakh-Brunei trade and economic community.
the fall in world prices for Kazakhstan's export products, the decline in demand in international markets and sanctions policies led to a decrease in Kazakhstan's trade and rail transport volumes.
In order to increase freight traffic, integrated transport services are provided throughout the country.
there must be only one intermediary between the subsoil user and the subnet. we need to develop mechanisms that will encourage mining companies to be engaged in exploration and increase of mineral reserves .
in the structure of the money supply, the share of deposits in July 2015 amounted to 91.2%.
According to him, requirements for developers are being established.
at least one of the 10 persons identified with diseases is returned to their homeland.
in turn, T. Kabil noted the importance of the theme of the exhibition, confirmed the participation of the Egyptian state in the exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital and noted that in the near future a commissioner of the national section of the exhibition will be appointed.
a similar situation is observed in neighbouring countries.
A special guest of the action was the author of the state coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the architect of the Malibek gendarbek and the author of the song "Blue Flag Shine."
1) strengthening measures for individual social programs to support low-income families; 2) establishing a unified approach to the definition of low-income families; 4) transition from an unconditional form of targeted assistance to a social contract system;
in his speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that in the 21st century, the main task of mankind should be to implement a strategy that completely eliminates the threat of war and eliminates its causes.	we are ready to lend a helping hand to the syrian people experiencing great difficulties , in particular , to provide food and medicine ,  she said .
The main crew flying to the international space station is Russian cosmonaut Sergei Volkov, Kazakhstani cosmonaut, 2nd month of flight engineer under the ep-18 program, astronaut of the European space agency Andreas Mogensen.
In January-July, trade increased by 23% in rubles.	we have extensive plans on joint oil production in the caspian sea .	0,48
when selecting, consider the correct location of the triangles that are each side of the pyramid.	in the solution , take account of the correct location of the triangles on each face of the pyramid .	0,48
It is worth noting that following the meeting of the commission, information on the distribution of grants will be published according to the lists of the Ministry of Education and Science, the country's leading websites and republican publications.	the information on the results of the commission will be published on the website of the ministry of education and science , national publications .	0,48
Thousands of twisted dancers and silver singers further warmed up the festive event.	there were young musicians , dancers , singers , artists , masters of applied art .	0,48
South Kazakhstan is a leader in the production of transformers and fabrics.	this region is a leader in cotton and transformers production .	0,48
As the Governor of Kyzylorda region noted, this year 6.5 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of 22 educational facilities in Kyzylorda region.	opening of the conference , governor of the region krymbek kusherbayev said that this year the region builds many educational facilities : once 14 schools and 2 kindergartens will be opened for the new academic year .	0,48
During the month, the participants will perform a number of works.	the expedition will last a month .	0,48
The agreement contains a number of provisions establishing rules other than those provided for by the current investment legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	article 12 provides the payment of compensation to the investor in case of the expropriation and nationalization of investments by the other party .	0,48
we're working on this.	we are working on it .	0,48
engines and apartments of airplanes and vertical airplanes undergo daily inspection.	engines and equipment aircraft and helicopters are being checked daily .	0,48
The ministry also put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating an open-air archaeological park on the territory of the museum-mound.	practice of functioning of such centers is implemented in accordance with the experience of foreign reserve museums .	0,48
according to him, as a result of the reduction in levels, the responsibility of the supreme court will also increase.	due to this reform , the responsibility of the supreme court is reduced .	0,48
The meeting discussed the current state and implementation of this mechanism in regions and industries.	the sides discussed the current situation of the ppp , development of this mechanism in the regions .	0,48
at the end of the meeting a. Zhumagaliyev invited representatives of Saudi Arab companies to take part in the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017" on the theme "Energy of the Future."
Vladimir Maltsev noted the acute problem of wear and tear of production facilities in the eao zone.
Warm days in greed meet the requirements for uninterrupted operation of solar panels.
It is necessary to create a bank shu, without which it is not necessary to talk about the economy shu.
the transport potential of justification is of interest to investors and people.
As part of the memorandum, Kazkommertsbank will provide a cash deposit and create an infrastructure for accepting cashless payments at EXPO-2017.
Let's remind, preliminary assessment of investments in infrastructure of JSC "Chemical park" Taraz "is 24.5 billion tenge.
After the meeting, officials of both sides took part in the Czech agricultural exhibition organized at the Atakent fair center, where they got acquainted with types of domestic products.
The event was organized by the World Anti-Doping Agency to coordinate and monitor anti-doping activities in sports.
During the first briefing in the center, a meeting was held with the adviser to the first deputy chairman of the party and the head of the central apparatus of the party, the kozhakhmetov genre.
The event was attended by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Adrian Elesov, the Commissioner General of the exhibition "expo 2015" bruno pasquino, as well as commissioners from Romania, Belarus, Slovakia and the UK.
specialists of health departments and medical organizations in many areas specially arrived in Karaganda on this issue.
in addition, the portal has a special section for managers and experts of the technology commercialization center.
In total, more than 300 military personnel from six countries took part in the competition.
The most popular portal service is to get address help.
in this regard, it is planned to create supplier development activities, which include the expansion of market ties of small businesses with the largest local and international corporations operating in Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also thanked China for guaranteeing unconditional negativity to the states of Central Asia - the parties to the Nuclear-Free Zone Treaty, drawing attention to the common position of our countries on many international issues.
In order to facilitate the life of people with disabilities, 8.1 billion tenge was allocated under the adopted "road map" for 2014-2015.
A number of issues not related to the statistical development programme for 2016-2020 are under consideration.
The head of state dwelt separately on all the historical events that took place on the territory of Kazakhstan.
Recall that 3 qualifying stages of the tournament were held throughout Kazakhstan.
engineering, technology.
The volume of expenses for these needs for 2014-2015 amounted to 1.3 billion tenge.
Following the meeting, it was noted that regular meetings are useful, in the framework of which it is important to discuss joint agribusiness proposals for making appropriate decisions in the direction of increasing competitiveness and further developing the integration of member countries of the union.
in this regard, the President of the Supreme Court ordered the heads of the regional courts to consider audio and video recordings of court hearings in previously examined cases.
it is also one of the requirements to be remembered for other travelers.
According to the expert, the ambitious program of President Nursultan Nazarbayev after reconstruction (plan of the nation) has become one of the factors of Kazakhstan's success in the global ranking of competitiveness.
there was also a need for perseverance in the logistics of agricultural structures.
These institutions, constrained by finances, are forced to turn to the state for help.
the next was the president of the "tea company" Mr. Henguang and the chairman of the "International Academy of Economic and Cultural Partnership" a new silk road. "
I passed the test, which was passed to me without passing the director, and did not look at the group on the ground.
Business Ombudsman becomes a member of the Presidium of the NPP.
there are more than 100 thousand apartment buildings in the republic and more than 28% of them require major repairs.	of them , more than 28 % requires the overhaul .	0,48
in addition, Karim Kokrekbaev visited a number of social facilities.	for 10 months it produced 1 258.8 thousand tons of cement .	0,48
a culture of peace and harmony. "
at the end of the conference - the ambassador d. Rector of the Wallachian University of the Batrushes met with the potash.
a meeting was held with Bulgarian parliamentarians.
- Today the main city of the country is distinguished not only by unique buildings, but also by unique identity.
after a constructive meeting of the cabiball of the Jacupes and c. Tsacheva signed a cooperation agreement between the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Assembly of Bulgaria.
During the meeting with Gunther-Hants, issues of improving the oncological service of children in Kazakhstan were discussed.
The works of masters of the wool pen in the 15th century depict the period from the reign of kerei and jungle to the era of kenesara khan.
work is also underway to restore the bridge located in the upper part of the cargo dam.
other congress participants who do not participate in master classes monitor the progress of the operation through video shooting.
According to the report, as of October 16, 2015, according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 3.0 billion tenge.
China's share in World War II is not estimated.	i make a state visit at the invitation of president xi jinping on the eve of a very big historical event .	0,48
Within the framework of the event, sectional fees were held in seven main areas of the program: a comfortable city, a safe city, a social city, a city of economic stability, business and private capital, an integrated city, a city of active citizens.	the event also included breakout sessions in seven priority areas of the programme : convenient city ; safe city ; city for peoples ; sustainable city ; the city for business ; integrated city ; and active citizens .	0,48
As the deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan Itimova noted as a participant in the session of the UN General Assembly, the audience and the secretariat of the organization in the UN General Assembly actively reacted to the proposal.	how deputy senate byrganym aitimova said , the secretariat of the un also responded to the unexpected proposal .	0,48
alliance is enshrined in a collective security treaty, and in economic terms, in the charter documents of the eurozone.	today , all the relevant documents have been prepared .	0,48
the number of particularly serious criminal offenses increased by 109.2%, serious crimes - by 11.4%, especially serious - by 8.5%.	the number of criminal offenses of minor gravity has been increased by 109.2 % , severe category - by 11.4 % and very serious kinds - by 8.5 % .	0,48
flight training of personnel of airmobile troops of Kazakhstan is an integral part of combat training.	the mountain training is an integral part of combat training of servicemen of airmobile forces of kazakhstan .	0,48
here are united the best traditions of domestic pedagogy, modern achievements of the world educational process.	the best traditions of national education are integrated with the latest developments in the global educational process .	0,48
The main emphasis is placed on the fact that every Kazakhstani has the opportunity to contribute to the implementation of the patriotic activity "Eternal Country."
on half of the buses there are devices designed for people with difficult traffic.
According to preliminary plans, the financing of SMEs for 8.5 years amounted to 1,200 entrepreneurs.
It is worth noting that after the creation of the mediation center, a school of mediators will be opened.
Recall, Maxim was a multiple champion of the district in Kazakh wrestling.
Also, Prime Minister Karim Massimov instructed the akims of the regions to conduct an audit of industrial projects implemented under the second five-year plan of the state program.
In the village of Khan of the Horde of Bokeyorda district, the Deputy Prime Minister took part in the celebrations dedicated to the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
the new model program includes the section "Anti-corruption policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
the most popular of them is the Sino-European-Chinese route.
The board meeting was attended by state authorities of the EAEU member states and independent analysts.
For money received on credit, a kayak ball was acquired by a foam receiver and about 100 samples of tin.
After comprehensive reporting on each step of 5 institutional reforms, the meeting unanimously noted that if these reforms are implemented, the strategic goal of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 competitive countries that meet domestic and external challenges in the current situation will be achieved.
fourth, an assessment will be made of the possibility of introducing factoring, which allows for the procurement of goods, works and services for entrepreneurs, "said the Vice Minister.
when it is entered into the public service, only minimum-level services will be provided, in the future the employee will gradually reach the highest positions.
the winners were recognized by the chest and Novonikol rural districts.
Currently, agreements have been concluded with the first 3 business entities.
the transaction will be completed after receiving agreements from government regulators.
President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin presented the order to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the official reception as part of the brix and shu summits in Ufa.
Chief Marshal of Artillery N. graduate of the Penza Artillery Engineering Institute named after Vornov, holder of a diploma with honors, lieutenant alikhan bazarbayev will be sent to serve in the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
irregular passenger transportation should be carried out with control documents, "the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said in his report.
at the regional level, we have not retained human rights mechanisms.
unlike remote ones, the city type is similar to a sample of this headgear.
the stamina and agility of young rescuers played a decisive role in the obstacle course.
recently, the decline in prices for exchange goods and oil, raw materials.
its compiler is the Association of Historians of Kazakhstan public foundation.
the increase can direct half of the grant to improve its material and technical base.
this is the owner or document confirming the hiring of privately owned land.
and the silver medalist of Kazakhstan from workout street, the Shymkent hamit asylbekov at the military-patriotic gathering took part in competitions in raising and cooling the abdomen.
the new plant will produce full-cycle drip irrigation equipment.
Kazakhstan does not have an educational institution for training people in glass production.
I got to Belarus for the second time, and to the Grodno region for the first time.	they discussed the issues of interregional partnership .	0,48
it is obtained by utilities with ties to small financial institutions.	also the long-term investment rates are provided .	0,48
the average repair covered about 20 districts.	all the road services , road surface , pedestrian ways , walkway have been renovated .	0,48
extremist and terrorist organizations maintain a high level of funding.
The main goal of the competition is to strengthen the unity and social harmony of the population, as well as the promotion of state language policy among members of law enforcement and other military organizations.
Zhanaozen B. Saparbayev visited Rechmunaigas, a white underground equipment repair company, where he got acquainted with the production process, and also met with workers of oil and gas enterprises.
hot meals are organized in greenhouses for receiving victims and medical psychological assistance is provided.
the monument is located opposite the taraz arena sports palace in the western part of the city.
Ahmed Friday, in turn, praised the Abu Dhabi Plaza complex under construction in the capital as a vivid sign of sincere friendship and intensive interstate cooperation between the heads of the two countries.
this list is a symbol of tolerance, religious tolerance and friendship.
Together with the Ministries of Education and Science and the Interior, a project is being implemented to create training modules for health and education systems on suicide prevention.
The decoration of the art festival was wi-fi trees.
It was also decided to review this issue in the first quarter of 2016.
Customs authorities work on a large scale in each of these areas, "N. Marusich explained.
when there are many nations in the state - this is wealth, consent is a great success.
and Mr. Zhang wei also noted that he would accept the invitation of the head of the Ili district on partnership, who plans a trip in the near future.
the existence of different natural climatic zones will allow us to become competitive in many areas. the variety of climatic zones , the quality of the soil allows our country to be competitive in different areas : in the production of wheat , rice , oilseeds , fodder crops , meat and dairy .
During emergency rescue operations, more than 40 cubic meters of swamps were removed from the basement of secondary school No. 192.
problem loans issued in foreign currency will be refinanced at the official rate of the national bank, established before the introduction of a free floating rate, under a loan with a judicial act - at the official rate of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of the date of the court act.
The event discussed the application of innovative technologies in the hydrocarbon industry.
In 2015-2016, 599 schools operate in the Akmola region.
and among the children were famous, knowing the scene.
The Irtysh basin ranks third in Kazakhstan in terms of fisheries.
The Ambassador of India assured that he would be engaged in the opening of the monument in the main Indian city.
also visited social facilities for women's businesses and housing for victims of trafficking.
Aktobe ferroalloy plant and Don mining and processing plant are located here.
in connection with these measures, the remaining jobs amounted to 1,504 units.
Recall that the feast center, established in 1994, is the leading non-governmental organization in Russia operating in the field of international security, non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons.
27,563 residential facilities in the amount of 221.9 billion tenge, 14,397 non-residential facilities in the amount of 90.2 billion tenge were received, of which 3,593 commercial facilities in the amount of 62.3 billion tenge, 14 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge, securities in the amount of 3.2 billion tenge.
Since 2012, work has been underway at the Peter and Paul TPP-2 to replace turbocharged and boiler aggregators.	commissioning of the new equipment at the thermal power plant will not only increase the possibility of stations , but will also provide the growing needs of the region in the heat and electricity .	0,48
According to doctors of the Republican Scientific and Production Center for Transfusiology, blood donation has no harmful consequences for the donor.	as the doctors of the republican scientific production center of tansfusion , blood donation does not have any harmful effects to the donor .	0,48
The history of application of the draft Constitution at the referendum was realized due to the unity of the Kazakh Enos.	originally a historic role in support of the draft constitution in the referendum belongs to the unity of all ethnic groups on the patriotic basis .	0,49
in addition, a team of Kazakhstani sniper troops took part in classical shooting competitions on an electronic stimulating simulator.	kazakhstan 's team of military snipers took part in the competition on the classic shooting on electronic simulators .	0,49
In recent years, a number of legislative initiatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been adopted to improve legislation in the field of protection of the rights of adolescents.	with the support of members of the parliament of kazakhstan a number of legislative initiatives to improve the legislation in this area was adopted .	0,49
according to the terms of the contract, its value will depend on the market mechanism.	the contract provides for a market pricing mechanism .	0,49
an important event of the conference - an agreement was reached on the creation of an association of entrepreneurs of the Kazakh-Chinese food industry.	one of the key achievements of the conference was an agreement on the establishment of the kazakh-chinese food industry entrepreneurs association .	0,49
Director of the Kazakh Institute of Scientific Research under the President of Kazakhstan erlan karin will take part in the press conference.	the press conference will be attended by the director of the kazakhstan institute for strategic studies yerlan karin .	0,49
it is planned to make about 200 combat skydiving from the airmobile troops of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	skydive water plan about 200 servicemen of airmobile troops of the armed forces of kazakhstan .	0,49
Note that such press tours will be held in the future.	the first press tour is devoted to the harvesting campaign .	0,49
the new initiative of the Consulate General was taken into account by diplomas of the Ministry of Culture and Sports.	as a result , after one month employees improved their knowledge of the state language by 30 % ,  - r. dosymbekova said .
we ourselves experienced difficulties with various checks, obtaining licenses.
as soon as possible, our city has become one of the best in the world.
In addition, measures are provided for the mandatory implementation of electronic invoices, electronic supporting documents for goods, electronic certificates on the performance of work performed and services provided. we also introduce mandatory use of electronic invoices , electronic invoices for provided goods and electronic acts of performed works and services .
in the second section - proposals for changing the country's legislation.
On these questions, the deputies gave concrete answers and instructed representatives of the competent authorities to take appropriate measures.
The Central Communications Service under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan begins a cycle of press tours, demonstrating specific affairs in the domestic economy.
According to the project of the Alexander Vinokurov Sports Palace, there are three functional blocks: an athletics arena, an ice rink and a school of cyclists.
Amendments of 5 positions do not change the conceptual provisions of the bill.
lost cultural code (specifics).
citizens of all regions of Kazakhstan and foreign countries will take part in it.
this situation will significantly improve the credibility of the court.
friendship of the people was considered one of the highest values.
Within the GPZ of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the construction of a workshop for the production of foam block, sand, gas block is planned in the region.
There, an experienced instructor, a veteran of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, reserve colonel Vladimir Shikhalev, prepares radiomamans.
This year's favorable weather conditions make it possible to hope for a large harvest this year.
apartments are allocated to state employees and low-income families.
As it is noted, the Governor of Almaty region on a working trip visited the Kerbulak region.
the victory settled on each of the projects being implemented.
The draft Labour Code is designed to implement 100 concrete steps to implement the national plan - five institutional reforms (83 steps).
The Ambassador also called on the delegation of the Majilis of the Parliament to visit their countries on an official visit, noting that this will contribute to the strengthening of bilateral relations, including inter-parliamentary partnership.
That is, the quality of training in Kazakh-speaking schools is growing.
Let Kyzylorda region become a pilot zone for the development of this category of enterprises, "the Governor of the region said.
competitions of young rescuers consisted of several stages.
in the village of Tolybay, Aytekebi district, a club will open.
Green reserves of Almaty are updated annually, it is planned to intensify flower farming, more than 35 thousand trees and seedlings are planted annually in the city.
Speaking at it, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Vladimir Bozhko noted that the country, as the main donor, that is, a supplier of humanitarian assistance, plays an important role in the implementation of regional initiatives and mechanisms in the field of emergency situations.
this demonstrates our country's recognition as an integral part of the global economy.
Under this program, water and heat supply networks are being modernized.
and the prospects for their interaction with the European Union.
representatives of the Ministry heard the applicant and noted that work would be carried out on this issue.
he finishes on the mountain ulytau, who recognized the Kazakh khans.
Representative of the Department of Quality Control and Coordination of the Financial Control Committee of the Ministry of Finance D. Kurmangalieva spoke about the main directions of the transition to state audit and financial control, covering all areas of the executive body.
The purpose of the project is to increase the efficiency of the Kyzylorda region akimat through modern information and communication technologies.
the number of requested documents from the service recipient is reduced, only in 2015 the number of documents decreased by an average of 20%.
it is also necessary to study how important the road with growth is - to the city of Serebryansk on the Zyryansk highway.
During the meeting, the issues of deepening political interaction between Kazakhstan and China, developing trade and economic cooperation, strengthening inter-parliamentary relations, strengthening cultural relations, as well as topical issues on the agenda at the international and regional levels were discussed.
First of all, an exhibition of crafts and drawings was presented, made by pupils of a children's special boarding school with visual impairments in the districts and the city, a regional children's rehabilitation center, a children's neuropsychiatric boarding school and a special boarding school for children with hearing impairment.
By the end of the year, it is planned to transfer another subsidiary.
If we talk about the results of the first half of the year, then not a single industry has decreased.
From next week he will begin metal structural work.
there was also an exchange of views on the creation of a professional general corps of public servants.
Eaeo connects the leading states located along the silk road.
the city of burgas resort, located near the burgas bay on the Black Sea coast, is one of the largest cities in Bulgaria after sofia, plovdiv and varna.
For three days, competitions were held at sports grounds in the region.
electronic knowledge will certainly contribute to finding jobs through the Internet, the use of various social networks and online e-government services.
the average repair covered 1,077 km of roads.
It is worth noting that we have more frequent cases of seizure of hashish drugs.
Now is the time when loneliness does not sound, a lonely person cannot do anything.
the implementation of these measures will contribute to increasing literacy and awareness of the population about family planning and its importance, promoting a healthy lifestyle, as well as giving children and youth of high quality, Kazakhstani patriotism, civic responsibility and moral and spiritual development, based on the national idea of ​ ​ "Eternal Country."
sporting and cultural events were also held during the exercises.
a favorable investment climate, a rich raw material base, the geographical location of the region create favorable conditions for attracting investment in our economy.	currently , the body started to implement a project with the participation of korean capital .	0,49
The people of Kazakhstan unanimously supported 5 institutional reforms and 100 concrete steps called by Nursultan Nazarbayev in support of the head of his nation in the recent elections.
the last part of the symposium was held at the entrance to the regional museum of art in Aktobe.
students of our school should have a bachelor's degree if they enter Kazakhstani medical schools after graduating from 11th grade.	however , the other difference is that in the first year the students will have the clinical practice and patient contact .	0,49
The fair will be held from 10:00 to 14:00.	the fair will be held from 10am to 2pm .	0,49
During the presentation of the school, the head of state, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, left an entry in the book of honorary visitors.	he wished to pupils to become worthy citizens of the country , faithful defenders of independent kazakhstan .	0,49
life expectancy of children increased by 3.58 years.	life expectancy of children with diabetes has increased at 3.5 years .	0,49
due to the lack of potential buyers, the auction was declared unsuccessful.	given the lack of potential buyers the auction is declared failed .	0,49
this amount itself finances coal mining and cost recovery under the contract.	this amount includes the cost of coal and all the required payments under the contract , including taxes .	0,49
According to the regional Governor's Office, the Department of Statistics has studied the activities of small enterprises in the region.	according to governor 's office of the region , the department of statistics has studied the activities of small enterprises in the region .	0,49
because in some areas elequators unfavorable for agricultural producers are established.	there is a tendency of purchase of grain drying units and the construction of silos in the region , which , according to experts , significantly reduces the cost of farmers for drying and storing grain .	0,49
As follows from the report, tree planting is carried out in regions with different climatic conditions of Kazakhstan, therefore, representatives of the local forestry industry showed a specific date for the event.	the tree planting will take place in kazakhstan 's regions with different climatic conditions , so the local foresters have determined the exact date of the event .	0,49
Governor's offices of the regions, cities of Astana and Almaty were instructed to ensure the full implementation of all repair campaigns and planned events, timely prepare all facilities of the communal sector and social sphere for the heating season with the approval of deputy responsible akims, as well as take measures to prevent the growth of receivables and current debts for utilities.	administration offices of regions , cities of astana and almaty are instructed to ensure full implementation of all repair campaigns and planned activities .	0,49
Each of the three boiler houses is capable of heating an area of ​ ​ 7 thousand square meters.	the contractors install the new equipment , which will reduce the cost for heating .	0,49
In order to improve the quality of advocacy, the department has established close relations with the metropolitan bar association.	in order to improve the quality of legal services the department established close cooperation with the bar association of the capital .	0,49
mourning history is closely related to the name of the great poet Abay Kunanbaev.	the history of karkaralinsk city is associated with the name of great kazakh educator abai .	0,49
Masters of leather gloves headed by trainer Konstantin Rybinsky won a gold medal in weight category 81 kg, vadim Cossacks won a silver medal in this weight, and Sabyrzhan Bekbergenov won another silver in weight category 64 kg.	coach is konstantin rybinsky , and boxers nurdaulet zharmanov ( 81 kg ) won the gold medal , vadim kazakov ( 81 kg ) and sabyrzhan bekbergenova ( 64 kg ) took  silver " medals .
i. Madani stressed the importance of the efforts of international organizations closely associated with Islamic countries in preserving the Islamic heritage and monuments destroyed as a result of terrorist acts.
pedagogical teams of schools and colleges of the city are trying to implement this task, "the report said.
I confidently replied that no.
The Special Representative of the President of the Russian Federation for International Cultural Cooperation notes that thanks to the activities of Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan is highly respected not only in the region, but also in the world.
this was done for surgical or religious purposes, is still unknown.
the share of investments in housing construction in the total volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 13.2%.
there is beautiful nature and rich history.
Today, the country's only laboratory for testing ammunition and explosions has been created, a workshop for testing anti-aircraft guided missiles has been launched.
we are ready to increase cooperation in these areas, as well as consider your proposals for the implementation of projects, "the mayor said in conclusion.
In this regard, the President noted the readiness of Kazakhstan to conclude an agreement on cooperation on scientific and technical issues.
In addition, the Governor of Kostanay region is scheduled to meet with the Governor of Sverdlovsk region.
in addition, it was noted that experience on certification of railway transport products should be shared between research institutes and production enterprises and consumers, testing centers.
12 residents of Semipalatinsk turned to the deputies on various issues.
At this event, the academy was officially accepted as a member of the global network of the eidu management school.
It also provides for the improvement of state monitoring measures for greenhouse gas control.
there is no development when people do not live in spiritual understanding and harmony with each other.
One of the positive innovations contained in the document is the legislative consolidation of the composition of the supreme judicial council, "said Supreme Court Judge Kassymov.
these criteria were adapted to the requirements of the study, by reducing efficiency, "the expert added.
The issue of an emergency school will be resolved within 2 years.
the principle of tolerance had led Kazakhstan to openness and dynamism.
in accordance with it, the commission, together with the Eurasian Economic Union, is obliged to develop a procedure for financing and organizing joint research in the field of oath of the EAEU member states.
In this regard, the construction of a plant for the production of hot briquetted iron was an urgent issue on the agenda.
at the same time, it should be noted that cyber technologies are now widely used in the world in order to militarize cyberspace and build the capacity of its military operations.
farmers are already paying special attention to this event throughout the republic, which should become the second stage of the upcoming program to strengthen the export potential of grain.
In his speech, the Prime Minister noted the importance of this conference and the international exhibition expo on the theme "energy of the future" in Astana in 2017.
the interview was held as part of a regional seminar on explosive ordnance disposal in Almaty.
Askar Zhumagaliyev and Sergey Kiriyenko discussed topical topics of intersectoral cooperation, exchanged views on the implementation of a comprehensive program in the field of peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Apply their qualifications in the public service.
thus, the water level increased, salinity decreased, fish fields intensified.	everything was begun 10 years ago with the construction of kokaral jumper .	0,49
A. Rakymzhanov told the audience about the activities of the majilis and lawmaking.	a.rakhimzhanov informed the participants on the activities of the majilis .	0,49
The Internet has become one of the main infrastructures of the life of modern society.	in recent years , the center has examined cybersecurity , including information security and global internet governance .	0,49
to the left and right of the face value is an element of the national ornament.	nickel silver alloy coin 's weight - 11.17 grams , diameter - 31 mm , circulation - 1 thousand pieces .	0,49
the company-tactical group, surrounding the enemy, performed actions to destroy it.	the company commander task force surrounded the enemy and take steps for their destruction .	0,49
in addition, the number of rural settlements covered by regular passenger services through new routes opened in 2014 reached 5,200 units, which is 78.5% of the total number of such settlements in Kazakhstan for 6,623 units.	along with this , the work on bringing the existing bus and motor stations in accordance with the requirements of the legislation and national standards in the sphere of passenger transport is carried out .	0,49
Recall that on the eve of professional holidays, a group of medical workers received the keys to new apartments in Kokshetau.	on the eve of the professional holiday the medical team received the keys to new apartments in kokshetau .	0,49
On this day, the mayor of the city visited the clinic for 500 visits per day.	also , mayor visited the polyclinic , opened three months ago .	0,49
records of the participants of the Kakh expedition, "a member of the scientific expert council of kha. presentation of the scientific study "history of the great steppe" of kha, which will be conducted by the head of the department "History of Kazakhstan" of excavations named after George Blood and al-Farabi.
It is worth noting that the foundation of a secondary school, which is carried out by the Emirati side, has been laid in the capital.
So, for 4 months of this year, the number of corruption offenses decreased by 64% compared to the period of 2014, that is, from 28 to 10 cases.
The bill provides for the creation of control centers for the following bodies, the boundaries of which indicate a clearly marked territory.
In addition to cash prizes, the authors managed to conclude agreements with large publishers to publish their works.
As the head of the committee noted, measures are being taken to prepare the delegation of the country for the quality performance of the Kazakh team at the Olympic Games.
the representative of unisef in Kazakhstan was fully satisfied with the information in the field of health, education, culture and gave positive assessments of the pace of development of the island.
How did we have the main problem in employment?
I am the mother of two children, I go to university myself.	one of the citizens was resident of saryagash town makpal turlybekova .	0,49
Governor of the region Alik Aydarbayev congratulated the peers of the Constitution and handed over memorable gifts.	governor of the region alik aidarbayev has congratulated the peers of the constitution and handed them prizes .	0,49
During the solemn meeting dedicated to the propaganda of state symbols, specialists who have joined the ranks of our employees will solemnly take the oath.	according to him , the day of the state symbols - a special holiday for the department of emergency situations .	0,49
not lower than the candidate for master of sports.	it involves sport masters and candidates from all regions , astana and almaty .	0,49
A feature of the current season are flower beds with axe compositions.	one of the fashion trends of the season in the metropolis is topiary composition with flower beds .	0,49
Thus, according to the results of the purchase, 5 of 26 objects put up for auction in Almaty were sold in Zhambyl and Aktobe regions.	the best results are observed in zhambyl and aktobe regions , the worst - in almaty .	0,49
however, it is obvious that the crisis will reveal the steps of manufacturers who have already begun work.	at the meeting , minister for investments and development of the republic of kazakhstan asset issekeshev has told about measures taken in the sphere of attracting investments .	0,49
always supports all initiatives of the children of erbolat and Ainur.	yerbolat and ainur strongly support the initiatives of their children .	0,49
In his congratulations, Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan expressed confidence that Kazakh-Armenian integration will continue to develop in the bilateral format, as well as in the framework of international and regional organizations and associations in the name of friendship and well-being of Kazakh-Armenian peoples.	armenian president serzh sargsyan expressed confidence that the kazakh-armenian cooperation will continue to develop in the interests of friendship and welfare of the peoples of kazakhstan and armenia .	0,49
if any, follow-up may not be too active.	those who have chosen this profession , remain faithful to the end .	0,49
these contributions are not considered the property of citizens and will be registered in the conditional pension account of each employee opened in a single funded pension fund (npf).	however , the right to pension payments by employers ' contributions ( the maximum size of not more than two living wages ) will be accessible for the persons who have reached retirement age , with contributions by the employer to transfer the conditional retirement account for at least 60 months , and disabled groups i and ii , which are installed permanently disabled .	0,49
some human rights activists noted that the document would become a mechanism for the civil sector.	in general , the main idea is to expand the freedom of access of ngos to the state , national and international funding .	0,49
according to the scenario, military personnel of the "Astana" units, as well as employees of the regional department for defense affairs, were alarmed, the commander said the order to study the conditional sabotage group, create a full-fledged action plan, carry out capture and destruction, "the statement said.
One of the results of your fruitful activity as President of Kazakhstan was the creation of a stable network infrastructure and a stable energy system, which cannot be swung by any shocks, "the letter says.
about the governor. He highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence and expressed confidence in the active participation of the provincial business community in trade and economic relations with Kazakhstan.
this room is designed for 100 visits per day.
Over the years of independence, it is impossible not to note the contribution of the head of state to the development of the region.
the clinic will serve more than 80 thousand residents of the left-bank capital, "the statement said.
b. abdrasilov emphasized the high qualification and great professional potential of faculty and achievements in the implementation of experimental-oriented scientific research.
5 grants worth 15 million tenge were allocated for the implementation of new business projects.
At the meeting of the commission, the head of the region by conference call heard the reports of akims and heads of departments of all districts and instructed to ensure that no problems arise in the heating season.
on the Chinese side, the working group included representatives of the Chinese bank in Kazakhstan.
The idea of ​ ​ these games as the highest forum of art is to educate young people to increase interest in tolerance and interethnic culture, increasing and preserving the country's cultural heritage.
The sides noted the traditional development of Kazakh-Romanian relations and the further development of the strategic partnership.
it was very interesting, the guests gathered a lot.
In addition, the development fund expects to finance more than 1300 borrowers, who, in turn, will create 3,000 new jobs.
a group of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan is formed from selected military personnel.
the charity event is aimed at strengthening Kazakhstan's unity and peace.
During the 170th anniversary of Abai, the main emphasis is placed on the semantic, educational side.	the website publishes articles and works of domestic and also foreign scientists .	0,49
That is, the educational institution does not have clear limits of work, it trains specialists only on the demand of the enterprise, "A. Koval explained.
Following the meeting, specific instructions and recommendations were given to state bodies.
the document provides for simplification of procurement rules and reduction of corruption risks.
The design capacity of the plant is 250 thousand pieces of products per year.
also this installation will improve the environmental situation in the city.
in all directions it overcomes the route ready for competition within 6-7 days.
Danial Akhmetov paid special attention to the issues of employment of local residents.
all visitors got acquainted with the offices and wished good luck to the medical team.
In accordance with the rules of the meeting, the heads of the railway administrations of Lithuania and Estonia came to the meeting.
homogeneous accumulative contribution amounted to 327 million 796 thousand tenge.
And today we systematize it and offer it to the general public, "said the deputy director of the museum of the first president of Kazakhstan.
according to him, the idea of ​ ​ reforms is to show in what direction and how Kazakhstan is moving.
It presents the technologies used in this industry and the range of packages manufactured around the world.
In 2013, 27 hectares of land were planted for the first time.
According to him, each bill under consideration has its own history.
today's tournament is its beginning and takes place among representatives of the media.
lower tomato prices led to the fact that cheaper products that grew in open ground began to be brought to the market.
during which an ongoing repair of the engineering infrastructure of the enterprise was carried out.
a great silk road has passed through our region.
The head of the region Danial Akhmetov gave specific instructions following the meeting.
For example, in honor of the anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the library has been offering its readers a large book exhibition since January.
Askar Zhumagaliyev thanked the head of the region for his participation in the organization of relocation of offices.
Also, the most recent object to which the akim of the region was raised was Akmola Wheat LLP.
In relation to N.Nurbekov, judicial acts were canceled regarding administrative liability in the form of a fine of 15 months and deprivation of the right to drive a car for 1 year.
The agenda of the plenary meeting provides for the continuation of work on bills on charitable, sponsorship and philanthropic activities with accompanying amendments.
and on Abylay Khan Avenue, one house was renovated at the expense of returned funds.
In order to effectively implement the project, we allocate fertile land in one of the districts of the region, "the akim of the region said.
also the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway opens access to the seaports of Pakistan.
The museum "ancient taraz," located in the same complex as the archaeological park, will serve as the basis for the development of the taraz city as an economic and cultural center along the international highway.
the most serious test for girls was lying under a tank.
The conceptual model of the new labor code proposes to clearly define the limits of state intervention of the employer and the employee in labor relations, determining their responsibility and role, maintaining a balance of interests of the parties. the new labour code proposes to clearly define the boundaries of state intervention in labor relations .
of these, 6,000 people were employed.
Thirdly, the crisis raises the question of women's productivity and professionalism. the third - conditions for women employment .
The head of state noted that the potential of mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and a number of countries is not fully used, and stressed the need to bring our trade and economic relations to a higher level.
it is not in vain that this region appears in the poems and works of Saban Mukanov and Madi Bapiula.
Main objective of a business forum is acquaintance of the Hungarian audience with prospects and a condition of bilateral cooperation in the economic sphere, the main aspects of new monetary policy and investment attractiveness of the country and also the course of early implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 program, the new economic policy "Nr zhol" and the 100 concrete steps program, - it is said in the statement.
Hero of Kazakhstan came to the Cup of Kazakhstan and came to the opening.
At the same time, 20 units of modern weapons and protective equipment were allocated.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
Yuri got acquainted with the artifacts of fishing preserved before the eyes of oxamite antiquities, a small model of ships, a letter of Lenin to fishermen and portraits of the Minister of Fisheries.
it will become a road map for the future of the united nation of Kazakhstan.
One of the directions of buudb is the exclusion of the rule of law, the judicial system as a guarantor of the development of the country, the guarantee of rights, principles in the activities of state bodies.
As you know, in the world we are moving on uranium, that is, on the volume of development and the volume of reserves.
for active participation in this exhibition both substantial and large-scale representation of a display at the exhibition to management of tourism of the Akmola region the international certificate of the exhibition company "iteca" is handed.
the remaining places were taken by Kyrgyz and Iranian states.
Also, the Secretary of State emphasized to the forum participants the role of women in the implementation of five institutional reforms for the comprehensive modernization of the country, proposed by the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
The conference was attended by more than 50 representatives of institutions and leading trips of the Prahov region.
The declaration was adopted to increase responsibility for creating "zero tolerance" among young people, aimed at ensuring the fight against corruption and to work to avoid such actions, its legal punishment.
the organizers noted the high flexibility of the personnel and examined modern weapons and protective equipment.
Prizes and thanks were awarded to all winners of the competition.
these cards are issued to owners after the introduction of the electronic payment system in public transport.
This academic year, according to the results of the championship, the region rose from 13th place to the top five.
in history, the "Kazakh Khanate" was created.
In addition, the bill was developed in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On cardinal measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and is aimed at creating favorable conditions for the development of the institution of self-regulation of business and professional activities with compliance with the standards and rules established by them.
the obtained data can be used in the field of thermonuclear energy and plasma medicine, in the production of new structural and nanocomposite materials, "he said.
For example, last week a stopping pavilion was installed along the Samara-Shymkent highway in the Aktobe region.
we must comprehensively, comprehensively consider that we immediately export our goods to enterprises on this issue. we need a comprehensive approach .
The Director of the Rahymberdi Sultanbek Cardiology Center familiarized with the activities of the medical institution of the Deputy Head of Government.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, in 2015 a contract was signed for the supply of 91 apartments from the developer of Bk-stroy LLP in Kostanay.
Speaking to participants and spectators, the Mayor of the city noted that the bike ride takes place in the metropolis for the third time every year.
the image of the eagle occupies a special place in the worldview of Eurasian nomads and in their understanding is combined with such concepts as freedom and loyalty, nobility and courage, purity of forces and intentions.
the main prize was won by the culsarian family in the oil sector of the Mangistau region.
Deputy Mayor of East Kazakhstan region congratulated residents at the ceremony.
in addition, for food and transport, the level of import duties applied by Kazakhstan after accession to the WTO will be lower than now.	that is , we zeroed import duties on imported medicines , medical equipment and also equipment used by our industry .	0,50
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Francois Hollande also discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the subsequent visit of the French president to the capital.	also , mr.nazarbayev and mr.hollande discussed the agreements reached after the recent visit of the french president in kazakhstan .	0,50
in the village there is a red glade of the Sandyktau district.	mini-centre opened its doors thanks to  balapan " program .
In the 2nd quarter of 2015, the largest average per capita nominal monetary income of the population was observed in the cities of the capital and Almaty, as well as in the Atyrau region, where this indicator exceeded the average republican level by 2.0-1.8 times.
with the use of modern technologies with new agroadaptations - roses will live a long time after high quality, growth, pain and the discovery of feathers.
they should also be an example themselves, educate young people correctly, not acquire exams and reports, not bring false certificates that students who come for a diploma have been practiced at or worked at an institution.
- Now really there is a discussion.
The board undertook to take a set of measures to eliminate and intensify the shortcomings of operational activities, to increase the effectiveness of prevention and disclosure of embezzlement.
The special purpose unit of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan takes part in this event for the second time.
Kyzylorda region has a difficult situation.
Judging by the beginning of the year, more than 200 out of 700 enterprises in the framework of the industrialization map faced difficulties. the share of the industrialization map projects in the processing industry is increased by 14 % .
I believe that we are ready to perform together with adult athletes.
the French pavilion is adjacent to the united Arab emirates and Brazilian/Argentine countries.
Issues of creation and functioning of local police service units were considered, implementation of departmental program on countering theft of other people's property for 2015-2017 was discussed.
The amount of rental payments during the whole lease period with the right of redemption is at a smooth level.
currently in the Zharma region 7 peasant farms have 1,835 irrigated lands.
according to him, this camera control mechanism, which is carried out daily, will allow timely attention to possible violations in procurement.
of which 3 thousand square meters is a scene.
a monument to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate was erected in the ethno-historical complex.
its implementation is aimed at preventing illegal trafficking in fur products in the eurozone.
since most of the corruption offenses established by the law "On Combating Corruption" are formal and disciplinary in nature and do not provide for material benefits, a new manifestation of corruption offenses is introduced in the bill, "said the deputy of the majilis Svetlana Bovchkova.
It is necessary to create institutions that will stimulate each economically active entity and use its potential, "said E. Hon.
in addition, organizes the display of special equipment and equipment in the fire department of the fire fighting and rescue service within the framework of the LWC.
Team leader, teacher at Abylay Khan College a. Sultanbekova.
As practice shows, pension payments and pensions do not correspond to law enforcement agencies.
Environmental issues will be addressed through integrated measures.
Following the meeting, K. Massimov instructed to organize qualitative control over the execution of all instructions of the head of state.
the country of the great steppe. "
When asking the Ministry of Investment and Development to pay attention to information support, the republican state institution "Public Consent" was recommended to develop a map of the activities of the Mothers Council in order to jointly solve the problem of social issues.
The first place was taken by the physics teacher Nazarbayev of the intellectual school of chemical and biological direction of Petropavlovsk larisa ovchinnikova.
Aktobe and Shymkent are the first two cities in Kazakhstan, where we, together with the government and local authorities, will be able to improve the quality of water supply and related services as part of an expanded partnership. the project will improve the quality of water services , will reduce water loss and wear chains .
According to the akim of the Koksu rural district, satymbayev, collected from straw fields is used to produce biofuels in the village of coke.
Prosecutor General of the Russian Federation Yuri Chaika unanimously elected the forum delegate as chairman of the coordinating council of prosecutors general of the CIS countries.
maybe in the tax code it is worth thinking about reducing the amount of tax on transport using gaz. maybe the tax code should provide reduction of vehicle tax to natural fleet.
Like yesterday, I visit the affected areas every day.
The head of state not in vain instructed to introduce rules and standards for Eidu.
three of them will produce additional fraction for the local transformer plant.
in which patients are trained in the management of diabetes mellitus.
The volume of oil sent to the Russian Federation is established by the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The parties are discussing the conclusion of agreements on the supply of domestic goods.
In the park dedicated to the memory of the victims of severe wars, in addition to eternal fire, a monument monument "nails" and a bust of folk heroes and traitors of the district were erected.
The majilismen will also set deadlines for the development of conclusions on bills relating to the ratification of a loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (a project to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and stimulate productive innovations), as well as a loan agreement (a project to develop labor skills and stimulate jobs) between the development bank.
until the end of the year in the remaining amount.
for example, 8.8 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of the Astana-Pavlodar-Rostovsk road.
internship will be accepted on the basis of the needs of the regions for judicial personnel.
the intellectual school has a library of three halls.
According to him, in the future, taking into account a decrease in oil production and a decrease in oil producers' incomes, a number of tax collection benefits will be introduced into the legislation and multiple taxation for one object will be abolished.
and if invested in production, then pure ferrosilicon can be obtained.
Kazakhstan's sovereign products should have innovative applications.
In order to bring into line with the draft Code, the Code on Taxes and Mandatory Payments to the Budget (Tax Code) establishes a differentiated amount of the returned State duty, as well as a provision that in case of termination of a court order, the State duty paid by the collector is not returned.
In accordance with it, a monument to the Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore was unveiled, but a monument of caution has not yet been erected in Delhi.
Akim noted a more thorough differentiation of appeals from companies.
thus, in 2014 - 2015. During the year (as of July 14 of this year), the Kazagronim squirrels financed and placed 13,602 pcm for fattening, including 4,336 goals purchased in 2015.
The Kazakh diplomat told Russian journalists about the main provisions of strategic programs for the development of our state, such as "100 concrete steps," "nұrly zhol" and cooperation in various Kazakh-Russian spheres.
you will learn a complex but interesting military science, feel what it is like to be a military man and serve your country.
The participants also approved the IAC main activities plan for 2015-2015.
According to akim of Shemonaikhinsky district, the construction of dairy farms was started by direct order of akim of the region Danial Akhmetov.
the stabilization of food prices is carried out mainly through the reproduction of the market.
to date, Kazakhstan has established a serious legislative framework that will fully guarantee the rights of minors.
also internationalist soldiers were in the hero fortress of Brest, where about 400 Kazakhstanis died during the war.
73 thousand tons of zinc were mined in the concentrate, the upper range of the annual plan of 90-95 thousand tons was reached.
currently, all special equipment has been sent from Kapshagai to an educational institution.
and the school gives an 11-year education.
During the visit of the Xsi delegation to Tashkent, the parties agreed to hold frequent meetings in this format.
finally, as a result of the destruction of industrial facilities, foci of chemical damage appeared.
The Secretary of State also noted that today public procurement is one of the most corrupt industries.
Recall that in January 2008, at the forum of social responsibility of business in Zhezkazgan, the Head of State announced the signing of a decree "On the competition for social responsibility of the paryz business."
In addition, the measures taken by Akimat of Akmola region to implement the gender equality strategy for 2006-2016 were considered.
the volume of oil sales for the export of nmg and emg during the reporting period amounted to 2 365 thousand tons (94 thousand barrels per day).
For example, many specialized departments are currently being opened in many universities, "said E. Klimov.
The Supreme Court of Kazakhstan has implemented a number of measures to modernize the justice system.
It is planned that the head of state will make a report at the plenary debate of the General Assembly and take part in the summit on the implementation of the goals of five-year development and the consideration of the goals of sustainable development until 2030, as well as in the summit on combating extremism of a violent nature.
thanks to the coordinated work and accurate performance of each crew member of their combat mission, it was possible to achieve such a successful result by squeezing thirteen strong opponents from each country.
Through the development fund, small and medium-sized enterprises can receive a loan on the basis of the following conditions: the actual amount of remuneration is no more than 6% per annum, the availability period under the credit line is up to one year, the maximum funds per borrower is 1 850 million tenge.
these works are scheduled to be completed by the end of November.
A total of 64 memoranda were signed.
since we depend on them, we are already considering the work of employing our plant in large numbers.
the replenishment of the budget remained doubtful.
200-250 people work in two shifts.
system changes have been made, they have found their practical place.
now great importance is given to the correct storage of the juketer.
now there are not enough jobs.
some agencies do not pay due attention to production issues, the work of technical personnel.	akim noted that the institutions , rendering services to the population , should be thoroughly tested for compliance with the sanitary and epidemiological requirements .	0,50
So, several Kazakh tour operators have already expressed interest in the possibility of adding tickets to the EXPO-2017 exhibition in tourist packages.	today it is an active growth of hostels in astana , when people convert their apartments and turn them into hostels ,  r.asanbayeva has added .
it is planned that it will be signed this fall.
EXPO-2017 as a project that provides such support in these difficult times.
through a mobile application egov.kz such statements were issued about 24 thousand.
I would like to point out that at a time of new hotbeds of instability, you are playing an important role in the region where Jordan is located.
The head of state expressed hope that such meetings will contribute to strengthening the rule of law and the joint fight against crime in the Shu, CIS countries.
and 109,690 pupils in general education public schools.
Within a month, he instructed to prepare a project for the construction of 2 boiler houses.
all this thanks to the wise policy of the first President of Kazakhstan.	the model of interethnic accord is recognized by all leading countries of the world .	0,50
This year alone, doctors conducted more than 300 operations of various levels.	moreover , as informed , the local doctors conducted more than 300 different operations .	0,50
The Urjar region as a zone for the construction of a poultry farm was chosen for a reason, it is located near the large cities of the East Kazakhstan and Almaty regions.	urdzharsky district was chosen because it is the closest district to major cities of east kazakhstan and almaty region .	0,50
representatives of the Caribbean region showed interest in EXPO 2017.	director of the department of trade of the caribbean committee david hales interested in visa support .	0,50
According to the father, the prosperity of the family was measured by the development and progress of the state.	father of the family , oryn kulsariyev is 77 years old .	0,50
four of them pass through Kazakhstan.
this is the main source of protection for producers.
The press conference will be attended by Deputy Prosecutor General Andrei Kravchenko, head of the department for monitoring the legality of the pre-trial criminal process of the Prosecutor General's Office Igor Igembayev, chairman of the administrative police committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Igor lepekha and deputy head of the investigative department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs rakhmazhan dossiers.
A direct video communication with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan was organized in the large hall of the city court.
on the same day, Majilis deputies appoint a term for preparing an opinion to the relevant committee regarding the draft law on volunteer activities.
In addition, in his speech, the head of the region noted that it is easier for a neighboring country to communicate with the heads of regions and districts, and also noted that the Belarusian population intends to be related to regions where the population is comparable to the region.
According to him, the housing complex should have three main documents of the developer, who will be provided with the construction or construction of another object.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 34 applications for legalization of residential facilities in the amount of 1016.3 million tenge.
The island's IP has firmly expanded its entrepreneurship and opened a complex that is unfolding in a new direction.
The competition will be attended by candidates from a number of countries, such as Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Latvia, Lithuania.
According to the military, the weather favored their trip to the mountains, and night rains strengthened the morale of the personnel.
this will allow in the future to establish systematic cooperation with the doco courts.
a specially created working group conducted an examination of the fisheries of the region.
Today, amendments are being made to the administrative code so that the judge is active.
Students who have become winners of national competitions are invited to take part in ieso.
great interest in the gala concert and gala ballet was noted.
As part of the event, the participants got acquainted with the facilities "horgos" hsho and "horgos - east gate" - a transport logistics hub.
our dogs are very kind and smart.	all in all , they save people .	0,50
the meeting heard a progress report on five institutional reforms.	the report on the course of realization of 5 institutional reforms has been heard during the meeting .	0,50
on the site of the former mutton "decent urban infrastructure works.
The medical uniform will be provided with all necessary requirements for the reception of diseases such as a set of state devices and medical devices.
The main goal of the festival is to increase the interest of children with disabilities in art, form a positive attitude to life, involve them in public works, call for active intervention, etc.
gagik Aruutyan noted that at that time he controlled the formation of the legal system and statehood of Kazakhstan.
As part of the celebration, a scientific and practical conference was held, in which the museum of the modernized exposition of the Tatar Center took part, as well as a competition of creative and research works "History and Culture of the Semipalatinsk Tatars: Past and Present."
the teaching staff of the school, who took part in the seminar, received a lot of useful information.
The main thing is that we worked in connection with the country.
they talk about the life and culture of the Kazakh people.
also cadets of military universities are the Ministries of Defense of Russia, Belarus and China.
the mayor of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk took temirbek kassymzhanov from Petrukhin.
According to the head of the fire fighting and rescue service of Akmola region M. Nurtazin, the opening of gas protection posts in the district departments will not only facilitate the work of firefighters, but also increase their effectiveness and increase the number of victims.
In addition, a special exhibition dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate was organized for the participants.
Today, the capacity of the Kazakh packaging market is 700 million US dollars.
according to him, one of the main reforms is the reduction of instances.
here today, listeners are those who adhere to tomorrow's course of the Chinese Communist Party.	it is a priceless heritage that our people will hold sacred for centuries .	0,50
Take comprehensive measures to improve the quality of education of students and the qualifications of teachers, draw up a rating table of districts and cities for all main areas of education.
in addition, beneficiaries are offered preparations for improving linguistics.
we implemented three projects, 2 of which were included in the industrialization map.
According to the Secretary of State, the plant has approved a standard for the efficient use of fuel.
This document simplifies permissive measures for foreign citizens who will work in the country and make a profit.
According to the press service of the Prime Minister, the results of the analysis of the impact of new regulatory instruments in the field of construction were considered during the meeting.
a deep-sea pump in the village of Bosaigyr was replaced.
in different parts of the city there are multicolored lanterns.
It is worth noting that in 2016 Transenergo funds will be raised.
the groom and margins of the Dauletyn met at the enterprise after grade 8.
therefore, houses will be provided in a manner consistent with legislative requirements.
today it is a major sports organization for children with disabilities.
over the years of independence, the constitution has proved its effectiveness and democracy, determination.
however, happiness was the first to command you.
the children's camp is located on the opposite bank of the ulba river.
family - a subgroup of social structure, the first house, a very important, responsible soul of a person.
we count on the auto industry, you bought toyota, now new global players are coming, new world brands, new technologies.
as a stimulating gift gives a working complex consisting of a lego element.
Currently, more than 100 workers and 20 pieces of equipment work.
now, due to the devaluation of the ruble, many enterprises are afloat.
According to p.asanbaev. together with entrepreneurs, work is underway to produce trains that will house hotel cars.
The plant, built according to modern technologies, took one of the leading places in the domestic industry.
throughout the race, we remained calm and reacted as much as possible.
It should be noted that the Parliament of Kazakhstan received about 60 bills.
the decisive match ended with a score of 2-0 in favor of the Kazakhstan boxer.
In his speech, Mr. Darvaza drew attention to the great potential of the development of pharmacetics in the republic.
according to him, the organizational and legal form provides for the construction of agricultural cooperatives and any type of property can participate in them.
To date, the construction of a warehouse for finished products is underway, during these two weeks its construction will begin.
expedition participants met the youth of the region with fiery slogans.
What success will the inhabitants of the capital bring to the transformation of the city into a global urban center?
the signing of the Milan Convention on Food Policy of the city became the main theme of the mayors' summit.
The main labor guarantees and the rights of workers are also affirmed, the possibility of their increase by the conclusion of collective, individual agreements and agreements and instruments of protection of the rights and the interests of workers is provided", - Duysenova told.
currently there is nothing left of the rubble of stones and mud.
until we improve recovery measures, the number of children in our institutional institutions will not decrease. we won 't have a result if we deal only with prevention .
the seminar was organized jointly with the World Bank and the Research Institute for the Training of Korean Personnel.
At the end of the competition, the winners were awarded diplomas and cash prizes.
this competition is aimed at checking the personal combat training of fighters and team work.
the number of children receiving home education in 2012 was 7,923.
Data were received from the Ministry of Energy on the environmental situation of the country: the level of pollution of human settlements, the radiation state of the surface layer of the atmosphere, as well as on the change in the integrated index of pollution of water bodies of the country.
and the competence of such bodies and laboratories is confirmed by a single authorized body.
At the same time, today it is necessary to meet the needs of entrepreneurs from small and medium-sized businesses to systemically important enterprises.
The World Bank International Finance Corporation was established to manage investment in the market of developing countries.
near the monument on the shore of Lake Zhailau is a Kazakh village.
According to him, practical conclusions should be talked about next year.
border consolidation, illegal migration, arms trafficking and human trafficking.
As the Vice Minister explained, the main goal of the bill is to radically change and reduce the time for the provision of public services, the creation of a centralized system.
a settlement agreement is concluded with the consent of all creditors.
First of all, I want to congratulate the Kazakh people.
we have also referred to the Magata experts documents dealing with certain areas of issues aimed at the safe consumption of nuclear energy.
we must maintain strong presidential power, a vivid example of which is Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, recognized in world politics. we must maintain a strong presidential power .
The reason for the price increase was a decrease in the volume of sold products (end of June) and an increase in the wholesale price by 16% from 517 to 600 tenge/kg.
It is worth noting that the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium does not limit the development of individual world nuclear technologies of each country.
also visited a number of other social facilities in the city.
the press conference will be attended by representatives of state bodies and the expert community.
in addition, it provides for improving the parameters of the funded pension system, expanding the coverage of the population with the funded pension system.
starting next year, this fund will attract high-tech startups (including foreign ones) and create technology centers together with transnational corporations.
we are nothing more than the actions of these criminal groups.	according to him , muslims are faced with radical islamists justify the monstrous crimes .	0,51
I was a very thin girl.	it was thin and small then .	0,51
as a result of the audit, conditional illegal armed groups will be isolated and eliminated, which will be reflected by the strike forces of interdepartmental groups.	the troops will conduct combat training tasks , including the water barrier forcing with the support of air forces .	0,51
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that issues of tolerance and non-discrimination within the humanitarian dimension are of particular importance for Kazakhstan, the report said.
This will allow farms not only to save, but also to make a good profit if they are introduced into production, said the head of the center for the dissemination of rice knowledge of the Research Institute named after I. Zhakhaev.
competitions were held on the basis of the ukb-25 Burabai district.
Kazakhstan plans to join the investment committee in the coming years.	as the minister noted , it is planned to attract more investments in the agriculture .	0,51
Diplomas and valuable gifts of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan were presented to young creative participants who received high appreciation of the work.	in addition , the meeting included the presentation of scientific works made by participants of the republican contest for the best scientific work in the field og the activity of the people 's assembly .	0,51
therefore, more attention should be paid to the implementation of such programs as "" gold armband, "" kulan, "" will. ""
the search engine has an area, or a region, only a city, a specific area, or a region.
At the airport, the design cost of which is 13.2 million tenge, in addition to the helipad, 2 boings will be equipped.
the volume of finished products decreased slightly.
after which a meeting was held on the implementation of the revenue and expenditure part of the district budget.
The Romanian side showed the greatest interest in establishing close relations with industrial regions.
the silk road project is the second stage of our policy of openness.
It is necessary to organize the algorithm well and set specific tasks.
In 1920, on this day, the Kazakh "Appendix on State Statistics in the Casso" was adopted, which marked the beginning of the emergence of a centralized statistical system in Kazakhstan.
and from March to mid-May - a popular vote.
in addition, according to Nazarbayeva, special attention should be paid to the extraction and circulation of methane and shale stone gases from coal rocks.
metallurgical plant "ulba," having the necessary experience and capabilities.
teachers give children the most important and most expensive wealth - education. the teachers ' contest called ' best teacher ' promotes the image of the profession for the fourth year in a row .
the presented reports will be interesting for specialists and researchers in the field of international and national security, employees of analytical structures and institutions, as well as for employees of "political science" and institutions, as well as students and doctoral students studying in the field of "political science" and "international relations."
as part of the delegation, deputies of the Senate and others.
At the same time, attention will be paid to supporting domestic entrepreneurship.
Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan R. Mamyrbayev noted that selection for the post of judge of the Supreme Court from among the judges of the regional courts is being carried out.
During the meeting, the head of the region noted that 92 colleges in the field of technical and vocational education study more than 97 thousand students in 75 specialties.
20 channels of reception and viewing of satellite channels, 10 channels in automatic and manual control modes can be recorded simultaneously with various satellites.
Based on the results of the work of the commission, an electronic map was compiled, which will be presented today.
The solemn event was attended by akim sko erik of the sultans.
specialists held about 4.5 thousand consultations.
In turn, M. Pishembayev noted the high potential of Korea in mechanical engineering.
developers seek to launch the project at Expo 2017, calling it world experience.
Recall that today more than 50 services and services are available to citizens of Kazakhstan in mobile format, by the end of this year it is planned to launch another 20 mobile services.
If you need to hold prizes outside of Russia, then Kazakhstan deserves it.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that agreements on joint projects in the agricultural sector are of great importance for our country.
this format reveals the facts of violence in the law enforcement sphere.
there is an opinion that this can be called eao and China.
this will allow replacing drugs taking into account their quality and reliability.
a new method of performance assessment has been introduced and performance targets will be known.	the senate adopted the draft law  on state service of the republic of kazakhstan . "
The seminar participants were convinced that in the future it would be possible to technologically equip and create a domestic test center with small forces if funds were allocated.
It is planned that the South Korean pavilion will occupy an area of ​ ​ 1,137 square meters and will be located in the center of the exhibition complex.
During the conference, the participation of women in the modernization of the modern political system was discussed.
As Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan Zhakupov Asanov reported, earlier two of the three treaties in the field of criminal prosecution were ratified with Hungary.
each state presents the results of its achievements related to modern art.	and the participation of kazakhstani artists is an opportunity to show kazakhstan 's contemporary art .	0,51
until now, you can observe a great moral height from classmates, colleagues in labor, not forgetting about their connections in Ukraine, "said Omashevich.
the UN Secretary General noted that the congress in the capital is a very necessary event due to the fact that the world is in a transition period.
the main form of our work is children and their protection.
in a global crisis, each country wants to keep its own market.
at plenary meetings and sections of figures of science and education, art, "dialogue of cultures will be discussed as a factor in the development of humanitarian cooperation of the CIS," the Eurasian code of humanitarian cooperation, "" the role of museums in dialogue of cultures. "
During the meeting, the parties expressed confidence in the continuation of mutually beneficial cooperation.
According to experts, entrepreneurs need to abandon the dubious services of persons who promise to make a certificate at a fast and cheap price, since the procedure for confirming compliance will have to be repeated in the established manner, and an administrative fine will be paid.
deputy akim of Zhaksynsky district l. As Seidakhmetova noted, the residents of the district clearly understand the consequences of the fire, and highly appreciate this care.
According to the tender documentation, the Vice Minister has problems adapting the technical requirements on the part of the customer to a specific person.
Such awards were awarded to Soviet cosmonauts Georgy Grechko and Aleksey Eliseev.
the gala concert will be the fifth event of the theater in the second season.
because the answer sheet is scanned and recognized by the automated system.
The Head of State signed the following documents:
The team of the Republican Center of Air Ambulance of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan took the third place in international competitions for emergency medical care in Dubingei and the village of Girejči (Republic of Lithuania).
At the same time, the experience of Hong Kong courts applying peacekeeping procedures is of interest to Kazakhstan. "
the company has a drying device and a granary.
thus, many countries massively depreciated their currencies.
festival, September 25 and 26. in the hamidi opera "abai."
mixed hand-to-hand combat took place according to the Kazakh version.
The book draws the reader's attention to how easily he suffers from human mistakes and sacrifices, and how difficult it will be to later return to the path to peace and development. working with the head of state , i have witnessed his tremendous efforts on this issue , he did not stop to discuss and find ways out of the ukrainian crisis .
Tank crews from Kyrgyzstan and Kuwait will compete with Kazakh tankers.
A. Zhumagaliyev expressed confidence that the implementation of the strategy will allow the "kazatomprom" to increase the cost of UAC and maintain its leading position in the world uranium production market.
The maneuver was held at 08:40 Moscow time, at 11: 30-11: 40 Moscow time, work was organized to safely disconnect the facilities.
if the family has a whole liver, then the state of the country will also be normal.
this program includes the organization of meetings with representatives of individuals and organizations implementing measures in the field of preservation, restoration and presentation of cultural and art monuments.
It is planned that the largest pavilion at the exhibition will be Japanese.
the main characters have realized their images, believe in them.
Today, a special consulting company engaged in forestry and the woodworking industry is preparing the necessary documents.
We think that all parents are glad that children cannot study well in such schools, "said the chairman of the capital's education department.
One of them is complaints about the quality of the Internet in the city recently.
Despite the difficult current situation, the implementation of reforms is necessary in order to lay the foundation for the future good.
here is the sea, and the cottage, and high mountains.
According to him, the family of culsary winners really deserves this award.
aa. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan is concerned about a trend that often manifests itself in the distortion of traditional religions, the spread of violence, terrorism and transnational threats in the territory of the Eku.
the document on behalf of Saryarka Auto Industry LLP was signed by the director of the company, cheese Semebayev, and the general director of the company, Alexey Nikolenko, on behalf of Nias LLC.
To date, work is underway to sign loan agreements.
Among the residents of the capital, there are still no applicants for the legalization of passport.
In 2016, the Eurasian National University named after L. N. Gumileva celebrates the 20th anniversary of its founding.
a number of large Japanese companies are actively working in Kazakhstan.
some European nations have lost their relevance, for example, the British in England or the Germans in Germany.
The Irtysh basin in eastern Kazakhstan accounts for 21% of fishing.
investors have the right to attract foreign labor without special permission and agreement.
projects will also be implemented to modernize the heat supply system in the city of Semey.
according to him, if the Kars-Akhalkalaki, which are the main part of the Trans-Caspian route, are put into operation, then freight along this route will receive a great impetus. "
these jump exercises are held for the third time.
it is also planned to build a cycle track.
two kindergartens for 300 children, "baldauren" for 420 children.
But our ties are not limited, we are ready to be one of the first to redeem municipal bonds of Almaty akimat, "said suma chakrabarti.
modern automated equipment ensures the quality of laboratory studies and high-quality blood of medical organizations of the region.
a. Issekeshev, you must create all favorable conditions for the creation of the valley, we hope that it will come voluntarily, "the Prime Minister said.
Monuments from UNESCO pre-registration are carefully guarded.
I suggest you work on a new system.	particular attention was paid to the 5th section  creating accountable state , " based on monitoring , evaluation and control .
the ballet troupe showed its skill on the stage of the karlo feliche theater (Italy).
16,313 non-residential facilities in the amount of 98.7 billion tenge, including 4,114 commercial facilities in the amount of 68.5 billion tenge, 14 interests in legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge, securities in the amount of 4.0 billion tenge.
in the first year of commissioning, 78 thousand cars pass, and by 2034 - 104 thousand cars per day.
As part of this document, uranium enterprises intend to conclude agreements with domestic producers of the region totaling 4.6 billion tenge, "the Governor's Office reported.
when putting a glass factory into operation 600 tons of fiberglass per day (197,100 tons per year).
i.aliyev also congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Works to provide a reserve well with fresh water have been completed.
the agenda considered the implementation of the regional anti-corruption plan and the open implementation of public services in the areas of health and education.
for example, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the length and breadth of Kazakhstan's borders allow for important strategic and transport and logistics activities in the Eurasian space.
Masaesi thanked for the warm welcome and once again noted that the Kazakh people are a hospitable people.
In order to bring into line with the draft Code, the Code on Taxes and Mandatory Payments to the Budget (Tax Code) establishes a differentiated amount of the returned State duty, as well as a provision that in case of termination of a court order, the State duty paid by the collector is not returned.
At the same time, the main mechanisms for the implementation of the scholarship were studied, a joint five-year program of the Republic of Kazakhstan was developed, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
"the second turn of the second stage of construction of the Kazakhstan-Chinese oil pipeline.
these measures will allow you to track the requirements specified in the agreement online.
costumes of promoters and animators are combined with the style of the 80s of the last century.
He currently works in the presidential administration, knows how to comprehensively study the situation and economic issues in the country, "the head of state said.
in each of them natural-climatic conditions and volumes of raw materials are calculated.
the foundations of law in higher education. "
The club's meeting this year is held in the capital for the first time, earlier training camps were held in Alma-Ata three times.	it is very important , because kazakhstan is to host expo-2017 .	0,51
It is noted that in case of detection of excessive content of nitrates, specialists of the consumer protection department carried out explanatory work.	during the detection of excess nitrate content the specialist for consumer protection carried out explanatory work .	0,51
The draft law is designed to eliminate the comments indicated in the report of the Eurasian Group on Combating the Legalization of Proceeds from Crime and the Financing of Terrorism, as well as to bring national legislation in line with international standards of the Financial Action Task Force against Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism (fatf).	the document was developed to address the observations mentioned in the report of the eurasian group on combating money laundering and terrorist financing , to bring national legislation into line with international standards of the financial action .	0,51
this is the transition to a three-tier judicial system, the creation of an international arbitration center in the capital aifc, the strengthening of requirements for candidates for judges, the creation of a specialized panel on investment cases and an advisory international council in the supreme court.	recall , the meeting of the chairpersons of the supreme courts of the sco member states is one of the main areas to strengthen cooperation in combating new challenges and threats , the exchange of information in the sphere of judicial reforms and improving of the legal framework of the countries of the organization .	0,51
At the end of the holiday, participants were awarded special diplomas and valuable gifts.	the contest participants were awarded diplomas and valuable gifts .	0,51
express test is one of the main examples of testing combat training of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	rapid military test - one of the main forms of combat training in the land forces .	0,51
According to the calculation of the 1st at the 15.06.2015 of the year, the fee for the legalization of property according to the code "206110" actually received 2.8 billion tenge in the budget.
According to the calculation of 1-r at the 19.06.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
agriculture around the world is moving into the high-tech industry.
As noted in the command, officers who successfully passed the certification were enrolled in the reserve for promotion to senior military posts, as well as referrals for training to senior military posts in 2015-2017.
all the acquired knowledge is fixed in the group and practical exercises on crossing the mountain river with "injuries" on the carrier.
Excavation works in the main quarry of the Bozshakol deposit, mining of clay ores and empty rocks continue in Pavlodar region.
from 5 to 10 facilities will be built annually in this resort area.
since subsidies are directly proportional to the cost of gross agricultural products, for Kazakhstan 8.5% is a real opportunity to provide state support to agriculture in the amount necessary for the development of the industry.
and what measures are being taken to remove administrative barriers?
I invite all of you to participate in EXPO-2017.
enterprise support based on the corporate structure gives us hope that our students and undergraduates will master modern technologies. support of these enterprises within the corporate governance structure of our university , within the training of the stuff gives an opportunity to hope that our students , our undergraduates will learn modern technologies .
the purpose of the project is to preserve coastal forests and recultivate major damage from forest fires and deforestation, the dried bottom of the island sea, phyto forest irrigation, restoration of livestock pastures with the planting of saxaul in the Kyzylorda region, etc.
that is, a surcharge should not be charged or, being in line, our courts should be created equal conditions with them, "he said.
polyethylene pipes are repaired.
The event will be attended by graduates of higher and vocational education institutions, unemployed youth.
now a new cultural center will cause effective leisure activities for young people.
often the question arises whether the money that is being built on such projects will return.
this decision was mainly made for gas turbines with a capacity of 50,000 kW, which will be valid from September 2, 2015 to August 31, 2019.
the fund also decides on the issuance and non-submission of documents and guarantees.
the Kazakh people, according to them, provided assistance and assistance in the most difficult times.
In the future, it is planned to build a ferroalloy plant.
the city is actively developing and comprehensively developing.
One of the most difficult tests for the participants will be a night raid and running in rough terrain with a violation of the mountain area.
women who became enemies in the history of the Kazakh Khanate were female children among the wise advisers of judges and khans.
If such cases are identified, materials concerning persons providing illegal services will be sent to the relevant authorities in accordance with existing practice for prosecution in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
our first parliamentarians popularized Soviet life, which led to lawlessness in house conditions, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the values of the Charter of the United Nations that do not obey time must remain our guiding principles.
at the expense of investors and individuals, it is planned to build another 9 kindergartens.
among them - transport and expeditionary activities, water transport services, food production, large-scale trade.
During the visit, delegates met with heads of national law enforcement agencies of the Kingdom of Thailand to combat drug trafficking and exchanged experiences.
do not intend to open any new export directions.
In the bloodiest war of the 20th century, 25% of the population is involved in Kazakhstan.
lower level of non-performing loans in second-tier banks; Improving the transparency of organizations engaged in the management of stress assets specializing in improving the quality of loan portfolios of second-tier banks; Improving access to bank lending tools, both by large groups and by increasing investor confidence; improving the sustainability of the country's financial system, including second-tier banks.
Currently, this working group is visiting the capital, Almaty cities and regional centers. with a servant.
improving the quality of medical care, nutrition, health improvement in summer health centers.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the need to strengthen inter-parliamentary cooperation.
By telephone numbers 963-777 or 1300, residents of the capital can get advice from healthcare specialists.
an urgent issue in anticipation of the transition to the digital community is the principle of open government, which will be discussed in the framework of this conference.
this alternative to those who have learned to wait for countless queues with eskis.
however, due to corruption problems, the programs remained halfway before implementation.
the wear of the Almaty thermal system is 64%.
today there are 184 thousand business entities in the city, including 1825 industrial enterprises.
these two concepts of twins.
In general, important issues of Kazakh-Malaysian cooperation were discussed in the framework of this meeting, the parties agreed to provide mutual support.
teams do not join each other, but perform tasks in conditions as close as possible to combat.
According to the results of the measures taken, we see that the number of criminal offenses against minors has halved. as a result of the measures we note the reduction of crime against minors by almost 2 times .
it stated that Kazakhstan should strive to reduce energy efficiency.
Also, 7 projects exported products totaling 500 billion tenge.
lights, such as sunlight, scattered around the shanyrak.
It should be noted that Kazagro holding is not limited only to financing production.
in addition, Kazakhstan is one of the three world leaders in the export of titanium, its share is 9% of total exports, in addition, it ranks 2nd in the export of flour.
thus, in the future, the mother will not give up her child, "R. sarsembayeva explained.
We sent these two drafts with amendments and annexes to the meeting for consideration, "said member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Lyudmila half-fatko at the plenary session.
the transition to universal declaration has recently been actively discussed in society.	the three-year lag is suggested to analyze and improve the procedures , to monitor systems .	0,51
representatives of the company are not worried about the site for selling products of their own production, since Osakarka is far from the profitable markets of Karaganda and the capital.	the project was presented and received approval in japan , where the studies were conducted , the japanese expressed readiness to buy the new product .	0,51
the volume of import traffic increased due to an increase in supplies from Russia of cement, construction materials and coke.	as for import traffic , at the expense of transportation of cement , building materials , coke to russia , in comparison with the last year , there is an increase of import traffic volume .	0,51
According to Mikhail Yalbachev, thanks to the joint efforts of customs, border, port services, the waiting time of the ship registration commission was brought to zero, which used to take 25 hours per month.	according to michael yalbachev , due to the joint organization of the customs , border and port services the waiting time for vessels registration decreased .	0,51
the authors noted the importance of the assistance provided to them at the most difficult moments.	the residents noted the importance of the assistance provided at the most difficult moment .	0,51
at school, interesting moments and miracles await you.	at school , you are waited for interesting discoveries and fascinating events .	0,51
It should be noted that over the past three years more than 2,000 military personnel have undergone spa treatment here.	over the past three years the spa treatment have been got over 2 000 troops .	0,51
young ulan, "where students of the 7th and 11th grades study.
On October 12, 2012, I was granted the status of cosmonaut of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
most of the processing industries are in metallurgy and mechanical engineering.
According to the director of the Republican Information Center for the Study of Historical Materials of the Abuseite Meruert, earlier in the history of Kazakhstan there were many "white breakfasts of history," requiring special attention and special studies.
this idea was offered to us by a student.	watertight pipe for irrigation was made of old tires .	0,52
this will give a new impetus to the development of Kazakhstan's export potential.	the aim is to demonstrate the goods and the trade between the countries along the silk road .	0,52
all of them were given diplomas and envelopes with money.	all of them were awarded diplomas and cash envelopes .	0,52
Currently, the republican power system has been significantly updated and the capacity of power plants is about 17 thousand mW.
However, in the near future, the poultry farm plans to increase production three times.
I do not think that in all countries such conditions are created for investors.
we thought long ago and wanted to spend, but there was too little time to let us spend.
The implementation of each phase of the plan will ensure the resolution of topical issues in the regions, strengthening the links between public authorities and the civil sector, and increasing confidence in them.	one of them - a large-scale internet-project  encyclopedia of kazakhstan , " which will help every citizen and tourist to learn more about the country .
the project provides for a runway thickness of 10 cm, expansion by 300 m, extension of the stretch by 18 m and repair of the apron.
Sabitov noted that the purpose of the event is to inform young people about kha and ensure the participation of young people in strategic state programs.
In turn, a. Ayymbetov promised high-quality scientific work of the Kyrgyz visit.
In the old sewage collector, where he worked for 20 years, a number of accidents occurred.
Following the results of the round table, an agreement was signed on the conclusion of a memorandum of mutual partnership between the bureau and the union.
Subsidies are allocated for each hectare of sugar beet area.
a separate pavilion was installed at the exhibition to serve investors.
last year, the average yield was 16.3 centners per hectare.
Mr. Zhakupov presented the guest with a commemorative sign "Kazakhstan Way: unit. patriotism. reforms. "
This year, with the support of the head of state, a pilot project will be implemented to fulfill a three-year state defense order.
Guests of the event visited a special thematic exhibition specially organized for this day in the library, during which the library staff told the audience about the most sights of the capital, its features, history and significant events related to it.
According to Sergey Sidorsky, a member of the board of industry and agro-industrial complex of the EEC, the opportunities reflected in the current EAEU agreement will help solve the problem of developing competitive industries in the Eurasian space.
he noted that r.tusupbekov "expressed his desire."
pianist performs with Sofia in prestigious concert halls in Great Britain and Europe.
It is necessary to choose at the discretion of the head of state and determine what reports he reports to the head of state.
in addition, it is planned to introduce a balanced tax model by providing benefits and advantages in connection with the preparation of the mine and its complexity.
in world history, "warrior girl" was considered a special concept.
weak, when each finger is separate, it has force only if there is a fist.
The Secretary of State also took part in the grand opening of the sports palace with an ice rink and athletics arena.
in addition, donor organs were transported 14 times during this period.
then the pilots worked to determine the algorithm of post-accident actions, their location, the use of light signalling devices, disguise the terrain and make progress in pursuing the enemy.
As the head of state noted, thanks to the launch of this rink, the holding of major competitions here at the international level, it is also possible to justify its costs.
I am sure that as a result, the courts will be optimized and the quality of justice will improve. "
The introduction of new mechanisms and procedures for disclosure of information for state bodies is aimed at implementing anti-corruption reforms and a total of 100 concrete steps, "said Majilis deputy Nurlan Abdirov.
Within 15 years, new production will be built on undeveloped lands.
The Vice Minister also noted that today Kazakhstan has signed 5 subsidiary agreements with international banking organizations.
15 psychopaths were involved in the decoration of the book.
The monument 30 meters long is the history of the formation of national statehood of the Kazakh people.
The akim of Stepnogorsk anuar Kumpekeyev took part in the opening ceremony of the championship.
It is included in the list of 10 universities of training in higher education.
in addition, the parties will discuss current issues of personnel and organizational activities.
Recall that on March 30 of this year, the heads of medical and pharmaceutical associations of the Republic of Kazakhstan signed a memorandum on containing prices for 200 items of medicines and medical products.
students can also turn to university doctors for help anyway.
the country is on the verge of another important historical event.
Issues of local executive bodies for the summer fire hazardous and bathing season in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan were discussed.
special forces must be prepared for the most difficult tasks.
Following the meeting of the commission, a joint protocol was signed defining priority areas.
Around the monument is a park, which is a favorite resting place for residents.
we prepared in the squad of astronauts.	for example , a student has asked him :  why did you choose this profession ?
so, in the youth house, each pupil is assigned a teacher who helps him choose a profession.
In order to simplify registration procedures, authorization is issued through the CES.
today, the mining and metallurgical industry is the most important industry in the country.	speaking at congress asset issekeshev read a welcoming speech of the head of state .	0,52
we modernize the historical and cultural heritage and spiritual values ​ ​ of the great steppe.	maternal and child mortality rate has also decreased ,  the president added .
For large-scale implementation of the measures, a republican operational headquarters was created.
The plan of cultural and Duma measures has not yet been agreed.
to the right and left of the shanyrak are winged birds in legends.
we believe that this is much cheaper and more profitable than producing energy using diesel fuel. we estimate that it is much cheaper and more effective than produce energy using diesel fuel .
In accordance with the agreement between the governments of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the transportation of Russian oil through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the Chinese population in order to ensure reliable transportation along the Kazakhstan section of the pipeline of Russian oil pumped along the route Omsk-Priirtyshsk-Atasu-Alashanskai.
Work is underway to restart enterprises left without work in the villages. much work is being done to launch idle plants in villages .
at the same time, revenues of the republican budget (excluding transfers) in 2015 are estimated at 3 trillion 174.2 billion tenge, which is less than the approved plan by 45.8 billion tenge.
today at 12:00 a plane will run from the capital to Tbilisi.
the general relay race raises the spirit of the group, contributes to the cohesion of the team.
a new global agreement to control climate change will be adopted there.
before being sent to Russia, the pilots were twice heroes of the Soviet Union in the act. met with cadets of the military institute of the Bigeldinov Air Defense Forces.
The expert also discussed the legal signs of accession to the WTO.
As the leader of the nation noted, this prize can be awarded at a plenary meeting of the congress with the appointment of the Council of Religious Leaders.
The document will be continued taking into account the proposals and comments of the parties and will be posted at the next meeting until the end of 2015.
and in this area, our incomes will grow many times, which will be higher than the incomes of any sick country.
According to Vladimir Maltsev, Director of the European Industrial Policy Department, one of the main problems of the steel market is related to the high volume of imports of innovative products from 4 countries.
We are considering the possibility of transferring funds not to a bank account, but to legalized citizens without paying 10 penalties.
yu.amano noted that the signing of the treaty was really a historic event.
these are all possibilities that will be available after the country becomes a member of this organization.
We know that Chinese companies are very responsible for the issue of research support for the process of increasing oil production.
the agenda also includes issues of international activities, strengthening cooperation with other integration structures and countries.
According to him, on November 14, the Eurasian National University named after L. Gumilev will host the international youth forum "green bridge - a platform for innovative opportunities."
the participation of major global players in our market is investor confidence.
Head of State, Party Chairman Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev did not rule out that the Nur Otan party always highly appreciates its place in the life of the country and bears great responsibility, "the Mayor said.
The right to receive this package is granted to citizens of the country to which the contribution was paid, and to foreigners and stateless persons permanently residing in the country.
At the 5th session of the 5th convocation there will be a large package of bills.	according to him , the legal system of the country expects big changes .	0,52
we have been trained to meet global market conditions.	symbolically , the doors of the organization are opened in front of our country at a time when we begin to implement five people 's reforms .	0,52
Great attention is paid to the development of health care in the country.	the new clinic will employ qualified medical staff .	0,52
young fans sparred with their comments, after which they were photographed and received autographs.	young fans held sparring with them , took a picture and got autographs .	0,52
In his congratulations M. Rahoy expressed confidence that Kazakhstan and Spain will continue to strengthen friendly relations, which have been linking both countries for a long time.	in his congratulatory message m.rahoy expressed confidence that kazakhstan and spain will continue to strengthen the friendly relations .	0,52
as a result, road traffic will double.	this will increase traffic by 2.5 times , and transit vehicles by 2 times .	0,52
therefore, our side is interested in increasing trade with Kazakhstan.	therefore , we are interested in the growth of trade .	0,52
a draft anti-corruption law was submitted for discussion by the deputies in the second reading.	the second reading will consider the draft laws with accompanying amendments  on anti-corruption . "
So, the first season began in the wild "walking" bso, located along the ayyrtavchik river in a pine forest.
From 2008 to 2015 - Mayor of Almaty.
This is the 500th anniversary launch from Gagarin Square.
production of combine harvesters decreased by 12.2%.
The opening of this enterprise is a sign of the transition of street Chinese lamps to better domestic products.
As for the regional budget, as R.Kemalov noted, the regional budget is higher by 491.5 million tenge and 1.2% higher compared to last year.
The Malaysian side highly appreciated the activity of the development of political dialogue between the two countries and noted the socio-economic and foreign policy successes achieved by Kazakhstan during the years of independence.
The guests also got acquainted with the work of the Ordabasy Poultry factory, and also visited the Amangelda garden in the Kazykurt district.
also on the www.memst.kz website for users of public services is a list of public services, passports of permits.
Acting Chairman of the Committee for the Development of Languages and Socio-Political Work took part in the meeting from the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan.
The signing of the document by the international organization together with the state body takes place for the first time in the Ansha space, "said E. Togzhanov.
they save on foreign investors.
Currently, work is underway in the regional center to improve the courtyard areas of the districts.
Alexander Suvorov of his own free will was relieved of the post of deputy chairman of the board.
we have well-developed export directions in the food industry, in particular in confectionery and flour flour products, "said E. Nikitinskaya.
firstly, from the new year Kazakhstan will move from a 5-link judicial system to a 3-link judicial system.
G. Abdykalikova visited the regional blood center, commissioned this year.
I find it heroic that you show courage without admitting to the difficulties you face in life.
Also, the project aimed at updating the heat supply system of the city of Semey received the support of the board of directors.
in the region, it is planned to open the area of ​ ​ production of polymetallic ores and develop ore ores in the lower part of the mine of the toothed mine of the mining and mining complex of reeds.
According to the preliminary results of the visit, within the framework of the negotiations, an agreement was signed on the supply of Kazakhstan metal pipes, optical cables, engineering of oil equipment in the amount of about $4.9 million.
this institution has reached the constitutional level, it is used in our country, which unites 100 ethnic groups and 20 religious denominations, within the framework of kha they can all preserve their culture, literature, traditions, language.
The growth of agricultural production in the region amounted to 0.1%, which is associated with an increase in livestock production.
So, 22 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the 12 of an enterprise in 2013-2014 single-industry towns in 1,055,2.
Among the citizens of the country, interest in our history has increased significantly.
In total, more than 300 military personnel from six countries took part in the competition.
a. Tors announced his participation in the anniversary session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, noting the uniqueness of the institution of the assembly and its special role in maintaining inter-ethnic stability.
children watered grass grown in the flower garden with a barrel with water under pressure, and felt like real firefighters.
Since 2016, this figure has increased to 5 points.
this is one of the features of the plant where energy-saving glass is produced.
the first term was chaired by Russia.	3 500 commodity items ' import duties are lower than the wto established .	0,52
such documents shall be valid immediately before the expiry of their validity period, but not later than July 1, 2016.	it should be noted that in respect of individually imported new vehicles , it is technically impossible to carry out conformity assessment in the form of type approval .	0,52
During the meeting, debates were held on topical topics related to the identification of conflicts and threats in the Central Asian region, opportunities and prospects for international cooperation in countering violent extremism.	in the end , noting the importance of the cooperation , the participants adopted a joint final protocol for law enforcement and other competent authorities to identify and combat all forms of extremism and terrorism .	0,52
at the first stage, it is planned to introduce training modules in Astana and Kyzylorda region, this year more than 100 master trainers from these regions were trained.	according to statistics , 18 192 cases of suicide were registered in 2014 among children under the age from 9 to 18 years old , compared with 2013 decrease is of 1.5 times ,  s. zhakupova has said .
thus, he wished his athletes to become winners in the future.
There, methodologist specialists from the "nursery" and teachers of this discipline at school share their experience.
representatives of state bodies and the public in their speeches revealed the priorities of the national plan, expressed various opinions and proposals on the main approaches to its implementation.
Today, the capital hosts a scientific and practical conference "Constitution: unity, stability, prosperity," dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Under the personal control of the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov, the combat readiness of the military administration and troops of the country's armed forces has been realized.
we want to show the richness of culture by setting the history of the Kazakh khanate.
The exhibition dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will last until December.
In particular, next year legislation on benefits will be adopted and will enter into force.
The methods used within the framework of the event contribute to a decrease in the survival rates of young children and the chest.
according to the results of the competition, Kazakhstani servicemen took third place.
That is, we build tenge at the old price before sending to free circulation.
The purpose of the document is modification and additions in the current legislation for formation of the uniform public policy directed to realization of the idea of national patriotism "To m g_l_k ate".
even from the capital comes orders for sewing covering transport seats.
because he wants returns to be open at the central and local levels.
after a trial period, the judge must be approved at a plenary session of the regional court.	a one-year probationary period for newly elected judges is introduced at the moment .	0,52
Vice Minister of Energy Magzum Myrzagaliyev will take part in the press conference.	the press conference will be attended by deputy minister of energy of the republic of kazakhstan magzum mirzagaliev .	0,52
by order of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, archaeological work on the territory of the monument is led by the director of Kazarchaeology LLP Smailov.
each athlete tried to show the result of many months of training.
it, in turn, contributes to the life of the country.
clarified the legal regime of the object of public-private partnership, which is subject to transfer to state ownership when compensating the investment costs of a private partner.
we go from automation to a normal architectural approach.
today, the humanitarian catastrophe in Syria is one of the largest crises in the world. as known , the representatives of the syrian opposition groups asked the kazakhstani government to provide a platform for the second round of inter-syrian dialogue .
for us, the Iranian market has a great future.
certification determines the compliance of military personnel with their positions, the future and career growth of their further military service, the need to improve training (retraining), training.
these facilities expand energy consumption and provide consumers of the capital with an uninterrupted and reliable energy system.
it is also planned to increase the volume of cargo transportation between Europe and China from 117 million tons to 170 million tons by 2020.
Following the meeting, a protocol on mutual cooperation was signed by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Russia.
He familiarized the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the basic requirements for candidates for judges.
because such legislation exists in Russia and Belarus, that is, these countries process gold only in their countries, "the minister said.
Ratification of the second protocol amending the Agreement on Preferential Conditions for the Supply of Special Equipment and Means for Equipping Law Enforcement Agencies and Special Services of the Member States of the Collective Security Treaty Organization of 6 October 2007.
The head of the national company expressed great interest in the participation of Costa Rica in the upcoming EXPO-2017.
in this regard, the events to celebrate the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate are evidence of the existence of deep roots of the formation of national statehood and historical statehood on the fraternal Kazakh land as a whole.	it was emphasized that the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is a sign for the present generation to preserve the knowledge , traditions and customs of its people for descendants .	0,52
in Uralsk, the Deputy Prime Minister held a meeting with the participation of heads of local executive bodies, representatives of the public and the business community.	vice primer held meeting with heads of local executive bodies and public representatives in uralsk .	0,52
the session will be attended by the CIS Executive Committee, institutes and institutes of education-research of the Commonwealth countries, specialists and heads of the national cartographic, geodetic and cadastral services.	at the opening ceremony b.smagulov informed the participants on the ongoing work in the surveying and mapping industry in kazakhstan .	0,52
Products exceeding the needs of the region's population are exported to the northern regions of the republic and the CIS countries, as well as to neighboring countries.	farm surpluses are used in northern regions , and the cis countries .	0,52
the introduction of similar requirements in other specialties is now under consideration.	the issue of the introduction of such a requirement for other professions is discussed .	0,52
summing up the meeting, he noted that the main goal for Asar Mamin Thkb is the development of transportation along the trans-Caspian route.	a. mamin said that the main aim is to develop the transportation service on the trans-caspian route .	0,52
It is worth noting that experts of the World Bank and the EBRD positively assessed the changes in the field of public procurement, - said R. Beketayev.
The participants of the event also agreed that the goods of the agricultural industry of the Eaeu should be evaluated with uniform requirements in third countries and in foreign markets.
only after that will the judicial commission of the jury evaluate the qualifications.
having got acquainted with the work of local boiler houses, s.k. highly appreciated their readiness for the heating season.
I participated in conferences in five regions of Kazakhstan.
About 20 pines are provided with an anti-tuberculosis dispensary.
It is noted that 13 teams, including more than 90 employees, took part in the double-double.
children get used to living independently.
we prove the scientific effectiveness of all these dry transitional lands, areas.
The Kazakh and Japanese sides also approved a protocol between the financial intelligence agencies.
great potential in the manufacturing sector of the economy.
the proposed regulation of labour relations has been developed in accordance with labour standards and those of the international labour organization.
it was attended by citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan aged 18 to 29 years (inclusive) from all regions of Kazakhstan, as well as groups of projects consisting of no more than 5 people.
This clinic operates as part of the provision of free guaranteed medical care. this clinic will operate in the framework of the guaranteed volume of free medical care , providing high-tech medical services to the general population of the region .
The event was attended not only by professional actors, but also young talents who want to show their art through the history of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate. the event was attended not only by professional actors , but also the young theater-goers who want it as an example of formation of the kazakh khanate self-realization , to show themselves and to pass through itself the whole story .
all these cadets worked out in practice as part of company-tactical exercises.
The ambassador also got acquainted with the work of the largest refinery in Canada, irvingoil company in St. John and met with the professors of New Brunswick University.
today, July 30, Almaty and Beijing will present themselves.
Despite the crisis in the world, the head of state signs laws that improve the standard of living of the population. despite the global crisis , the president improves the quality of life .
a campaign to declare property and capital - in anticipation of the period of general declaration of income.
soloists in different duets, trio, pas de, grans, show excerpts from the best and favorite ballets.
the bill amends and supplements a number of legislative acts.
now military educational institutions will be able to select a better contingent of students.
the theater administration is considering the possibility of staging other productions in the open space.
border guards checked technical items and showed maintenance using service dogs.
A.Myrzakhmetov during the meeting reported to the Head of State on the implementation of the instructions announced at the last meeting of the political council bureau, as well as the main programs of the party.
a ceremony of awarding the winners took place in the capital's Palace of Peace and Harmony.
The head of the region got acquainted with the work of the Mynaral cement plant.
The question that experts talk a lot about is the rule of law.
This work is carried out by our company together with the Atameken NPP.
in the category of academic singing - the main prize of the world in the capital's shahriz.
At the same time, 25,000 people performed the anthem in all districts of the Akmola region.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the current situation requires the development of additional organizational and legal mechanisms providing for transparency in decision-making in the field of public procurement, including strengthening public control over these processes and widespread use of the capabilities of electronic resources.
then the boxes were delivered by rail from Estonia to Russia to the capital.
the union fully meets its grain needs.
The President of Afghanistan also noted that the Kazakh people under the leadership of the Head of State managed to create a stable and prosperous state.
he has highly qualified specialists, convenient geographical location.
To amend the educational policy for schools with low academic performance.
the program of the evening presents works of chamber music of the Romantic era: a sonata of beethoven violin and piano No. 2, a sonata of brahms No. 1 for cello and piano, f. insert schubert for piano No. 4, f. piano trio No. 1 mendelssohn.
secondly, within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, there is a need to regulate relations in this area with national legislation.
According to the Vice Minister, the most relevant in the field of public procurement is the rejection of bids for formal reasons.
rice stem is used in the karatal area, and peas in the remaining two areas.
During the talks, Sergey Sidor and Vice President of the Austrian Union of Industrialists considered the implementation of a number of projects in the field of energy engineering and the production of equipment necessary for the production of food with the participation of Austrian businessmen.
The head of the city emphasized the social significance of the industrial zone in the Alatau region.
As blair of three-penny pollok noted, Kazakhstanis will go to help air carriers.
this is housing for waiting lists of local executive bodies and young families.
a few years ago, with friends who came to their senses, we began to motor to get to Almaty. several years ago , the desire to ride with friends from atyrau to almaty grew into the idea of car rally .
on the right, the bas-relief depicts Kazakhstani soldiers who died in the Great Patriotic War, on the left - Kazakh batyrs who crashed the Dzungar.
The head of the region got acquainted with the construction of residential buildings for North Kazakhstan residents.
Recall that the astronauts are waiting for a meeting of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the capital's airport.
now it needs to be treated on the other side, "said the head of the capital, calling for the mobilization of all departments related to this work.
Participants noted that modern methods can eliminate terrorism and extremism.
The public authorities of the member States of the Union should ratify the agreements in the near future.
According to the expert, based on these positions, the Academy has completely changed its programs on the basis of a basic and balanced approach, from the corresponding point of view, prepared by the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption together with leading international centers.
You can create a specific database from this database.
anyone can train on the sports ground.
So, in 2014-2015, Kazenergokabel supplied cable-wire wire products worth 709 million tenge to the region, over the past two and a half years, ksp steel LLP delivered a seamless pipe worth 26 billion tenge to the oil and gas complexes of the western region.
this is the most significant event in the history of our country, the highest indicator.
the meeting was attended by guests from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
the holiday began with the simultaneous performance of the national anthem.
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 13.08.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.0 billion tenge.
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 25.08.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.0 billion tenge.
According to the calculation of 1-r at the 31.07.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
fighters spend a week in the field.
In the next three years, it is planned to increase fish processing rates from 3,800 to 8 thousand tons and send finished products to Europe.
The programme will lay the foundation for the sustainable development of the country in the future.
technical assistance will also be provided.
The relocation of the offices of enterprises-manufacturers of the kazatomprom is carried out as part of the instructions of the head of state.
Vice Minister of Education and Science Yesengazy Imangaliyev gave a positive assessment of the work of preschool organizations in the region.
the traffic intensity there is 20 thousand cars per day, and in the Karagando-Abai part - 16 thousand cars per day.
an expanded range of fish and its processed products is delivered to Russia, as well as to European countries - France and Germany, since this year 4 tons of products have been shipped to these areas.
As of August 13 of this year, 21 objects have been put up for auction, of which 10 objects have been sold.
during a sudden check, performing tactical and combat missions, special attention was paid to working out actions with lifting AK units by alarm.
I am also grateful to teachers and parents who have devoted their time to educating children.
In this direction, much attention is paid to entrepreneurship.
rabbits are fed as alfalfa and sunflower feed to produce quality products.
Over the past three years, the Supreme Court has carried out a lot of work on the introduction of information technologies in order to improve the quality of work of employees, strengthen the material and technical base, increase the efficiency of legal proceedings, "said Deputy Permanent Representative of the Central Bank Munkhtuya Altangerel at a press conference in the Central Communications Service.
In connection with Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO, the heads of state adopted a package of documents ensuring the implementation of information in the norms of the union. in connection with accession of kazakhstan to the wto , supreme eurasian economic council decided to implement the new tariffs in the eaeu rules , " the chairman of the board of the eurasian economic commission viktor khristenko said at a meeting of the supreme eurasian economic council .
It is planned that in 2015 the volume of production will be 439 thousand tons.
Last week, Kazakhstan completed all ratification procedures for the accession of Kyrgyzstan.
The head of the region noted a good pace of construction work, but paid due attention to the landing work of engineering networks and warned of the need to do landscaping from September to October.
but for the first time, glenn morrison will come to the muse-tv award.
also visited the umai charity house in this building, where he got acquainted with the condition of children.
photos taken next to various festive sculptures are published.
at the same time, the submission of documents for legal assistance determines the location or compliance of persons and forms.
design territories of East Kazakhstan region and Irtysh region, zones of arid bottom and saxaul of river island in Kyzylorda region.
Thus, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted in the first reading a bill "On introducing amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the improvement of special economic zones."
In total, 35 mini-centers open at the school operate in the district.
The discovery of terracotta troops was one of the greatest discoveries of the 20th century.
earlier, Kazakhstanis received this information from Russian colleagues.
At the same time, with the support of Roscosmos, Kazakhstan got the opportunity to train its astronauts and launch them into space.
for this it was necessary to think a little.
modernization was carried out ten years ago.
to do this, we need to know each other better.
This year, twice as many large families took part in the competition, 1.5 times more young families than last year. the contest attracted large and young families .
In the first six months of 2015, nmg and emg sold 4,162 thousand tons of oil (166 thousand barrels per day).	oil sails of umg and emg amounted to 4,162 thousand tons .	0,53
Karaganda region this year became one of the most affected by spring floods.	also , people realized the priority of the head of state .	0,53
this is a real Kazakhstani patriotism!, the akim said.
100 concrete steps - the implementation of the national plan for the implementation of five institutional reforms in the formation of the local police service, Accountable to local executive bodies and the local community, with a view to strengthening the prevention of public order and crime, Increasing public confidence in the activities of internal affairs bodies and ensuring transparency in their work, the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the activities of the local police service";
It is worth noting that the new multifunctional rink is a special sports facility consisting of the main rink, a hockey academy with an individual platform, an Olympic swimming pool and a diving pool.
finished products are then exported, most are sent to Russia.
the bill approves a special legal regime on the territory of the center.
today, according to data for the past three years, 25-26% are "medium" and "sufficient" groups, 74-75% belong to the high-performance group, "he said.
In the competitiveness rating of the World Economic Forum (WEF) according to the report on global competitiveness, Kazakhstan improved its position last year by 8 points and took 42nd place among 140 countries of the world.
Currently, our servicemen are actively preparing for the upcoming event.
today there are about 500 companies in the country with the participation of American capital.
Equal opportunities for persons with disabilities with other citizens.
Sheikh also expressed readiness for further development of cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of informatization, mass media.
Now one of the brightest holidays of Kazakhstan is the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	in addition , the number of participants will be doubled .	0,53
Dariga Nazarbayev and deputy Nikolai Kuzmin.	dariga nazarbayeva and deputy nikolai kuzmin are the initiators .	0,53
coal was purchased in accordance with the upcoming heating season.	the necessary amount of coal has been bought for the upcoming winter season .	0,53
Kazakhstan and China reached the finish line of the defense of appeals.	tomorrow , we will choose the host city for the olympic games-2022 .	0,53
voiced a master plan, spoke about the construction of the exhibition complex.	the representatives of the caribbean region have shown interest .	0,53
The akim of Pavlodar received the keys to the new apartment.	the keys to the apartments were given by mayor of pavlodar bulat bakauov .	0,53
silver went to the Vietnamese, the third place went to the Iraqi.	vietnam won the  silver , " the third place went to iraq .
positive results can be observed today.
first of all, the plant is adapted to the domestic market of Kazakhstan.
To date, Kazakhstan employs about 12 thousand psychologists in the field of education.
Japan is very active in nuclear energy.	in the future , the project will be developed .	0,53
Participants expressed hope that the film would continue to be shown in New York in full.	the event 's participants expressed hope to see the rest part of the documentary in new york .	0,53
the committee acts as an independent legal entity of a non-profit public organization.	it is a non-profit community organization and serves as an independent legal entity .	0,53
more than 3 thousand people work at the company's enterprises.	the main purpose was to prevent violations in construction of facilities .	0,53
the work of ensuring the economic interests of the State is under special control of the prosecutor's office. in addition , the general prosecutor 's office recovered the debt in the amount of 4.2 billion tenge , " the statement reads .
wherein each factor consists of levels due to increased difficulty depending on the volume.
today trade and economic relations of Pavlodar region with Finland are mainly developed in terms of imports of welding machines and devices of metals, ferrous metal products, furnaces and other equipment.
It is a great honor that such an event is taking place.
scientific works on state ethnopolitics, rare books published in small print were sent to each library.	there were also a lot of good deeds , namely in nursing homes , orphanages , homes rehabilitation .	0,53
The complex registered and established the production of more than 40 drugs.	the complex registered and arranged production of more than 40 preparations .	0,53
alarm and communication devices are started, road boxes, electric drive, communication cables are installed at the stations.	the worksites have been also built , being housing for railroad workers is ready to be commissioned .	0,53
Mr. Tsacheva noted that in order to increase the pace of Kazakh-Bulgarian communication, it is important to open direct flights between the two countries, simplify the visa regime with the European Union.	a separate paragraph of the memorandum is devoted to the interaction of parliamentarians and the new partnership between the european union - central asia .	0,53
from one crew on a t-72 tank from each country.	according to the report , each country is presented by one crew on the t-72 .	0,53
the second issue is crop diversification.	the second question is the diversification of crop production ,  saparbayev said .
The main feature of the project is to provide owners of catering facilities with appropriate advice on improving their activities.
We continue to develop mass sports, we are improving yard clubs and sports sections, "said the head of the region, speaking at the opening ceremony of the sports event.
a final feasibility study plan will be ready by autumn.
The organizers of the event also expressed gratitude for the opening, eternal flame, flowers, seedlings and a commemorative photo.
kmg in this case sets the rate for concluding long-term agreements with Kazakhstani enterprises.
During the event, the Mayor of the city wholeheartedly congratulated the participants of the bekball saga on the opening of two preschool organizations of the city and noted the importance of building kindergartens in order to implement the most important social issues on behalf of the head of state on the full coverage of children with preschool education and education.
of these, 45,152 residential facilities worth 387.2 billion tenge, 23,206 non-residential facilities worth 130.0 billion tenge, including 5,562 commercial facilities worth 92.4 billion tenge, 19 participation interests of legal entities worth 1.3 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.
he will be assigned a manager for the commercialization of our technologies, who will actively attract investors, "said D. Egizbaev.
Recall that today in the capital there is an international scientific and practical conference dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the system of technical and professional education.
in addition, ways to implement reforms are indicated.
As noted by the Attorney General, the proposed systemic measures should be aimed at achieving concrete results of preventive work, should include appropriate measures to prevent and suppress crimes, strengthen the rule of law and public security.
The result of the joint work of Kazakhstan and the concern should be the constant participation of Kazakhstan in current tourist offers in the tourist markets of Europe and Germany.
The event was attended by deputies of Akmola regional maslikhat, representatives of state bodies and creative intelligentsia, heads of higher educational institutions, directors of libraries and museums.
At the meeting, the deputies of the maslikhat asked their questions and agreed to work together.
Baurzhan Baibek instructed to quickly complete the paperwork and eliminate existing gaps by the end of November.
As part of the execution of the order of the head of state, the judicial system is tasked with transferring the cassation court from the region to the competence of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan. as the concept of legal policy is in the protection of constitutional rights and interests of citizens and the right is the supreme value .
Recall that the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan has developed and approved a project to open an educational savings fund for orphans and children left without parental care.
Representatives of the Kyrgyz Republic would now be authorized as members of the advisory committee.
It is noted that 45,166 applications for the legalization of real estate totaling 431.4 billion tenge were received by the commission on legalization of property in Kazakhstan under local executive bodies.
the share of foreign currency deposits increased from 55.5% to 65.9%.
Currently, work is underway to export to the warehouse.
Seeds are also concerned about the fate of the victims and the condition of low-income families during the test site based there.
In addition, representatives of the prosecutor's office reminded interested structures of the need to form the necessary working conditions on the part of employers, comply with safety measures, and timely payment of monthly wages.
the Kazakh delegation was headed by the deputy chairman of the civil aviation committee of the flippers, and the Chinese side by the deputy head of the aviation administration of the PRC.
The transition to the international standard of reporting on solid mineral reserves will significantly increase the investment attractiveness and competitiveness of the mining sector of Kazakhstan.	in accordance with crirsco requirements , kazakhstan is to establish an independent national organization to report on resources and reserves - kazrc association .	0,53
however, science is not an area that produces such quick results.	of course , somewhere there was lack of experience , miscalculation .	0,53
the sale of tribal young is carried out mainly through an auction.	sale of pedigree cattle mainly is held through the auctions .	0,53
college curators and university students underwent special training.	in the future , similar offices will appear in other regions .	0,53
Tokayev also spoke about strengthening the interaction of the congress with the alliance of civilizations and other communication structures.	k. tokayev also called for the strengthening of cooperation with the congress of the alliance of civilizations of the united nations and other interactive structures .	0,53
After the meeting, the relevant committee was instructed to make an additional report at the meeting of both chambers, which will be held on June 17 this year.	after discussion , the senate committee on finance and budget was instructed to prepare a supplementary report to the joint session of parliament , which will take place on june17 .	0,53
At the same time, it is worth noting that at this time the improvement work is close to completion, and in the next 10 days 150 residents will be handed the keys to 30-apartment buildings.	currently , 150 residents will be given the keys to the five 30-appartment houses .	0,53
Recall, the 59th step is aimed at attracting strategic investors in the field of energy conservation through mechanisms recognized at the international level.	recall , the 59th step is aimed at attracting strategic investors in the field of energy saving through an internationally recognized mechanism of energy contracts .	0,53
installing a memorial plaque on the wall of the house where the legendary hero lived is only part of the respect for yesterday's feat of the older generation, "the akim said.
N. Zhazylbekov at a meeting with representatives of law enforcement agencies (iib, ukk, Academy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs) spoke about five institutional reforms, innovations in bills considered in parliament.
three years ago, the poultry farm was pledged under a loan of half a billion tenge. poultry plant was built three years ago on a credit loan .
During the visit, the head of the region visited a number of peasant farms in the region, got acquainted with the state of the sowing campaign and agricultural machinery.
As part of the implementation of the five institutional reforms I initiated, about eighty laws will be adopted. within the five institutional reforms , about 80 laws will be adopted .
The report provides for several areas: access to information, public control.
On October 22 of this year, during a meeting with the Head of the Government-Chief Minister of the Kedah State Muhriz Mohamad, the current state and prospects for the development of bilateral political, trade, economic and interregional cooperation were discussed.
medicines and medical products are in free circulation in the territory of the Eo after passing the rules for registering uniform rules concluded on the basis of the rules and methods of the European Union.
We are very grateful to you for the cooperation of the peoples of Kazakhstan and Russia at the highest level, enshrined in the treaty of eternal friendship and alliance in the 21st century.
deputies of the Majilis visited the city Alexander milyutin Semipalatinsk.
In seven regions, the number of criminal cases has increased.
According to the Governor of the region, the industrial area is 76.2 hectares, of which 63 hectares are land for business.
our children do not attract secondary orphans. " Lviv.
The head of state stressed that this means recognition of the spiritual heritage of the Indian people on the part of the entire world community.
Starting with sanitary cleaning, the site of the slaughter and the laboratory was organized in accordance with the requirements.
This will positively affect the development of logistics of distribution networks and medicines, "the report said.
consumers will buy world goods of high quality at cheaper prices.
A. Dyak noted that children, having received education, come to Kazakhstan and work.
Therefore, today's bill forms the basis of legislation for the implementation of the instructions of the head of state in this direction and for the introduction of universal declaration in Kazakhstan, "said the Minister of Finance.
in the area of ​ ​ the island it was decided to build a plant for the production of soda ash. the project will be financed by holding " baiterek . "
preparations for construction are now underway in the region.
During the conversation, the historian spoke about how the days of the expedition go, how young people work in the history of Kazakhstan.
previously, bus tickets could be received only at the box office or in car parks, while there was no way to get a ticket back.
The Minister highly appreciated the support of MBV in preparation for the Expo-2017 in Astana and spoke about the work done by Kazakhstan to attract international participants, as well as promote the topic of "energy of the future" at prestigious international venues.
methodological work was carried out between state bodies and akimats to hold PPP meetings, retreats and seminars at the level of the quasi-public sector and public administration.
in particular, the budget code is supplemented by provisions related to the planning and execution of state obligations related to the implementation of payments from the budget in the framework of contractual relations for public-private partnership projects, as well as the definition of conditions for measuring the republican or local affiliation of public-private partnership projects.
All budget organizations, which in the future will be within the competence of the akimat, will publicly report to the public about the work done, "the akim said.
through the image of cruel brothers embarrasses the creature, how much religious figures hate evil, in turn, this evil is opposed by the mental beauty of aida and radames, and their love does not stand up to all criticism and knee before death.
four sound cascades are planned to be installed at the new coke reservoir in the Zhualynsky district.
Implementation of a number of measures and objectives.
citizens who have just started entrepreneurship, as well as working students and many other citizens do not have the opportunity to rent full-fledged offices provided with all needs.	the opening of coworking was possible thanks to the work of subsidiary of national holding  baiterek " " national agency for technological development " jsc ( natd ) .
a monument in honor of the poet was erected here.
During short visits, specialists from various industries will meet with American colleagues and develop long-term cooperation.
also at this meeting, Dairy Paradise LLP presented projects for a dairy farm for 1000 heads of breeding cattle and a modern dairy processing plant.
during the shooting, the cadets fully mastered this task, fulfilling the standards for loading ammunition.	during the firing the military students performed the norm for loading of ammunition .	0,53
Therefore, Kazakhstan offered the principality all three treaties in the field of criminal prosecution.	thanks to its investment attractiveness , there are many people wishing to live there .	0,53
Currently, three objects are being built: an ice arena with 12 thousand seats, an ice arena with 3 thousand seats and an athletic village with 5 thousand seats.	currently three new objects are being built : the 12 000-seats ice palace , the 3000-seats ice arena and 5000 seats athletic village where the participants of the games will live .	0,53
after testing of these pipelines.	currently , measures are being taken for the gas distribution system in the village .	0,53
The general real estate fund is actively involved in the development of the regions, builds residential buildings in close cooperation with local construction companies.	however , as managing director , member of the board of  real estate fund " samruk-kazyna " jsc adilbek kusherov noted , kazakh content consists of two categories : building materials and labor .
several children's health centers will open their doors to vacationers.
Following the meeting, it was agreed to hold a Kazakh-Afghan expert forum in the capital.
according to family members, the competition will increase the responsibility of parents for raising children.
in particular, issues that cause complaints from the population in the field of heat, water supply and electricity are being eliminated.
The Russian Federation noted that the labor path of the president of the research center "Kurchatov Institute" e. Velikhov Nursultan Nazarbayev is filled with effective interaction and significant personal relations in solving state scientific and technical problems relevant for our fraternal countries and people.
The radio capabilities of the Buraldai airport do not allow transport vessels to carry out cargo transportation and landing in difficult periods of severe deterioration of weather conditions, as well as at night and in accordance with the characteristics of the aircraft.
The main tasks of the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization for 2015-2019 are the transfer of current technologies, the development of innovations in the preparation of technological developments.
At 43 km last year, the horse was incorrectly revealed, taking into account other problems, it stopped at 51 km.
Almaty and Beijing application committees hold one briefing per day, the first persons of the delegations of the two countries met with members of the hook these days.
at the first stage, applicants are tested for knowledge of the law and competence.
Thank you to all the brothers who came to this wedding.
every year the population of the region decreases.
in this regard, Kazakhstan, when approving rates, cannot increase the amount of these rates from the agreed volume.
in the second stage, the agency checks the personal qualities of the candidate through a special interview.
the existence of a common border, the transport link between member States of the organization and the migration flow force the adoption of a joint, coordinated set of measures to protect the health of residents of member States.
The delegation's list includes more than 70 participants representing more than 30 companies and 15 educational institutions in the field of green and clean technologies.
the stability of the toad to pressure watercourses was also evaluated.
2 . introduction of a new conditional savings component of the pension system due to the establishment by the employer of an additional 5% of mandatory pension contributions (savings).
at the same time, it is provided for the presence of production training of dual training of at least sixty percent, the completion of practice on the basis of the enterprise.
And the poison proposes to increase this figure to 5-6%.
representatives of the workers' dynasty also expressed appreciation for the respect they had received.
Recall that the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of Akmola region from June 11 to 13, 2015 conducted regional testing among citizens over 18 years old.
in particular, application of proposals of international organizations, standards in the absence of eeo requirements.
If there were the following judges, then during the trial they talked on a mobile phone, recorded on sound and video recordings, "said K. Mami.
laureates and diplomats of the festival will be awarded with valuable prizes and financial remuneration.
higher tariffs in case of energy surplus.
on the second floor there is a wardrobe for duty groups.
In this regard, the deputy noted that it is necessary to intensify work to stimulate them in order to transfer cars to these types of fuels and expand the rows of gas stations.
According to the department, all seven children in the family receive special attention.
New methods in the field of public control were also considered, currently 1722 councils of public agreements are conducting this work.
Judging by the numerous recordings obtained using video replays, drowsy drivers really constantly lose their eyes when driving.
a building object is being erected in the area near the botanical garden, the area of ​ ​ which is 2.17 hectares, and north of Farabi Avenue.
This area with a population of about a thousand people is a region prone to industry and agriculture.
regional casting fair courts had a responsible task - to choose the best of many talented children.
in the cities of zhezkazgan and balkhash solemn fees and various sports competitions are held with the honor of workers of smelters.
As Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Lyubov noted, Kazakhstan for all years of sovereignty has been engaged in the creation of a single nation of the future.
for example, eckdb.
17 residential facilities in the amount of 647.6 million tenge, 2 non-residential facilities in the amount of 3.7 million tenge, including commercial facilities in the amount of 1.5 million tenge.
the first reading considered amendments to legislation on self-regulation.
in our opinion, an expert society should be involved.
all this directly affects constitutional matter.
the supervisory board is constantly working on the formation of a unified judicial practice and its improvement. the review board works on the uniform court practice and its improvement .
the city of Kazalinsk is officially included in the island zone of ecological disaster.
the difference in the artificial heart of the third generation is similar to human, natural circulation. the difference is - the third generation 's blood circulation is close to the natural .
The Ministry carries out daily monitoring of the immunization campaign.
The head of the region got acquainted with the progress of repair work at the coke sugar plant, visited the slug workshop and the sugar beet processing workshop.
the parties also expressed interest in supporting scientific projects and noted the beginning of this cooperation.
The parties commended the work of the Kazakh-Chinese joint commission on the use and protection of transboundary rivers.
Of course, all these are great historical values ​ ​ from a scientific point of view, "said Vidadi Salakhov.
the yield of the region was 11.2 c/ha.
so, with. Nurzhanov, v. Shepotko, sesarkytova, etc. Seisembayev, a.bakenov, k.b. Aykozhaev, b.amirenov, a.zoldybayev, grocery, in-house.
air defense forces provided landing from a vertical mi-8 aircraft.
Since 2011, the national holding Kazagro has brought 50.5 thousand heads of cattle of high productivity to the country, and fattening grounds for 123.9 thousand heads have been created.
The agreement will allow ships on which the EAEU flag hangs to sail freely through the territory of the member states of this organization, "the press service said.
in addition, the transfer of cases on the optimization of staffing and administrative costs to the competence of the managers themselves will improve the managerial qualities of managers and thereby create a smaller and smaller apparatus.
As you know, the Zhambyl athlete won a bronze medal at the Paralympic Swimming World Championships in Scottish Glasgow.
1.56 billion tenge).
Thanks to the policy of the head of state, we have a completely different generation who speak Kazakh, Russian, English and other languages.	the opening of nazarbayev intellectual school was initiated by the head of state within  20 intellectual schools " state program .
The senators' proposals also called for a reduction in the participation of the prosecutor in civil litigation sessions in order to simplify judicial procedures and speed up the judicial process.
the guest, who paid special attention to cultural and humanitarian ties, thanked the Kazakh country for the opportunity to place a memorial sign to the victims of Estonian repressions at the Spassky Memorial Complex.
In addition, according to the political scientist, for Kazakhstan the opening of the border with Kyrgyzstan opens the door to new opportunities.
A. Sarinzhipov thanked the faculty of the university.
Kyzylorda is in the top three in terms of fertility in the country.
According to the expert, when developing the law on public service, knowledge of work in the service is taken into account.
The bill provides for a change in the legal status of the council by transforming the supreme judicial council into an independent institution and expanding its personnel powers.	this body will consist of the president of the agency for civil service affairs and combating corruption , scientists , lawyers , foreign experts and representatives of the union of judges ,  judge of the supreme court akyltay kassymov said .
situational tests are also introduced to test the qualifications and knowledge of candidates for judges, a probationary period of one year is set for newly elected judges.
Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan Baibek visited the territory of Nauryzbay district with a working trip.
Deputy Mayor of Aktobe congratulated the mothers with many children and noted that the demographic situation in the region and the city is improving.
In the framework of public-private partnership and preparation of other concession projects, competitions for the construction and use of kindergartens in cities with growth and families were completed in East Kazakhstan region.
the profession of a doctor was a respected, respected profession among society, wherever it was.
they do not know what specialists the enterprise needs.
Following the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev instructed state bodies to accelerate the development of proposals for the preparation of the forum.
Attempts to prosecute minors.
the question of the need to oblige in the future to place an order for sewing uniforms for schoolchildren only among domestic light industry companies.
because the region we live in is one.
For 6 months of the current year, CIS citizens were granted 591 work permits from individuals and the stay of 591 citizens was extended.
deepening cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development would be of particular importance in achieving that goal.
So, according to the results of sociological research, several seminars-meetings were organized throughout the republic, where special methodological textbooks and various thematic memos are distributed, "he said.
the theme of the congress and its sectional sessions allow us to discuss current issues and develop proposals for their solution.
coach Vladimir Rus.
g. regalia paid special attention to the preservation of peace and harmony in society.
He noted that institutional reforms create conditions for changing personnel policy in the civil service, moving to a career model of the civil service, regulating the effective activities of the public service as a whole.
its implementation will optimize the existing heat supply system, improve the quality of heat supply to right-bank consumers and improve the environmental situation in the city.
With these funds, a garden with 600 seats will be opened in the Kargaly district of kindergarten for 320 and 320 seats.
The 59th step of the National Plan provides for attracting investors in the energy saving industry, which will be carried out through energy service contracts. in the national plan the 59th step is aimed at attracting of investors in the sphere of energy conservation through energy service contracts .
In turn, we are confident that in 2020 this measure will increase compliance with icao standards from 65 to 75%, "said A. Issekeshev.
his wife gave him two sons and four daughters.
During the meeting, their proposals for opening a football academy with growth were discussed.
it will be attended by crews of surface ships of the naval forces of the Caspian countries.
the idea of ​ ​ the silk road and the development of the economy is the union itself.
this opportunity is addressed by many families.
In addition, 17,259 applications were received from graduates of schools and graduates of vocational education who entered after the 11th grade, and 44,261 from graduates of vocational education who entered after the 9th grade.	including 17 259 applications were received from school leavers , 19 765 applications - from graduates of technical and vocational education ( tve ) who won admission after the end of the 11th grade , and 44 261 applications - from graduates of tve who won admission after the 9th grade .	0,54
During the round table, they will discuss education in the field of combating corruption in the higher and postgraduate education system, and consider important aspects of the anti-corruption approach.	therefore , the appropriate culture in the society is the priority that is placed in the modern anti-corruption policy ,  chief inspector of the anti-corruption education and interaction with the public of the agency for civil service and the anti-corruption salauat muksimov has said .
The purpose of signing the memorandum is to support socially vulnerable segments of the population.
Key parties and directions of this strategic document were discussed in the region's asset.
Of the 223 indicators, 72% were completed or exceeded, while 19% achieved a significant improvement compared to the base year 2008.
a group of young people is close to information adaptation.
(b) How much do specific forms decrease when copied?
our plant has undergone ongoing repairs and is completely restored, fully ready for acceptance of farmers' products, "said the head of the region.
such obligations also apply to Russia.
In turn, Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov noted that after the completion of the work on the coordination of concession projects, a tender procedure will be announced in interested institutions, in which a South Korean company can take part.
As noted by the Chairman of the Committee for Monitoring in the Field of Education Sayyat Nyusupov, local executive bodies are responsible for providing textbooks on a legislative basis.
The people's representatives are invited to discuss a number of ratification bills.
the potential of the region, rich in all the resources available here.
Within the framework of this meeting, issues of further planning of joint activities in the field of energy efficiency in Kazakhstan and the strategy of industrialization and modernization of the network will be discussed.
It is worth noting that in order to solve the issue of providing remote settlements of the Mangistau region with clean, high-quality drinking water, it is planned to launch a water pumping plant "Caspian."
for the basis of an effective partnership, we can call the legal framework for interaction calculated by several dozen bilateral documents signed at different levels.
one relates to the effective study of resources allocated to schooling.
As a rule, it begins with Almaty, and now we plan to start this direction from the capital together with business representatives and turn it to such areas as diamond, shymkent, turkestan, "he explained.
now the villagers got the opportunity to purchase train tickets from the nearest post office without visiting the ticket offices of the city's railway stations, the report said.
The regional akim Danial Akhmetov instructed to organize the event.
the judicial board has been working for a very long time, people participate in the consideration of a criminal case.
the advantage of our fight is a more affordable sport than hockey and golf. the advantage of the kazakh kures is an affordable sport .
this is school No. 77 with the Kazakh language of instruction, mixed school No. 79 with the Kazakh and Russian language of instruction and No. 81 "astana English school" with the English language of instruction.
one of them is the center management council.
Also, the activities of the Eurasian Economic Commission require appropriate support from the deputies, "the report said.
the parties discussed priority areas of cooperation of member states within the organization.
the work analyzes the experience gained by the head of Kazakhstan during state construction, which made it possible to determine the strategic direction of the state during geopolitical changes.
Currently, the project of the second modernized ship of the border service of the Republic of Kazakhstan is being implemented.
In general, the route of the expedition in the Karkaralinsky district was very large-scale.
organizer and head of the aibek sultanbek circle, teacher of this college.
these issues are under special control and are constantly discussed during summits, "the ambassador said.
We must review our plans, analyze the work done and those farms that will be implemented in the future. today we need to revise our plans , to determine what has been done .
In addition, the consultant of the national company noted that at present there is an increase in interest among domestic companies.
this is a return visit from the Chinese side.
In addition, the Senate ratified the intergovernmental readmission agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia and the executive protocol on the procedure for the implementation of this Agreement.
the region is actively preparing for the heating season.
According to him, entrepreneurs of the two countries should not consider the removal of the customs barrier as an increase in access to new markets.
As at the initial stage of our independence, privatization must be carried out decisively.	the president emphasized the need to eliminate non-core assets in order to improve economic indicators .	0,54
the third direction is the transition to concession.	we consider ways to solve this issue ,  said the head of the region .
leading top managers of Kazakhstan and specially invited speakers to this meeting shared their experience with novice entrepreneurs.
And in the matter of inter-parliamentary cooperation, the Chairman of the Majilis drew attention to the fact that in recent years activity in relations with members of the European Parliament has increased.
and if some kind of assistance is not provided, then you have to reduce jobs.
Over the 23 years of establishing diplomatic ties, cooperation between the two countries has significantly strengthened, developing as reliability, equality, and mutual benefit.
In total, the organizing committee received 30 appeals from bloggers on military posts published on the Internet from different regions of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the meeting, joint proposals were developed, the results of research and expert work on combating global drug trafficking were discussed.
Askar Zhumagaliyev thanked the Governor of the region for supporting the enterprises, noting that "kazatomprom" is actively involved in the socio-economic development of the region.
In turn, the guest focused on the economic sphere, noted a significant increase in trade between the two states, an increase in export volumes in a number of industries.
he calls not only on the Ukrainian crisis parties to the peaceful path, but also on the entire world community to increase mutual confidence through open dialogue, to create a solid basis for regional and global security.
The United Nations has held negotiations and discussions on the most pressing issues of our time, and has made a special contribution to the preservation of peace, security and stability as a universal and unprecedented platform for the presentation of balanced conclusions.
due to changes in the current.
The Agricultural Leasing Program acts as an aid to farmers.
The facility employs more than 100 people.
And today more than three hundred types of products are produced there.
The fiber plant for the production of meat products has become a participant in the program to support private entrepreneurs in the field of processing.
He noted that this year a project was approved to improve the quality of services on "Kazakhstan railways" and "white" transportation.
students in grades 9-10 of the Lomonosov school of the Ulan-Ude district not only submitted their projects, but also received consultations from experts from the capital and Italy.
the total length of roads is 9,516 km, of which the length of roads of republican significance is 1,410 km, and the length of roads of local importance is 8,106 km. The total amount of financing for 2015 amounted to 9,451.7 million tenge, including: 1) the republican system - 4,111.4 million tenge; 2) local system - 5 340.3 million tenge.
The Governor of the region praised the yield of grain crops.
The main goal of social projects is to provide real assistance to people with disabilities, elderly people, people in difficult life situations, large and low-income families, and other socially vulnerable segments of the population.
now the first five-year plan has ended.	this agency started to control the financial institutions .	0,54
he noted that the operational areas in terms of cost are China and Turkey.	we have to create some tools to control the customs value , to automate all activities ,  - added n.marusich.
However, it noted that non-governmental organizations were members of the inter-ministerial commission for adolescents and the protection of their rights.
in addition, he explained the need to attract a large telecom operator to the region with many years of experience in creating information systems and telecommunications services.
I wish all participants success in the implementation of the state information policy, "said the general director of Kazmedia Center mirbolat ayupov.
in addition, he regularly participates in foreign benefits.
Within the framework of FIID, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan decided to support manufacturers of finished products to enter foreign markets.
I wish the competition to be fair, interesting and successful.
examined historical and cultural places and drew public attention to them.
this proposal was supported by the Department of Industry and Tourism of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the society helped create a Eurasian club of scientists in the capital and actively participates in the work of the communication platform of g-global scientists and experts.
as a result, the globe filled out and filed an application for a patent for the invention it invented "production of ice cream based on koumis and shubat."
this procedure for the appointment of judges is complex, new, more stringent criteria for the selection of judges are set.
the parties also paid special attention to the prospects for infrastructure modernization in the country.
Guests of the forum and delegates took part in the exhibition of innovative ideas and projects of youth, which will be organized in the Palace of Students.
why this skull underwent such an operation.
Recall that in 2015, about 340 thousand children attended the first exam in the country.
It is worth noting that to date Kazakhstan has not repaired self-propelled artillery installations.
I think that in the near future Kazakhstanis, including graduates of Nazarbayev University, will be able to show their creativity, "the leader of the nation emphasized.
the judicial system has also kept pace with these trends.
During the Shu summit on July 10, a statement will be made on the expansion of the organization.
we must rely on large business, ready for social projects.
paving roads and footpaths - asphalt concrete.
in his introductory speech. abdykalikova called on the conference participants to support the initiatives of the head of state n.a.
At the same time, the expert noted that society is highly valued for 100 steps.
in addition, distinguished units and fighters will receive letters, gifts and prizes from the commander in chief of the ground forces.
Now about 50% is accounted for by those companies where Kazakhstani workers work, "said M.Myrzagaliev.
In this direction, a number of documents can be adopted during the congress, "said the head of the Department of Ethnic and Religious Tolerance of UNESCO Adilbek Shalakhmetov.
the second is the insurance package provided by the newly created health insurance fund.
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens during the next visits of mobilization groups, the report said.
During the event, concert numbers with songs and dances of marital amateur activities were presented.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and leaders of Turkic-speaking states take part in the event.
In turn, Mr. Kerlikovsky noted the special importance of the regional conference held in the capital, which will allow finding ways of mutual exchange of experience and integration with many states of the region.
Exchange rate differences are paid by term deposits of individuals.
in the amount of 525 million tenge and 473 million tenge from 4 and 6 projects, respectively.
According to the minister, Vietnam will soon send a written agreement on participation in the exhibition in the capital and next month will appoint a responsible commissioner to the national pavilion of Vietnam at EXPO-2017.
in spirit, the duel gets closer to me.
because everyone is waiting for a high-quality path.
today, not only breeding and fishing are established in the island area, but also the processing of these products.
Rector of the All-Russian State University of Cinematography named after S. Gerasimov V. Malyshev wished Nursultan Nazarbayev confidence in achieving his goals and expressed his intention to successfully fulfill all planned programs.
The Vice Minister also noted that in the future the pilot mobile groups will become electronic at the level of the akim of the rural district.
changing times require police officers to take a new approach to their affairs.
negotiations were held with more than 50 WTO member countries.
we signed a memorandum of cooperation with the management of expo-32017.
its participants were artists of the Kazakh Musical and Drama Theater. K.
this is the only plant in Almaty region for the production of domestic canned food.
About 900 athletes, representatives of 144 countries, more than 200 foreign journalists and representatives of international organizations arrive in the country to participate in these competitions.
In general, the program provides 3 billion 32 million tenge for the modernization of thermal pipelines, 3,617 million tenge were allocated for the modernization of the drinking water system.
By 2035, about 2 trillion dollars of investment per year will be required to supply the planet's energy supply, "said A. Rau.
the chairman of the board expressed confidence that these things will become a significant part of the exposition.
He noted that the three-tier system would be responsive and consistent with international requirements.
Today, family education in the pedagogical, social and economic situation is effectively supported by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	taking into account the effectiveness of children 's villages , several laws were signed by the president on december 3 , 2004 .	0,54
not to hide that a significant innovation of the current month is the entry into force of the agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Agreement on the EAEU.
Conditional cash assistance is provided to a family with at least one able-bodied member, subject to the conclusion of a social contract, as well as compulsory participation in employment measures for all able-bodied family members.
this is primarily the implementation of a global breastfeeding strategy for infants.
aa. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan will further contribute to the development of understanding among civilizations and is interested in the exchange of experience.
Regarding the execution of the current budget, the head of the capital instructed the administrators of budget programs to be attentive to each allocated tenge.
We are very pleased that today we signed another memorandum with one of the largest Kazakhstani companies that provide quality standards for their competitors at the regional level, "said the chairman of the board of Astana Expo 2017. Yessimov.
therefore, he can request additional expertise through the portal.
At the same time, we pursued three goals: to consider litigation of this category at a high professional level, to form an even judicial practice, to raise doubts that the influence of local authorities on the decision of affairs by foreign investors may be.
At present, we are laying rails on odd tracks at the origins of the beam station, "says the deputy director of the directorate for the construction of the railway line - the white branch of the Ktzh, the head of the construction department for the beam-shubarkol railway line generously.
At the constituent meeting, all participants unanimously stated that the opening of the Kazakh cultural center was another important step aimed at developing Kazakhstan's Swiss cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
a nurse who recently opened the profession had difficulty caring for his animals.
And our task under the leadership of the head of state in the first place is to discuss the concept of the constitution of the new state
in the city for the first quarter of this year, the indicator grew by 9.2%.
The authors of these ideas undergo training and educational seminars.
the participants discussed the military-political situation in Syria and contributed to the settlement of the Syrian crisis as part of the Geneva process, "he said.
The Palace of Independence occupies a special place in the architectural ensemble of the capital.
the meeting considered the main directions for the implementation of the five institutional reforms.
Each of the participants of ioi-2015 gathers the strongest young programmers in the world, claiming the title of the best intellectual of the world level.
with the connection of online stores to the module, you do not need to track updated tariffs, the module is automatically updated, supplemented with final data on the price and types of services.
against the background of the flag soap, the national pattern is depicted in the form of a vertical strip.
The victory was handed over to the Kenzhebayevs by the akim of the region.
interviewed others, or spent years professionally studying the vivid biography and multifaceted activities of the country's leader.
Recall that the Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kabibullah Jakupov announced the open fifth session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the state is interested in selling 650 enterprises that will be liquidated or converted to private property, 100 companies are privatized, sold at auctions.
we intend to develop tourism in Almaty, so the city should be safe and comfortable for life, "the head of state said.
most of the construction items are removed from the area.
Following the results of the festival, participants were awarded letters of thanks and diplomas.
For 10 months of the current year, 1300 places have been opened in preschool institutions of Akmola region as part of the Balapan program, "the akim of the region said.
One of the effective measures is the creation of engineering and communication infrastructure for business facilities, which will eliminate many barriers to the opening of private businesses by novice entrepreneurs.
The head of state noted that traditionally a lot of attention is paid to the development of the region, the head of which has a special responsibility.
In addition, the draft Code simplified measures for employers to hire, transfer personnel, dismiss an employee, determine working conditions and pay for them.	at the same time the basic labor guarantees and rights of employees with the possibility of extension through negotiated individual , collective agreements and contracts , as well as tools to protect their rights and interests are fixed .	0,54
In a month, the organizers of the competition visited about 2,000 schools and were able to attract more than 17,000 people to the expo-mychina.kz site.	the winners received scholarships to study in china , and an invitation to visit the exhibition expo-2015 in milan .	0,54
conductors - the hooker of the Mukhitdins, Aidar Abzhakhans, the dreamer of the Orazhgals.	the second part will include masterpieces of opera audiences .	0,54
Within the framework of state programs, measures are being effectively implemented to reform health care, improve the provision of medical care to the population, "said A. Batalov.	i think that because of this the population of the village and the district can always count on timely and quality medical care , especially that clinic is equipped with modern medical equipment worth a total of 347.1 million tenge ,  the governor of the region said .
the time was very tight.
It is noted that the Kazakh cosmonaut conducted a number of scientific experiments.
firstly, the Dutch approach is used to increase the auction step.
the congress showed the relevance of cooperation between representatives of world religions on the road to peace for a decent life on this planet.
financing is now provided on a return basis for the repair of houses through the Housing and Communal Services Development Fund with the involvement of second-level banks.
all changes in tariffs for the year are left.
The predominant share of investments has been developed by private sector enterprises, accounting for 67.3 per cent of the total.
more than 4 months from the start of construction work.	the planned payback period is 11 years .	0,55
A. Gazaliyev noted that this year the competitive requirements were very high, 3-4 applicants for a place.	as the speaker noted , these specialties turned out to be quite demanded .	0,55
Recall that the object was transferred three months ago, but was not launched due to problems with light.	the health facility was built three months ago , but it doesn 't function due to a problem with the electricity .	0,55
every Kazakhstani, his family will flourish, the more his father improves the law.	we should realize very firmly , without grandiloquence that being a citizen of the country , we have a direct bearing on the constitution .	0,55
today, for the first time in front of the extended circle, the restoration office reopened its doors.
The heads of a number of organizations informed the akim about the progress of the work.
creative workshops for all visitors will be held there.
from now on, all high-quality and safe medicines by union will be in free circulation.
Also in the letter, the president thanked the head of the city for his good preparation for the 28th Winter Universiade and wished to win the city's right to host the 2022 White Olympic Games.
the management of the plant intends to bring this figure to 30% in the future.
The main purpose of the exercise was to check the readiness of the forces and means of state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan in protecting public security in case of threat and emergency situations, as well as in eliminating unrest in correctional institutions.
results and statistics are shown in the "manager's panel."
Thomas bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, cannot vote.
As O.Rayev noted, the development of infrastructure and the transport corridor of member countries increase interest in the transportation of passengers and cargo.
other small parts of the car were delivered to the capital directly by transport.
among these enterprises, the Island Fish Processing Plant LLP, Ostrov Sdo LLP and Buigen Sdo LLC is engaged in deep processing of modern built fish.
in addition, the saparbayev berdybek examined emergency housing, met with residents and answered questions of interest to them.
improving pension provision for certain categories of citizens.
he also told how Kazakh astronauts will be prepared in front of students.
the personality of an outstanding Kazakh poet, enlightener and philosopher (1845-1904) is the core of the idea in the production.
This document is aimed at bringing the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in line with the norms and rules of the WTO.
half of the republican volume of pharmaceuticals and gasoline is produced in the region.
students and young specialists of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Chemical and Biological Direction of the city of Kyzylorda and general education schools of the city presented their ideas and new projects.
it requires a lot of work from us.
the document also spells out the sale of goods under veterinary supervision.
the program began work on improving the energy efficiency of infrastructure facilities, technological processes, reconstruction of outdoor lighting at crossings and stations.
indeed, there is something to learn, "said S. Sobyanina.
In addition, the Minister noted that work is underway between Italy and Kazakhstan in several areas in the field of publishing in the Kazakh language.
In this regard, officers, through a charity event, intend to show that their model of mercy and charity is an important matter, such as protecting service and the fatherland.
The purpose of the event is to show the customs of the Kazakh people in everyday conditions, the profession of youth and citizens.
In connection with the strategic importance of this task, a professor at Shanghai University was invited to train in the capital.
along with the most exemplary department, the best communications specialist was also named.
deputy akim of the region nurkatov.
a similar situation in the gas market of engines.
The forum brought together about 200 delegates from the CIS countries.
in practice, the above requirements do not allow full employment of persons with disabilities.
Changes made to the notification are prepared on the basis of the most complex barriers in the field of tariff regulation, proposals and complaints of consumers and representatives of the subject.
today we are faced with the task of creating a Kazakh-Ukrainian business council.
Today, the coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years is 86.19%.
and light industry enterprises have long been accustomed to competing.
between the noisy and disputed rivers, the Kazakh khanate was founded here.
if we pass all laws that meet the requirements of the constitution, then this means that the constitution has been implemented, and in this case its peculiarity.	as for the success of kazakhstan , we have joined the top 50 developed countries .	0,55
The head of state drew attention to the need to further develop relations between our countries, taking into account positive trends, such as territorial and cultural-historical proximity.	today , kazakhstan is pursuing an industrial development .	0,55
gold for the development of sheep farming in Kazakhstan "to date, 327 agricultural producers have been granted loans totaling more than 2 billion 500 million tenge.
The Foreign Minister noted that the anniversary event dedicated to the 40th anniversary of the Helsinki final act was held in the capital of Finland on July 10 this year.
as a result of the creation of a single republican museum system, all museums will be merged into one organization.
creation of a union of light industry producers.
It should be noted that the current potential of ecu in the field of combating conflicts in the world can be unique and effective, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
if you take a small enterprise, then from 1000 to 1200 heads.
The head of state also stressed the importance of institutional reforms in the country, including the agrarian sector.
Note that this company LLP "global generation" along with this major project is building small audio releases on a number of rivers in the region.
in particular, documentaries and videos were shot about the mediation of international conferences, regional seminars, round tables, etc., which were broadcast on republican television channels, "the report said.
the main goal of these measures, as well as planned inspections, is to increase the level of combat effectiveness of troops in any case.
more than half of them did not return home from the war.
sweet root weight reaches 5-7 kilograms.
In addition, 1 thousand 602 individuals who evade taxes and 3 thousand 816 cases of entrepreneurship without registration with tax authorities were identified.
producers of Almaty region spoke about the advantages of their products and noted that they can supply large volumes of products.
in addition, he noted that he should solve problems in the field of liquefied gas.
akim of the region asked to specify the delivery schedule of all types of equipment.
also, according to the results of analytical work, the vast majority of high-tech enterprises that can produce similar types of imported goods are located in the Russian zone.
In turn, the Minister of Agriculture of the Czech country expressed a desire to invest in the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan, including the Almaty region, where the Marian river has very favorable conditions, climatic conditions and location.
There are 2.5 million school-age children in the country.
According to the results of the competition, the Prime Minister Bekbaev and the gulzhanate Makhmetova, who collected sand and hooves in the dombyr, were recognized as the best.
Kazakhstan chaired the ecu in 2010 and held a summit of the organization in the capital on December 1-2.	g. abdykalikova has stressed that kazakhstan made and makes mediation efforts to reconcile the conflicting parties in the region of eurasia .	0,55
maestro is sure that the repertoire of the Mariinsky Theater is really of interest to the audience of the capital.	maestro is sure that much of what mariinsky theatre has to offer will be truly interesting in astana .	0,55
Speaking about the current sanitary situation in the capital, akim noted that the main goal of the competent structures of the city is to maintain the appearance of the capital at the proper level.	speaking about the current sanitary status of astana the mayor noted that the main objective of urban structures is to keep the appearance of the capital at the appropriate level .	0,55
In addition, during the ceremony, the honorary worker of education a. Sarinzhipov presented badges, "medals" veteran of labor "and an honorary certificate of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
representatives of the garden follow the presentation live in the press center.
materials on this fact were sent to law enforcement agencies.
It is noted that the winner of the Olympics - Serik Sapiev became the headliner of "aktau open fest 2015."
According to the regional Governor's Office, in honor of the Day of medical workers in the country, the Governor of Pavlodar region, the bozumbayev rope handed over the keys to new ambulances to the chief doctors of district and city hospitals of the region.
About 1200 SMEs were involved in the implementation of the project.
we all need to work together to find a solution to this issue.
The Minister also spoke about the entry of Kazakhstan and Japan into equal law of the 9th Conference on facilitating the entry into force of the Agreement on the Prohibition of Publicly Available Nuclear Tests.
the conference was attended by more than 1,500 people.
In this regard, special charter flights organized on Vilnius cultural days of Astana and during the exhibition can also contribute.
A special delegation of the European Parliament arrived in the capital to participate in the next 13th meeting of the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan-European Union, the ministry said.
At the end of the evening, it is planned to award regional leaders with special medals.
In accordance with the State Program for the Development of Infrastructure "Nұrly zhol" for 2015-2019, Kazavtodor was tasked with ensuring communication between Kazakhstan and the regions and the formation of roads.
attracting strategic German investors to the agricultural complex of Kazakhstan, manufacturing industry, as well as creating innovative clusters with the participation of German capital.
in this case, the passenger will be given cargo immediately at the docking airport.
the title of best dombrist and the medal was received by the capital's runners saken.
he congratulated the employees on the start of the next competition in fire and rescue sports and wished high results.
in the afternoon she began tactical and combat training and the conduct of combat vehicles.
10 agreements on modernization of infrastructure networks of Kyzylorda were signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Employment issues were also discussed.
Also this year, it is planned to fully equip all courtrooms of local courts of the republic in new abt-systems.
The action will be attended by all interested state bodies: HDP "nur-otan," social activists, public groups in the law enforcement field, internal affairs bodies and territorial internal affairs bodies.
The diplomatic mission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, opened in 2002 in Kabul, has been operating in the status of an embassy since 2003.
In recent years, the State has introduced appropriate standards for the re-profiling of young people who have received education in pedagogical and medical specialties through State grants.
the traditions and life of the Kazakh people, the peculiarities of the regions and information about the main cities of the republic will become clear to all first-graders.
654 applications were submitted for the competition, 455 works and applications meeting their requirements were selected.
lying under the tank, overcoming the obstacle course, firing from combat weapons.
its work involves international consultants and will be presented with proposals on policies to improve the effectiveness of legalization as a consultative and advisory body.
earlier, the head of government met with IOC President Thomas Bach.
Within its framework, the main task is to raise the level of marine irrigation and create favorable conditions for the life of aquatic pearls on the small sea.
this is preparation for military games and military games between the troops of the CIS member states.
This can be in Karaganda, and only in large centers of production.
in Pavlodar region interrogated on corruption.
these are the directions in which participants in seconds try to reduce the customs cost.	however , if there are issues related to a reduced customs value , the risk appears .	0,55
The heads of state also expressed their readiness to strengthen cooperation in the field of nuclear energy in connection with the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium in Kazakhstan.	in addition , the heads of states expressed their willingness to strengthen cooperation in the sphere of nuclear power complimented by creation of low-enriched uranium bank in kazakhstan .	0,55
The French side praised the innovative facilities that will be built on the territory of the exhibition complex, and expressed the hope that the holding of the exhibition will positively affect the development of green "technologies in the country.
central heraldic element on the state coat of arms, blue color, reflecting the reflection of the sun from the shanyrak.
in moving in this direction, relations between political public servants and the professional state apparatus are very important.
2 . change of the estimated dollar exchange rate from 250 to 300 tenge;
In addition, he noted that a pharmaceutical inspectorate will be created in the code, which will monitor regulatory legal acts regarding quality control, safety and effectiveness of medicines.
To date, negotiations are underway with 28 countries.
this is a new economic mindset that we must all carry out. today 's situation requires to get away from the dollar , and to support domestic production and , of course , to make everyone understand that the " dollar " is old-fashioned way of thinking .
in the team event, the national team of the region took second place.
I hope that the innovation of the United Arab Emirates in the field of weapons and military equipment will overshadow the exhibition of pavilions in the capital, "the minister said.
the document defines the main conditions for cooperation between the two companies in the field of nuclear energy.
As a result, appropriate recommendations were made and now the law providing for the regulation of atomic energy meets international requirements.
he has been studying for three consecutive years.
developed a process plan for the treatment of sown areas for 1495 ha.
More than eight hundred participants can prove themselves as real warriors.
over the past few years, large fires have not been recorded in the region with growth.
A draft law on the new public service and its subsidiary laws has also been drafted. " assistant.
In addition, the president instructed to solve the problem of depositors.
The point is that without a solution to the issue of interethnic peace and harmony, no reforms can be made.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 149 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 73.6 billion as of 27.07.2015. Tenge, including for the legalization of money - 2.9 billion. Tenge with payment to the budget of 28.9 billion Tenge.
According to the report of RK by banks of the second level as of 28.07.2015 it is opened 151 savings account on legalization of money for total amount of 73.8 billion tenges, including for legalization of money with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting from the savings account of 28.9 billion tenges.
including, as noted by the Tasmaganbets, jbic is ready to participate in projects in which the Kazakh development bank is involved.
Today, more than 1000 training officers serve in the Kazakh army.
In 2015, the second five-year plan of the industrialization map began.
and the project manufacturer, having released his project to the site, is sure that he will not be ignored.
Kazakhstan special forces fighters in the km of Kazakhstan proved and recognized that our army is among the best on the world stage.
in this regard, the role of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan as one of the key institutions for ensuring social harmony and national unity will be especially increased.
It should be noted that the volume of paid tourism services in the field of tourism increased by 14.9% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 3.5 billion tenge.
13 residential objects in the amount of 631.7 million tg, non-residential objects in the amount of 1.5 million tg, including a commercial object in the amount of 1.5 million tg, the participation share of 2 legal entities in the amount of 3.0 million tg; securities in the amount of 670 tenge; 15 objects and securities worth KZT635.4 mln were legalized.
the composition of the advisory committee of the Russian Federation will also be modernized.
As part of the project, a 4-day training on the basics of entrepreneurship was conducted in the RUC under the guidance of experienced business trainers.
competitive nominations are held in order to contribute to the development of increasing entrepreneurial activity among young entrepreneurs of the North Kazakhstan region, to identify and support projects with commercial potential and promising prospects for priority services.
During the briefing, the head of state noted that from the first days of independence Kazakhstan and Tajikistan have been pursuing a policy based on mutual trust and friendship.
recently, negotiations were organized to restore the situation in Syria.
Improved production of meat processing products is needed to improve performance.
the bill also defines the competence of the government, the national bank, the authorized body in the field of trafficking in precious metals and precious stones and establishes responsibility for violations of legislation in this area.
Funds from local executive bodies are used to finance entrepreneurs.
Also, through the event, it is planned to determine theoretical and methodological issues of the national formula "Path of the Leader" and give a new impetus to future research.
And for the holiday they give gifts.
According to him, there are not enough funds allocated for school education.
Mikhail Meyer praised the work of the Kazakh writer, noting that the topic of nomads and their place in eastern history were very important and significant.
from a long-term five-stage system to a three-stage one.
In 1960, a native of his village created a family with a camila pendulum.
it will be held this summer in the Russian waters of the Caspian Sea.
Based on the geological exploration of previous years, as a result of which ores deposits were discovered, the entire amount of drilling work planned for 2015 was carried out.
shippers rated this technology as modern and convenient.
in a short time of field exit, the exercises were of high quality.	also , major ravshan dushabaev was marked by the commander as the best .	0,55
only one opportunity is available for each stage.	passage of each stage is allowed only once .	0,55
at the meeting, the minister answered the questions of interest of the Bolashakovites, "and also determined the importance of the activities of the holders of the presidential scholarship to implement the national idea of ​ ​" Eternal Country "and maintain the content of positions.
when choosing literary works, special attention was paid to their literary and artistic side, as well as attention to the event field of works, clarity of design and writing.
love for the homeland - knowledge of the state language.
materials, collections, textbooks, articles and notes on this conference will also be developed. this event differs by its scale and importance in the integration of traditional cultures and assists the cultural development of the whole world .
The clergyman also supplemented the novel of the Bogdasars that today traditional religions should be helped to find their place, attracting young people to their work.
According to him, in the near future, these posts should appear on the border of Kazakhstan, bordering the Russian Federation and Kyrgyzstan.
prior to this, the export of precious stones was carried out under a special license and issued by authorized bodies of the member states of the union.
today, the company has launched a new project on potato cultivation.	the first object was  biokorm " llp .
Kazakhmys ensures stable extraction of ores and production of metals.
according to him, over the past four years alone, 19 such treaties have been reached.
Kyzylorda altair of Akhmetov with akims of Kyzylorda region and heads of departments of economy, finance and education; heads of education departments responsible for the provision of textbooks; Transport service providers contracted; conducts an extended collection with the parent community.
It was said that no oak tree can have roots.
In turn, the chairman of the committee on the state structure of the Great State Khural (Parliament) of Mongolia noted that the creative work of Agypar Bakay fully characterizes the difficult and diverse activities of the head of state.
a resolution will be adopted following the conference.
without raw materials, ferrous or non-ferrous metallurgy does not develop.
In connection with the wave of terrorist attacks that occurred in many countries of the world, Tokayev noted the particular relevance of the leadership of Kazakhstan to create a single global network to counter international terrorism and extremism under the leadership of the UN. due to the wave of terrorist attacks around the world tokayev highlighted the extreme urgency of the elbasy initiative to establish a unified global network to counter international terrorism and extremism .
The Kazakh diplomat supported the idea of the summit and expressed the readiness of our country to continue cooperation in this area against extremism and terrorism.
Foreign specialists who have arrived in Kazakhstan will be able to self-employ within 3 months on the basis of a certificate of qualification compliance.
According to the expert, the Mangistau region has a very important transit transport potential.
firstly, the development of the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises.
It is noted that the board meeting discussed the implementation of the Roadmap for the joint use of the Baikonur complex in 2014-2016.
therefore, the training of specialists covered a wide range of disciplines.
M. Beketayev instructed the judicial and executive authorities of the region to study in detail the issue related to this issue.
Considering that a healthy nation will be competitive, the head of state called the development of the mass sports movement one of the strategic directions of state policy and set as his goal to attract 30% of the population of the republic to physical culture and sports by 2020, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
Among them are 12 thousand ice palaces and an ice arena for 3 thousand people.
Since the introduction of this initiative, the first steps have been taken.
In addition, by the decision of the board, citizens will be given the opportunity to issue their baggage as a transfer when switching to an international passport.
The course of use of collective rapid reaction forces in the territory of collective security of military contingents and special forces developed during the exercises.
The event was attended by judges of the Supreme Court and staff.
the latter is aimed at equal access to educational activities.
Participation in the competition is provided by the billiard conference, the sports committee of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Federation of Billiard Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of the East Kazakhstan Akimat.
It was decided to draw attention to the appeals of postmen and analyze their daily distances, provide postmen with bicycles in rural settlements.
they can be obtained at the CES and Altel departments.
skydiving.
In addition, from the agenda there were no issues of full provision of the domestic market with blue fuel.
Since the beginning of the year, the regional chamber of entrepreneurs received complaints about various issues from 233 businessmen, 64 of which were resolved in favor of citizens.
greenhouse gas waste decreases over time.
this control is carried out on the basis of project management rules.
modern terrorism now involves cross-border organized crime.
it's like a person with character.
during the climate agreement, the global organization will take new measures to reduce greenhouse gas residues.	within the framework of the new agreement on climate change the global community would adopt new obligations on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions .	0,55
today, the third grade of wheat on the Paris Exchange costs about $165, and on the Chicago exchange - about $170.
holding enterprises own a large network of credit products.
At the beginning of the year, a plan of measures to support industrial enterprises was developed, which includes measures to support backbone enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises.
In honor of the 20th anniversary of kha, the work of 20 children was marked with diplomas and gifts.
Within the framework of the signed memorandum, the national university will contribute to the development of the potential of medical workers in the Zhambyl region, it is planned to introduce distance learning and telemedicine, and invite world-class foreign experts.
being a founder is an honorary and honorary profession, "said V. Petrov.
hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver arising from a viral infection.
It is necessary to prove that we can take advantage of the benefits.
Over the 6 months of 2015, sales of travel documents by electronic means increased by more than 2 times and amounted to 2.6 million travel documents compared to the same period last year.
In accordance with the requirements of crirsco, an association of kazrc of an independent national organization for the provision of reports on resources and reserves, whose activities unite organizations related to subsoil use, is currently being created.
carriers ready to meet this condition will be able to take advantage of these benefits within a month.
it is a higher technical school in Kokshetau and Aktobe Polytechnic College.
among them are representatives of four regional commands, as well as military personnel of all types and branches of the army.
The purpose of kha is to present various ethnic religious groups.
During the conversation, positive dynamics of the comprehensive strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China was noted.
including on issues of the local police service, on the public service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on mutual assistance in criminal cases, etc.
The length of 1 thousand 282 km.
because we knew what problems they were facing.
in the future, the direction of container trains will develop, which will be sent from Turkey to Europe by transit through Kazakhstan to the countries members of the coordinating committee.
it is expected that a small share of the company will be sold.
their people are in different countries of the world.
also in the region there is a lot of work on the construction of roads.
As the head of state noted, today both in the country and in the world the number of elderly people is growing, which is why the number of employees is decreasing, respectively, the amount of pension contributions.
1 billion 62 million dollars are allocated for interregional and personal development programs.
He noted the high level of organization of EXPO-2015 exhibition and the great interest in Kazakhstan complex on the part of exhibition participants and guests.
in general, it was recommended to recognize the need to examine proposals aimed at improving the activities of the assembly and to develop the concept of the bill "On Amendments and Additions to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. "
such an indicator is not indicated everywhere.
we must attract them as much as we can.
the newly built solar power plant is capable of producing 73.18 million kW * h of electricity per year.
If we talk about the experience of Germany and Japan, then in the early stages they also did not establish strict discipline.
In addition, representatives of the department note that the pensions of citizens who have not survived to retirement age will be distributed to future pensioners who are entitled to receive pension payments.
at the republican level, the team is sent to the prosecutor's office of the Kyzylorda region.
Another 4 types of public services, in particular, state age benefits, basic pensions, social benefits for job loss and child care, are provided through the e-government portal.
everyone can take part in the duathlon.
now we are faced with the task of becoming one of the fifty competitive countries and implementing the priorities of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
Following the results of the Council of Defense Ministers, documents submitted by the heads of delegations were signed and approved.
In North Kazakhstan region there is a change of Kazakhs in schools.
these changes will take effect on January 1, 2017.
We cannot use effective ways, because the exhibition can be diverse, "he said.
this is the third action of this nature, which takes place in Tehran.
representatives of the creative intelligentsia agreed that it is necessary to strengthen the work on popularization of Russian literature, writing and suppression of works of a high artistic level, wide involvement of Kazakhstanis in the hordes of culture and art in general.
influenza is a viral infection that mainly affects the nose, food, upper respiratory tract, sometimes lungs.
the latter is especially relevant for poultry and pork meat, as the union plans to provide it entirely through its own production of these types of food.
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-May last year increased by 4.9% and amounted to 8 thousand 530 people.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that this facility is a unique enterprise for our region.
Under the President of Kazakhstan, the republican headquarters will work.
construction of production facilities has been completed.
artists are looking forward to the first meetings with Kazakhstani spectators.
During the event, the head of Kazkosmos discussed the prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the space sector with the leadership of the space agency of the United Arab Emirate
most of them were translated into another language and reprinted.
The question was raised before the management of the akimat and the airport.
During the event, the head of state noted the recently honored veterans of the Great Patriotic War in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
per capita funding is planned to be introduced in 126 pilot schools.
in these places, children can not only learn a certain art, but also develop their professional skills, which they choose in the future.
therefore, we need to consider all issues, from the construction periods to the reception of guests.
this, in turn, contributes to the strength of air traffic.
In accordance with the new provision, young people who have graduated from the 7th grade of general education schools and received a certificate of basic secondary education can enter the Zhas Ulan school, if by this time children who have graduated from the 9th grade have come to them.
"Office control" means the exercise of control in an appropriate form, for example without access to a public institution. off-site control means control without visiting the object - i mean a government department .
The name of the concert is aimed at showing traditional music that has developed in rural areas in the city.
As part of the industrialization program in the region, work is underway.	the local authorities started to build an industrial zone a few kilometers from aktobe .	0,56
Recall that following the meeting in the capital, the Foreign Ministers approved the draft statement of the heads of state of the CIS in connection with the 70th anniversary of the creation of the UN, as well as the draft statement on the fight against international terrorism, the appeal of the heads of state of the CIS to the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster and a number of other documents.	in addition , the foreign ministers approved a draft statement of heads of states on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the un , declaration of the cis heads of states on international terrorism , as well as the treatment of cis heads of states in connection with the 30th anniversary of the chernobyl accident .	0,56
A delegation of the People's Republic of China reportedly visited the north-Kazakhstan region. during the official meeting governor 's office of north kazakhstan region and administration of borough tala mongolian autonomous region of china signed a memorandum for the supply of grain and agricultural products and increase of trade turnover , " the message reads .
today, the term of this service has been reduced to 6 days.
legalization of property and capital is beneficial both for citizens of the country and for the economy of Kazakhstan.
However, last year, in the pilot mode, we exempted citizens of 10 countries from visa requirements, who, on the one hand, showed the greatest investment activity in Kazakhstan.
The press conference will be attended by the deputy chairman of the committee for the protection of children's rights of the Ministry of Education and Science, the deputy head of the health service department of the administrative police committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs Khalil Babaliyev and the chief expert of the committee for the protection of children's rights of the Ministry of Education and Science.
It is worth noting that he took part in the opening of a mosque in the village of Zhanteke.
in higher schools and institutions of higher education - the introduction of English language education in the education system.
The enterprise does not use any sediments and impurities.
majoring in customs at the new University of Economics, and the eldest of the boys this year graduated from 11 classes and entered the specialty of financier.
He also noted that the methods of management of the united Arab emirate noted by the author are similar to Kazakh dances.
Issues of interaction in military-patriotic education of young people on the example of the feat of war veterans were also discussed
Peter Burian, who took office as the special representative of the European Union for Central Asia, noted that he could not allow all opportunities for cooperation with the countries of Central Asia.
You once again proved that there is no important task for you that exceeds the well-being of citizens, "the letter says.
in order to ensure the competitiveness of the state apparatus and the admission of professionals to the public service.
this is the first direction, the second is lending through funds.
and the issue that has been resolved, we keep in check.
The Association of Emergency Medical Organizations and the Lithuanian Society of Emergency Medicine thanked the Kazakh team for their motivation and cooperation in organizing the event.
jointly performs the assigned combat training missions, reflecting the attacks of the conditional enemy according to the scenario of the units and units of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and Russia.
also in the Urdzhar region there are free sowing areas necessary to provide a poultry farm with a feed base.
In addition, modern packaging technologies have been created.
During the visit, a meeting is also planned with the heads of agencies for public service and anti-corruption affairs, a two-day training "political communications" at the school of political management at the Nұr Otan party.
According to A. Myrzabayev, the idea of ​ ​ helping the seriously ill came to him in his student years.
This year it was decided to build a large complex here, that is, in the future a museum will be located here within the framework of the open sky, "he shared.
During the enlarged session chaired by the Head of State, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that it is always necessary to endure anything. in these difficult circumstances , the logic of the law of the economy needs more drastic measures than the existing monetary policy .
the majority of merchandise products were produced by the following companies.
Akim also touched upon the formation of a healthy lifestyle and sports in the city.
under this project, it is planned to purchase material and technical equipment: a refrigerator, a meat processing plant, in particular, sausages, equipment for the production of meat in pockets.
The document was developed in order to improve the pension provision of citizens by strengthening the responsibility of the state, employee and employer for guaranteeing the normal amount of pension payments, as well as ensuring the long-term financial stability of the pension system of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the action rice was printed in the traditional Uzbek way.
This year we fixed and corrected these errors.
the general session of the forum will then commence.
crews of MiG-31 fighters, 2 mi-17 helicopters and 3 t-2000 aircraft, as well as units, air defense units and air force crews were involved in the sudden inspection.
in addition, the parties agreed in the near future to conclude an agreement on visa-free trips of citizens of the two countries.
soldiers of Kazakhstan and China are working on joint conditional military operations to eliminate an illegal armed formation.
the plant is fully equipped with the necessary devices and has enough highly qualified personnel.
Of the 26 people, 6 people were employed, "the report said.
The creation of a business incubator began with the following.	it provides office jobs and support at the stage of the opening own business .	0,56
three most important features appear in the first row.	there were three key features at the fore .	0,56
today, many enterprises receive assistance.	this campaign is being held for 8 years in a row .	0,56
this will significantly improve the quality of life of the population.	it will improve the life quality of the population .	0,56
The situation here, according to German colleagues, is very good.	conditions here are very good , german experts say .	0,56
according to him, this is not a fixed rate.	trading volume has amounted to 115 million dollars .	0,56
reducing subsidies and costs.	we decided to cut spending and subsidies .	0,56
Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Turkey.	it is expected the heads of states to sum up the agreements of the recent summits and identify new challenges .	0,56
According to experts, such results can be achieved thanks to innovative technologies of cobalt nickel ores patented in Kazakhstan.	according to specialists , such results will be achieved thanks to the innovative technology - poor oxidized cobalt-nickel ores .	0,56
n. abdibekov amt "together with Vizhay Mahadeva launched envelopes and controlled the technological process of the primary ingot.
the bill is included in the agenda of the plenary session of the Senate of Parliament.
the meeting was held in an atmosphere of mutual understanding and constructive dialogue.
this is confidence that his country will have a great future, "said N. Nazarbayev.
this indicates the active and consistent work of the secretariat of Turkic-speaking countries, carried out on the basis of close cooperation, equality and solidarity, "said the head of the foreign ministry of Kazakhstan erlan Idris.
as a result, the company, which produced products only in Russia, expanded the foreign market and began to produce its products in the CIS and European countries.
in the final of the European Games 2015, in the weight category up to 57 kg, the Portuguese won the Braganka and showed a successful game.
In January-September 2015, wholesale trade amounted to KZT20199.8 million or decreased by 11.6% compared to the same period last year.
participants in the motor race were met at the house of creativity of schoolchildren, it was there that the ceremony of awarding the patriotic flag took place.
In addition, the Governor of the region visited secondary school No. 187, where he got acquainted with the project of installing a monument to Mustafa Chokai.
legislation is aimed at bringing into line with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries."
The head of state noted that the purpose and orientation of the new UN document fully coincides with the priorities of Kazakhstan.
Due to the same innovation, the raw darya area also does not matter.
the next meeting will be held with the deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - the head of the kha secretariat.
Currently, contractual training is underway in accordance with market demand.
Of course, this will strengthen the health of residents of the Taushuk region, increase the interest of young people in sports and physical culture, "said Governor of the region Alik Aydarbayev.
fire stations provide fire protection for 7 settlements belonging to the forest belt located on the territory of the 3rd rural district (cheerful - Podolsky s., Ananyevsky s., large oak tree with., Labor s., Kovalevka, p. Barvinovka, p. Amanzhol) protects people with a population of more than 3 thousand 500.
more than 50 types of products will be presented to Almaty residents.
Also, in order to prevent three-shift schools, a utility building with 180 seats in the village of Novik, Talgar district, was commissioned at the beginning of the year.
the volume of overhauls decreased by 51.8%, current repairs decreased by 4.1%. volumes of major overhaul declined by 51.8 % and current repairs - by 4.1 % .
In this regard, the officers noted that every Kazakhstani knows and respects this special day.
textbooks are being delivered to districts and cities of Karaganda region.
there were no comments from the leadership of the exercise and foreign guests.
He also drew the attention of the audience to the fact that respect for human rights directly affects the security and well-being of residents of countries around the world.
prove that the area of the painted arrow is equal to the area of the right triangle.
they are worthy representatives of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
The main goal is to inspire residents and guests of the region, revive the forgotten, update our history and give children a festive mood and memory.
He noted that the region is ready for the heating season.
unfortunately, terrorist threats were increasing worldwide.
The establishment of an international fund for low-enriched uranium within the framework of magatry will allow Member States to guarantee access to nuclear fuel without violating their sovereign rights to develop private peaceful nuclear energy programmes and without violating the provisions of the magate decree and the nuclear non-proliferation agreement.
As A.Sekeshev noted, Kazakhstan is preparing to hold expo-2017 in the capital, close ties and long-term relations with the EU will contribute to its successful implementation.
sculptures were recognized during charity events.
Improving anti-corruption legislation in line with international requirements is of particular importance in effectively countering corruption.
in this direction, we must build on the rich historical experience of our statehood.
A festive table with traditional national dishes was set up for the guests of the event, as well as memorable gifts to each family.
and the legal authority for the participation of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs in support of the local public-private partnership project.
in order for Kazakhstani enterprises to produce high-quality, competitive products, their modernization and reorientation are necessary.
in some areas we have not been able to realize our vision.
Logistics centres are working successfully.
The Vice Speaker noted that the Ambassador played a special role in strengthening cooperation between the dynamically developing Kazakh and Polish states.
at the same time, problems should be noted in the field of resolving oil residues in oil tanks, tax accounting for the turnover of oil and oil products. in this light , there are some difficulties .
It should be noted that the industrial zone will become the main platform for new manufacturing facilities.
in addition, the cassation level now performs only supervisory functions, that is, reviews decisions of lower courts.
The delegation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was headed by the Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - the head of the kha secretariat.
it also has a positive impact on job growth.
oil supplied for export by state order and outside the eurozone.
A. Sekeshev and B. Saparbayev discussed the pace of implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization and the program "Nұrly zhol."
the economy has become more powerful and open.
Today, the responsibility for imprisonment is 26.2%, previously this figure was 37.7%, "said a representative of the Supreme Court.
Therefore, in other sports, our army athletes have achieved new successes and will receive high awards.
It should be noted that currently the Committee of Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan has concluded a memorandum of cooperation with 25 leading universities of the country, which will be studied in 43 universities of the country in the specialty "standardization, certification and metrology."
use of the site and invitation to participate in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
I hope you will provide a list of projects as soon as possible so that we can review them and begin to implement them. we are waiting for you to give us a list of projects .
soldiers of the Afghan war died and were remembered in battle.
impurities and from inside are not allowed to spend the night.
to change the details, etc. - 1,743 documents were adopted, 5,121 citizens were advised.
in his statement a. Musinov noted Kazakhstan's position to support the UN reform initiative of the JSC, as well as the readiness of Africans to continue to provide financial and other necessary assistance to the African continent and against the ebola epidemic, which claimed thousands of lives.
the color of the flag symbolized peace and unity, the image of the eagle arose due to the desire of sovereign Kazakhstan to the top of world civilization.
doping not only harms the health of athletes, but also creates clean competition.
As A. Tortayev noted, the next important step facing both sides is to ensure the completeness of the implementation of what is stated in this law.
at the Almaty airport, the winners were met by members of public sports, garden and student youth.
The event will be a joint presentation of brands in the light industry.
The head of state drew attention to the need to further develop and preserve the traditional culture and spiritual value of the country.
in particular, it provides for the guarantee of equity deposits, financing of projects by second-level banks, the construction of a framework of a residential building at the expense of the developer's own funds.
In the first half of the year, more than 5 thousand new jobs were created.
they perform in the most prestigious cultural institutions in the world.
10 works in Kazakh and 10 Russian languages, "said the organizer of the competition, managing director for Internet projects of Kazkontent JSC during the awarding of the gendos of the stockings.
in Aktobe they were met by representatives of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region and guests met with representatives of the Republican Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Chairman of the Committee of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Valery Viktorovich Petrov.
The Chinese Garden notes the visit of N. Nazarbayev as one of the important events in the light of the implementation of the agreements and the agreements reached. the chinese media say the visit of nursultan nazarbayev as one of the most significant and important events , taking into account the number of signed agreements and contracts , the amount of contracts that were signed during the visit .
The WTO should be afraid of those industries that are now starting their business.
As noted, Minister of Education and Science A. Sarinzhipov was convinced of the readiness of the coordination headquarters for national testing.
this was discussed today.
minimum interest rate.
In turn, the head of the Department of Youth Policy of Astana noted that this event is aimed at promoting the history of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, revealing the identity of prominent Kazakh citizens and educating patriotism of youth.
A comprehensive plan to provide a new form of emergency medical care will meet the high standards of the capital of Kazakhstan.
Along with the strengthening of this block, it is planned to create a trading company that will trade in kazatomprom products, as well as the largest international uranium companies.
Therefore, until August 28, 725 services were provided in our center.
On the main theme of the seminar, issues on the compilation of switches, signalling and communication tools were discussed, two round tables on the agenda were held.
In this regard, the Ministers attach great importance to the 25th anniversary of the CIS.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 149 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 73.6 billion as of 22.07.2015. Tenge, including for the legalization of money - 2.9 billion. Tenge with payment to the budget of 28.9 billion Tenge.
As for the legalization of property or money located in Kazakhstan, it is enough to submit the necessary documents to the state revenue authorities.
this is a problem related to the growth of our national well-being.
According to him, a consultative and advisory council of non-governmental organizations operates under the committee for the protection of children's rights.
the number of criminal offenses of moderate severity decreased by only 2.6%.
The opening ceremony was attended by the rector of the Academy of Public Administration of the Abdrasilov Bolatbek, the head of the department of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat daeshov, the director of the department of the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for public service and anti-corruption.
due to the gradual exhaustion of water resources, the construction of geothermal stations using the heat of volcanoes began in this country.
32 boxes were held on the main square of China, 15 of them - Chinese military, conducting parades.
To ensure the principle of prioritization of the application of interstate standards, the commission conducts systematic work on the preparation and implementation of programs.
unmanned aerial vehicles were especially impressed when conducting aerial reconnaissance.
Mr. Ferho told the meeting about the changes in the sphere of pension payments and social protection.
the introduction of the principle of extended producer responsibility, according to the minister, covers part of the costs of assembling, recycling and processing waste from automobile production.
textbooks are currently at the development level, and participating countries are proposing to revise their proposals and programming.
The Family Education Institute regularly organizes parent conferences, which naturally improve parents' relations with children.
In 2015, all regions of Kazakhstan received a methodology for teachers in education departments, a total of 26 directions in the state and Russian languages, "he said.
selection of flight crews began a month ago.
that is, citizens who were previously prosecuted for crimes of any sexual orientation cannot work with children.
The director of the institution Elena Konstantinovna wished our delegation good luck, wished them to return from the upcoming competitions and gave memorable gifts to children athletes.
The chairman of the Kazakh civil alliance became the moderator of the event held by Nurlan Erimbetov, the party said.
According to these indicators, the region is among the countries.
the task of the executive branch is to create conditions for the effective work of entrepreneurs.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, in the village of Kamystybas, Ostrovsky district, the house of culture for 150 places was commissioned.
The application committee of Kazakhstan is headed by Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
raw materials for pipes manufacture are polyethylene granules.
Besides, a. Tuleshev noted that foreign historians were invited to leading Kazakh universities to give lectures to undergraduates and doctoral students.
As part of the festival, visitors tried products.
According to the press service of the Center for International Programs, the event was organized on German Unity Day, which is of great importance for the German people.
the road is laid with cement concrete coating according to the indications of I technical degrees.
During that session, the issue of modernizing legislation so that its objectives coincided with social modernization was raised.
We expect the official visit of the leadership of the European Union to the capital to sign this historic document.
Among the participants of the competition are our fellow countryman, international master of sports Nursultan Koldeev.
I received a high award, but I remained the same month, I do not change, I just do my job and will work to improve the space industry of our country, "he said.
Prior to the entry into force of the technical regulations, the type of vehicles of categories n3, o3 and o4 issued in the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation in accordance with national legislation provides for direct operation in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the train runs three times a week and consists of five coupon cars and one holy car.
energy conservation and energy efficiency.
Recently, despite economic difficulties, we have been putting up such a monument.
The ribbon at the opening of the kindergarten was handed over to the chairman of the council of rural elders nasrulla Sarsengaliyev and the governor of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev.
The Eurasian Economic Union, of which Kazakhstan is a member, has not been neglected.
We are pleased that this event shows its results.
because this is a platform that brings people closer to each other.
this item was implemented thanks to stable work on the results of the "Local Content Agency," which conducts a number of work on the development of domestic products.
during the meeting. Nuryshev drew special attention to the quality education of Kazakh youth, compliance with local legislative norms, respect for Chinese culture and traditions.
this experience was highly appreciated by the expert.
taking into account the agreement within the EAEU, Kazakhstan should prevent the possibility of importing into the territory of other EAEU states and ensure the administration of goods imported into Kazakhstan at lower duties.
The national flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a rectangular blue cloth with an image in the center of the ray sun, under it a soaring eagle.
the event continued with a concert program developed by the best creative groups in the region.
in fact, this can be called an ice palace.
2 thousand 480 citizens got jobs without state support.
we want to announce such a competition.
at their experimental sites - in the Karaulobinsky rural district - new varieties of rice are being developed.
The strength and strength of shanyrak, as well as its attachment to the reliability of all ancestors, depends on the well-being of every citizen in Kazakhstan.
today at 16:00 the official opening of the championship will take place.
During this time, all work here will be completed, "said the head of the region, Erik Sultanov.
Recall that the road with a special lane has been operating along Abay Avenue since June 15 of this year.
we are making changes to budget legislation and natural monopolies, "said A. Rau.
successfully developed programs "shyga," "kulan," "altyn asyk," aimed at the development of animal husbandry.
speaking at the press conference, K. Massimov recalled that Kazakhstan is completing its chairmanship in friendship.
in addition to subjects, Kazakh literature is introduced in an additional form, the history of Kazakhstan and geography are conducted in the Kazakh language, which does not depend on the language in which he studies.
he also spoke about the stage of passing the tests.
Kazakhstan adopted the concept of migration to the green economy, and the Kazakhstan-2050 program was also adopted.
Telephone conversation initiated by the Office of the UN Secretary General
musical masterpieces are performed by the chamber orchestra of the Astana Opera Theater under the direction of the Honored Figure of the Republic of Kazakhstan Maestro Mukhitdinov.
speakers noted that the development of the regional economy, integration within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization poses new challenges for the country to protect and realize national interests in various areas.
the participants tried very hard, since the winners have a special status, that is, the opportunity to demonstrate the Kazakh armed forces at the first military sports games of the friendly army of the CIS member states.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of Zhambyl region, during this visit, the expedition participants need to give a scientific assessment of ancient monuments and take into account new historical places.
the pilot project identified the stepnogorsk city area, which is promising for conducting appropriate procedures for determining a new place.
Currently, about 40 countries of the world are interested in creating a free trade zone with eo.
we are ready to help the Syrian people, who are now experiencing difficulties, "said the Secretary of State.
today this mosque is a historical value.
the question was now one of uniform use of legislation.
The conference participants noted the preservation of the constitutional order and socio-political stability of Kazakhstan.
its main goal is to share the experience of military personnel of countries of joint training and training.
people's compasitor, poet Madi Bapievich lived there.
As the main partner at the level of interstate cooperation with Kazakhstan, the EU considers the use of Kazakhstan's potential in the mint and horizon 2020 program.
it should also monitor the level of inflation, provide the population with socially important goods, and provide assistance to socially vulnerable segments of the population.
The grand opening of this site took place in the village of Oktyabrskoye on the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Red Banner Bauxite Mining Department of the White Branch "Kazakhstan Aluminum," which is part of the Eurasian group.
We decided that from September 1, 2015, all our units will publish all vacancies on the ministry's website in advance so that anyone can come to the public service.
According to the report, as of June 30, 2015, according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge from the beginning of the legalization campaign.
At the Olympics in the capital of Azerbaijan in Baku, about 300 schoolchildren from 75 countries studied.
there are no cases where other countries negotiate with each other and come to an end. in other countries there are no such conditions to debate with each other .
the first part of the film is devoted to close relations between Armenians and Kypchaks, in which there are concepts that call the god Kypchak.
ekkdb experts noted that the Mayor's Office of the city adopted the right approaches to the modernization and development of the transport complex of the capital.
In the near future, the winner of the competition "Slavic Market 2015" plans to enter the mass media market of the CIS countries.
Thus, there is a need to increase investment in enterprise assets, and the investment program will be profitable not only at the expense of tariff profits, but also at the expense of budget and credit funds.
thanks to this channel, we share about 80 more states.
According to the organizers, the burning session is carried out with the aim of preventing road traffic injuries of children, creating zero tolerance for violation of traffic rules among children and adolescents.
today's training competitions have provided the power of our pilots.
The company has created more than 15 different types of products.
the average amount of copper in the ore composition was 1.51%.
As baktiyar Kozhakhmetov noted in his speech, archipological successes and historical monuments will tell about the relations of different peoples in the Eurasian space.
more than 50 vacancies will be presented at the event.
In order to eliminate three-shift schools in the village of Atameken, the oil region, a 1,200-seat secondary school is being built.
According to him, this will allow representatives of state control bodies to improve the work of budget program administrators, give them appropriate advice in a timely and high-quality manner, identify and prevent gaps, quickly introduce innovations in the activities of financial management and control.
I have a family, and the second wealth is the housing you gave today.
before each school year, school uniforms become a topical topic.
images and inscriptions on the front and back of coins are embossed.
This year, more than 100 Almaty commodity producers took part in the regional competition.
expansion works were completed on two boiler units, the rest of the equipment was regularly repaired.
272 sets of medals in 21 sports were played at the competition.
manufacturing shows steady growth of 0.5%.
According to the fund, the poultry farm intends to provide most of the Kazakhstan market with its products in the future.
By the end of the year, the cost amounted to 28 billion tenge. In addition, 27 projects, 1734 new jobs will be created.
this allowed the educational institution to become a university with a full educational program.
At the end of the conference, participants plan to develop a number of proposals for the practical implementation of the proposals made during the event.
In June of this year, the world of Kazakhstan held a conference with potential creditors.
one-time assistance for the birth of a child and social assistance until the child reaches the age of one year.
members of the infrastructure and logistics subcommittee decided to begin work on the electronic certification of the eeo transport corridor.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Commercialization of the Results of Scientific and (or) Scientific and Technical Activities," aimed at bringing legislation into line with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Commercialization of the Results of Scientific and (or) Scientific and Technical Activities";
Companies producing sixty kokshetau, "Kazakhaltyn," white, district town, produced 14 tons of gold with a growth of 1.7 times.
Amina grew up among historical personalities from her youth.
it is located in the village of Soldybastau, Talgar district, Almaty region.
If in 2009 there were 3 points of bicycle rental, now there are 23 of them.
and show their professional knowledge and combat effectiveness.
it is fully prepared in accordance with the policies of the World Health Organization.
The goal of the center is to introduce crafts and new technologies and train personnel.
During the nationwide teleconference with the participation of the head of state, the mode of operation of trains at this facility was introduced.
as an example, the head of a public association cited the Azerbaijani experience.
The President of Kazakhstan voiced the idea of ​ ​ creating the center during the general debate at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly.
The event was also attended by White House officials and authoritative garden journalists, such as the Washington Post, Foreign Policy and National Public Radio.
Governor of Akmola Sergey Kulagin congratulated medical workers in Kokshetau.
the bill also proposes to improve the procedure for employers to attract foreign labor.
It is noted that the terms of financing were approved by Government Resolution No. 271 of April 23, 2015.
In this regard, we signed a memorandum with the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region.
Each day will be presented a separate military-applied sport, a complex martial arts tournament, a paramilitary cross and air rifle shooting.
To date, the station has undergone overhaul of one boiler unit and the ongoing repair of three boilers has been completed.
We know the Netherlands through airbases and boings.
fire training classes were held in conditions as close as possible to combat.
the manufacturer of the portal provides its own technologies, and the manufacturer of the product finds them if necessary.
the devaluation of the Russian ruble created additional difficulties for the domestic food industry and agricultural producers.
for every thousand men there are 1070 women.
This year, we plan to bring the varieties of karakulabi and raw darya to the high-class elite variety and distribute them to farms for free.
the next direction is the city of temirtau.
The housing area of each house is 83.6 square meters.
The picture is dedicated to the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
The purpose of licensing is not to limit the car market, but to create conditions for protecting consumers from unscrupulous suppliers of automobile vehicles, as well as to ensure high quality standards in the field of car sales and service in Kazakhstan, guaranteed only by official representatives of manufacturers.
It is worth noting that the system of remuneration of civil servants and law enforcement agencies and the judicial system through a factor score will be further studied and a decision will be made regarding it.
According to the Governor of the region, the agro-industrial complex should support it and contribute to growth, taking into account the difficulties in other sectors of the country's economy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also touched upon the main issues that he raised.
most of the appeals were received on alimony.
Therefore, we can say that the big social issue will be resolved, "said the Governor of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region.
In addition, according to the minister, the bill until 2020 provides for the provision of outpatient care to the self-employed population at the expense of the republican budget.
a. Karachev thanked the faculty of the Institute of Diplomacy for their great contribution to the training of diplomatic personnel of a systemic nature, working on the principles of continuity and in-depth professional orientation.
and in the usual competition there were two dimensions - the size of the bonus with sheep and the amount of costs for the social development of the region.
The discussions were aimed at providing special proposals and initiatives to assess the risks associated with the proliferation of nuclear technologies and the reduction of nuclear arsenals.
local executive bodies of the region carry out constant work on economic entities and raising prices.
these works are collected in one capsule.
the congratulation notes that in the glorious history of the karmet plant and all domestic metallurgy, this event is an important milestone and is still a solid pillar of industry.
this will allow domestic enterprises to enter foreign markets. "
The Chairman of the Senate noted that on the basis of five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state, Kazakhstan is on the verge of fundamental changes.
Within the framework of the fair, a meeting of representatives of business circles of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation was held.
the panel analyzed in detail the causes and circumstances that negatively affect the criminal situation and encourage the commission of offenses, proposed measures to prevent embezzlement.
now there is a whole city.
For the first time, the head of state publicly signed a number of these laws, including a new civil procedure code.	most part of the laws passed by the parliament for the implementation of the national plan enters into force since january 1 , 2016 .	0,57
each sowing campaign is a time when farmers come and turn to the state for help.	the time when the farmers were supported by the state has gone .	0,57
One of the main tasks of the shu is to work together to combat terrorist bases, "he said. Yermekbaev.
in that context, it was important to mobilize civil society and the State to achieve maximum results.
A distinctive feature of this portal is that it is controlled by specialists and experts who are ready to provide the necessary additional services for combining scientific teams with production, the general director of the center for commercialization of damir egizbayev technologies reports.
council participants will discuss the content of programs and the preparation of textbooks of general Turkic history (period until the 15th century and period from 15 to 21 centuries), a number of questions on geography and literature.
Today, Kazakhstan's economy is thriving as a successfully developed country, all this due to your high thinking and advanced approach to planning tasks that must be completed. today , kazakhstan is developing a successful economy , and it 's so , thanks to your efforts , planning and the approach .
The national flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a rectangular blue cloth with an image in the center of the ray sun, under it a soaring eagle.
In addition, meetings with deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and retreats in the Governor's Office of Astana and public service centers are planned.
proposed preferential tariff conditions will allow entering new markets of Indian and Persian Gulf of Kazakhstan exports.
According to the special representative, the UN Secretary General will announce at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly a plan of action aimed at preventing violent ectremism.
for the first time entering public services apply for lower positions: experts, specialists.
According to him, updating the terminology fund with new terms will require a revision of linguistic historical values, as well as special work on terminology and terminology.
it is aimed at actively providing targeted assistance.
today, two applicants will hold the last presentation of the city.
every major religion had to face this threat, and we must all fight this evil together.
In this regard, the Vice Minister recalled that everyone should be responsible for their field and reduce energy consumption in each industry.
there you can not only find out where the production in the region is located, but also determine which projects are being implemented in the region.
As the student noted, the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the deputy corps of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs "Atameken" and other business communities is working to improve the legislative framework in the field of rational use of natural capital.
It is planned that the first part of the population will be inhabited in the second half of September this year.
now the customer can find all the necessary information without entering other resources to clarify the place of their order or departure by entering the track number on our website or service on a mobile phone.
families with children are assisted as a benefit.
If the main role of the assembly is to develop Kazakhstan's civic unity, patriotism, and the formation of a common culture of the people of Kazakhstan, then the task of strengthening society within the framework of common goals and tasks is added to these tasks, the Vice Minister said.
Cho Engchon Expo-2017 noted that Kazakhstan will not only ensure the success of politics and sectors of the economy, but also increase the status of the country in other areas.
consider the rectangle abcd, which is its axial section, which is a uniform lateral trapezoid.
Following the meeting, representatives of toll service plc expressed a desire to prepare the best proposals of world developers for the introduction of a paid system in Kazakhstan.
Thus, the establishment of the Mother's Council under the CCA doubles down on measures to create an enabling environment for the preservation of the family.
at the same time, certification opens up new prospects for the further career growth of military personnel ready for new more complex professional tasks.
these are the books of our modern writers and foreigners.
I hope that in the future we will be able to establish a long-term successful partnership in all sectors of the economy and the humanitarian sphere, "the Governor of the region concluded.
During the competition, Kazakh national games were shown, such as maiden, tenge, hanging, translation, kokpar, "the statement said.
apartment owners are citizens standing in line for housing.
In order to ensure the degree and capabilities of car owners of all cars, taking into account their needs, priority product segments were identified at the initial stage of work, the agency said.
if before each student chose his own clothes, now everyone will be given the same general requirement.
According to the Minister, Kazakhstan is contributing to the stabilization of global weather.
At the end of the conference, its participants came to the conclusion that when adopting new regulatory legal acts to combat corruption, it is necessary to make widespread use of the opportunities of the scientific environment of Kazakhstan in this area.
As a result of the support of the Head of State and the Government of Kazakhstan, all conditions have been created, "he said.
The budget allocated to livestock and poultry enterprises is increasing annually to reduce the cost of feed for livestock production.
Kazakhstan has always been a close and reliable neighbor of the Russian Federation, it remains.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan only assumes the costs of storing materials.
In addition, it is planned that the construction of a new school with 1,200 seats in the quarters of streets No. 26, No. 37, No. 38 and Hussein and Talal will be completed on September 1 and commissioned in the second quarter.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the German side.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that he highly appreciates the agreement signed today on the participation of Great Britain in EXPO-2017 and spoke about plans to create an international financial center "capital."
in Mangistau region, the volume of gross regional product per person ranks 4th in the republic. mangistau region is the fourth in terms of gross regional product per capita .
From September 6 to 12, the Asian Weightlifting Championship among men and women is held in Thailand.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, in order to provide political support to the Argentine government and attract leading Argentine companies to participate in EXPO-2017 r.Zhoshybayev held talks with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Argentina, the head of the state energy corporation fernando contribution and heads of a number of other companies.
In 2014, the museum entered the international museum community isom.
Yessimov's press conference was held in an active dialogue mode.
in addition, for the safety of the family, the teams of enterprises-institutions, it is necessary to take and install gas alarms.
The livestock development program developed by South Kazakhstan residents will become a source of employment in the countryside.
Following the meeting, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions on the further organization of the work of the republican commission for training personnel abroad.
And rice harvesting is in full swing.
there was no person indifferent to this proposal.
there should be no duality in writing and education.
To view the results, you must enter the individual code (s) of the tester and the individual identification number (IC) of the applicant.
It provides for the involvement of strategic (anchor) investors to form a single operator for the localization and development of road transport infrastructure, as indicated in 58 steps.
During the meeting, the head of state congratulated the Director General of the magate on signing an agreement on the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium in Kazakhstan.
the crews of the two countries went equally.
industrial zones have great potential.	1445 jobs have been created .	0,57
This important event will help to reduce youth unemployment.	as a result of work of the employment center of astana , the akimat employed 3 793 people .	0,57
the control system was only in registered letters and transfers.	kazakhstan was the first cis country implemented such project .	0,57
The orphanage has 164 children aged 5 to 18 years. here i felt the most positive , the warmest atmosphere .
this year, for the first time, we took part in the worldskills program in international work specialties. "
In the direction of the Kazakh mortgage company, agreements were signed on 58 objects with an area of ​ ​ 610.2 thousand square meters. m (10,684 apartments) in the amount of 95.5 billion tenge.
In total, 200 columns will be installed by the end of October.
qualified specialists are needed to achieve high results of kazatomprom.
there is an opportunity to train more than 150 people at the same time.
In addition to best practices, I understand a unique squad, and you always need to think deeply and ask yourself questions.
the lack of an Internet and an additional program does not affect it either.
According to him, four areas have been defined within the framework of the program.
after localizing the fire, the affected ship was towed to the shore.
After the official announcement of the opening of the session, the country's anthem was performed.
the parties reached approval of the protocol of the agreement on visa-free movement.
only through language is the culture and specificity of the generation transmitted.
the main work of the economy is the cultivation of potatoes and vegetables.
The Chairman of the Bulgarian National Assembly noted that Kazakhstan is a very important partner, especially in the field of economics, is interested in establishing a comprehensive, long-term, mutually beneficial partnership, in connection with which Bulgaria is ready to take an active part in the Expo 2017 exhibition, which will be held in the capital.
in general, any changes related to the modernization of society can be made.
In addition, an electronic fare payment system will improve the quality of public service, increase the transparency of financial flow and tax collection, reduce the time for passengers to travel to transport and identify "stowaways."
As Sh. Zhakupova noted, the efficiency of improving the judicial system in Kazakhstan determines the indicator that the country has raised over the past five years, having risen in this rating by 39 points.
According to the Permanent Representative of the European Union, the need and prospects for a policy of interreligious dialogue against the background of chronic conflicts, mass leaks of refugees and terrorist attacks are obvious.
I was in temirtau, where he grew up, used to work, was the secretary of the central party committee.
The bill provides for the following issues related to attracting foreign labor: liberalization of the procedure for attracting jobs by employers to foreign visitors for employment, the introduction of systemic measures aimed at meeting the needs of personnel in the economy by creating a free market for highly qualified foreign specialists.
Also, the employment center of the Mayor's Office of Astana employed 1,889 people.
for the performance of the part of radames in this performance, the Bulgarian tenor kamen chanev was invited, in the main role - the listener's favorite - the leading soloist of the Astana Opera Theater zhupar gabdullin.
The conference will be attended by Chairman of the Committee on Supervision in the Field of Education and Science Sayat Nusupov and Director of the Department of Preschool, Secondary Education, Information Technology Zhanyl Zhontaeva.
ceremonies for the opening of the operational gathering began with the laying of flowers at the Glory Memorial. the event has begun with a solemn wreath-laying ceremony at the memorial of glory .
this will improve the quality of life of patients, reduce disability.
a great desire was for the state.
In addition, obtaining public services electronically will help reduce corruption.
According to him, for this, meetings are held every six months with the participation of regional courts and the supreme court.
at the border, you can immediately check the documents, determine the handed over lots in songs and a veterinary certificate for products, "said the director general.
Abdikalikova met with representatives of the women's community, including deputies of the maslikhat, representatives of the business community, heads of educational and cultural institutions, representatives of public organizations.
as part of the taekwondo team, army athletes who have repeatedly glorified our country at prestigious international competitions.
the program carried out research in Akmola and Almaty region.
A. Weidler noted that the exhibition will have a positive impact on the arrival of technologies and strengthening the scientific base.
The event started in Karaganda, where servicemen and veterans of the Great Patriotic War took part.
and there were enough such obstacles in the way of the states that developed in the post-Soviet space, "the telegram says.
Guests and residents of the capital will be able to see the magical sounds of ancient percussion instruments, acrobatic dances, as well as Korean k-trap rebi, combined with jazz wind instruments.
Due to domestic conditions, the demand for Kazakhstan export products from major trading partners of Russia and China has sharply decreased. the demand for kazakh export products of our major trading partners of china and russia has been decreased in connection with the situation in these countries .
we did just that, "said the Minister of Finance.
The delegation included representatives of national companies, akims of a number of regions, aea "lead-east gates" and aea "taraz chemical park," as well as private companies.
the legendary wrestler has many achievements.
at the same time, the issue of competitiveness is not separated from the issue of specialization.
therefore, through the improvement of our constitution, every Kazakhstani family develops.
the main goal of the bill is to eliminate corruption in society by improving legislation in the field of combating corruption, protecting the rights and legitimate interests of individuals and legal entities.
At this event, about 500 servicemen competed for the main trophy of the tournament - the Cup of the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan - including 27 groups of men and 15 groups of women, the report said.
What results do you expect from this conference?
the grain terminal silo is raised, the installation of the equipment is completed.
Today the action was met by the city of Shymkent.
meritocracy procedures.
It was founded in 2013.
According to him, to date, about 500 items are stored in the collection.
under the chapel it is said that the fist stretched 43 kilometers.
the parties discussed the relationship between Kazakh-American disarmament.
As the deputy akim noted, these participants will be subject to administrative and criminal liability, which will be considered in terms of human life and health, as well as expenses for state interest and harm to it.
Non-compliance of financial monitoring entities with the requirements of legislation to combat the legalization of criminal proceeds and the financing of terrorism.
since its first days in office, the Shanghai process has been positioned as an open, balanced multilateral structure. from the first days the shanghai process is positioning itself as an open and balanced multilateral framework .
The Special Commissioner familiarized with the actions of Kazakhstan and the development of relations between our country and the African continent within the framework of international organizations.
In 2015, within the framework of the industrialization map, the completion of a project for the construction of a 45 MW wind power plant in the area of ​ ​ Ereimentau was ensured. we have completed construction of the yereimentau wind farm with capacity of 45 mw .
On Friday, we discussed preparations for the high Eurasian economic council at the level of heads of state. we discussed the agenda of the supreme council .
this opera sounds like a hymn to human feelings.
deputies visited the Shymkent oil refinery, got acquainted with the production activities of the enterprise, programs aimed at protecting the environment, as well as with the state project of modernization and reconstruction of the oil refinery.
As noted in the department, the work on establishing contacts with current and new social partners will continue.
this document takes into account the specific capabilities of Member States and provides for translation into electronic document flow.
By the way, we will send the results of the survey to Switzerland in April.
As a result, we now have a legislative basis, that is, a separate category of liquidated taxpayers, that is, those who do not pay value added tax, can be dissolved by attracting audit companies.
the sanatorium includes programs developed on the basis of the latest medical technologies and ways of effective application of the latest scientific achievements and natural factors.
Today is a very interesting event, and philanthropists such as Baurzhan ospanov are happy to take part in the development of children's creativity.	we are glad when talented people like baurzhan ospanov participate in the development of children 's literature .	0,58
During the meeting, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the national medical university.	within the framework of memorandum , the national university will develop the skills of health workers of zhambyl region .	0,58
nobody does this for us.	nevertheless , this is a painful process , we must go further , but no one will do it instead of us .	0,58
the head of the sanitary and hygienic supervision department of the consumer protection department, Alexander, answered these and other questions of entrepreneurs.	the answers on these and many other questions were given to the capital to entrepreneurs by head of health surveillance department of protection of the rights of entrepreneurs alekandr kim .	0,58
another casting took place in the Mangistau region, at which many musical and creative groups came in support of their young countrymen.	mangystau presented the most unusual casting competition : not only singers , but also musical groups participated in the concert .	0,58
this is the impact of AIDS and tuberculosis on business structures.	the public association  youth for a healthy lifestyle " believe that human should only change attitude to hiv / aids , tuberculosis .
application of uniform requirements based on the best international practices, eliminates administrative barriers, simplifies the procedures for delivering goods to the market, as well as improves the quality and competitiveness of products.
A.Aimbetov noted that for 17 years, starting from 1998, on behalf of the Head of State, it was prepared for space flights.
Kazakh students with their samples demonstrated human capabilities and the importance of preserving the environment.
the main migration exchange in the country takes place with the CIS states.
On August 27, a mobile medical complex will visit the village of tassai of the Kokpekty district of the East Kazakhstan region.
therefore, our accession to the WTO has opened a number of markets.
Winners and prize-winners were awarded with special diplomas and prizes.
panel members approved the list of sensitive agricultural products.
He noted that the center employees carry out all the work according to the plan.
At the same time, the decision of the national fund management council revised 39.2 billion tenge allocated earlier and allocated 31.2 billion tenge.
liberalization of labour legislation is an important step towards the formation of an effective market economy and the liberalization of the labor market in Kazakhstan.
The forum participants discussed the potential and state of the gas industry in the world.
As part of the preparation and implementation of the Astana city partnership program, the recommended expo 2017 proposed to work on the creation of qualification requirements for hotels, catering facilities and passenger transportation services.
over the past 5 years, the capital's budget has grown 1.2 times (from 301.8 billion tenge to 376.9 billion tenge).
The patriotic action of the armed forces of Kazakhstan dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Consiteration of Kazakhstan in our country continues in a solemn atmosphere.
the quota for attracting foreign labor will be formed in the industry, and not due to the economic activity of the population.	the bill establishes  problem loan fund " jsc in cooperation with corresponding organizations of second-tier banks .
opening of large chambers for cargo storage, installation of mobile groups, convenient places and equipment for disabled people.
For 9 months of this year, about 8,000 people received medical care in a round-the-clock hospital, about 4,000 patients received various vaccinations through the hospitalization bureau.
Since the beginning of the year, there has been a contract for transformers and metal products of the Kentau transformer plant. the body has already signed contracts on steel products and transformers supply .
a large number of letters came from the Karaganda region.
with a view to introducing a number of basic terms often used in practice but not clearly defined by law. in order to make a number of basic terms in the law . , to expand the competence of the authorized body in the field of environmental protection , to adjust the reporting system of monitoring , improving the distribution of quotas of greenhouse gas emissions , " the deputy minister has said .
At the same time, according to the report of the 1st of 28.07.2015 according to code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
He noted that now the clinic is working through a pilot project - a certain part of the employees will receive an electronic card.
these are very big finances, and he does not justify himself quickly.
I am glad that among them there are young civil servants.
without hiding, I always wanted to show in my historical homeland what I had prepared. i will not keep secret that i always want to show my pet project in my historical homeland .
Another gold went to the Kazakh piggy bank Victoria Zyabkina, who became the winner at a distance of 100 meters.
this is a great duty of all countries and world politicians to the future generation of our land, "the author expressed confidence.
in addition, they must apply to the Department of Agriculture of the region or city for special registration.
In their speeches, representatives of the Finnish business community noted the prospects for trade and economic cooperation in the framework of the Silk Road project.
therefore, in order to prevent errors in the approval of customs rates, it is necessary to coordinate them with other parties, "said M. Azbekova.
trenches for radar stations were dug up with personnel, masking and communication were organized.
At the same time, the rector noted that the Kazakh Khanate is only a stage in the development of Kazakhstan.
General Director for Asset Management of the Samruk-Kazyna Fund Nurzhan Kaydaulets headed the board of directors as a defender of the interests of a single shareholder.
Since January of this year, we have reduced production volumes.
however, the place of the scholarship is not limited.
and the number of informal mediations is even greater.
According to the chairman of the board, kdb attracts investments in Kazakhstan, cooperating with Japanese financial institutions, corporations.
secondly, thanks to the entry into force, exporters were able to transport goods through the Russian port.
the last third converter is now running.
they make up 5-7% of the final value of the goods.
There, everyone showed interest in EXPO-2017.
experts note that during this work it is possible to provide the city with 100% clean drinking water.
The purpose of the forum is to form relations and dialogue between manufacturers.
returning home, the captain of the temirlan of the Muskapirs and Major Baktiyar Akbalayev began their duties in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The team monitors the technical functioning of the plants.
At the opening of the plant, the director of pkf konket ko ltd, Semyon Hwan, and the director of Atyrau Polytechnic College signed a memorandum of understanding with the aim of improving the qualifications and employing college students.
with the advent of the new management, no significant changes were made, the estimated construction documentation underwent some changes.
Of course, there are a number of problems with attracting investment, but the government has developed a clear plan.
The dates and venue of the events will be discussed later.
Currently, members of the expedition get acquainted with the history of the region.
the people led to the habit of running and attracting.
The main goal of the union of light industry producers is to establish ties with enterprises in the field of light industry, universities engaged in the training of professional specialists. the main task of the union is to promote cooperation between enterprises of light industry , educational institutions , to train professional staff .
in particular, compensation was paid in a timely manner, and on May 5 the construction of new houses began.
For ten years, the forum of representatives of the creative and scientific intelligentsia of the CIS countries has received Moscow, Dushanbe, Chisinau, Kiev, Ashgabat, Minsk and the capital, "said the Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly who opened the forum.
I would suggest making the blue market and Silk Road Avenue a historic place, and increasing the ground footpaths along the city center and Farabi Avenue.
In the Kazakhstan section on the silk road, with the support of the Expo brand, the issue of starting a train of the orientexpress category is being worked out.
this will ensure citizenship and patriotic education.
Thanks to this, enterprises retained highly qualified specialists.
then they will undergo an internship at the enterprise.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Ukrainian side.
Despite objective economic difficulties, Kazakhstan successfully implements infrastructure projects in the field of education.	astana held the opening of a students house of kazakhstan 's branch of lomonossov moscow state university .	0,58
The native law is the basis of our independence, the basis of the development of the state, the guarantee of the freedom and freedom of our citizens.
they mainly produce basic chemicals and mineral fertilizers, paints and paints, washing and cleaning products, pesticides and other agrochemical substances.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to meet with the business community of Kazakhstan and recognize it as worthy. you gave me the great honor of allowing to appeal to the business community of friendly kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan will reduce the average customs tariff for goods from 10.4% to 6.5% within the single customs tariff.
The Chairman of the Government in front of veterans and guests of honor awarded departmental awards to the best employees and advanced servicemen of the special services.
of these, 52 are in the ground forces, 11 among the air defense forces and 3 in the naval forces.
meetings of the committee are held in Astana and Brussels alternately.
As far as I know, today about 700 students from Kazakhstan are studying at the Ural Federal University named after B. Yeltsin.
Recall, on June 5, the annual muse-tv award will be held in the capital for the first time.
heat and power supply enterprises in the winter season are also provided with fuel in a timely manner, an appropriate amount of fuel oil and solid fuel is obtained.
the agreement ensures free circulation of vehicles and other equipment in a single customs territory. the agreement creates the conditions for free vehicles circulation in the common territory and regulates the unified forms of passports .
The competition was attended by girls born in 1995 and boys.
physical factor affecting horizon range.
he noted that the first is to improve the quality of selection.
During the meeting, the participants discussed the possibilities of developing "smart" technologies, as well as updating communication channels in the region.
it is aimed at supporting the idea of ​ ​ the head of state n.nazarbayev.
we suggest using our centers as one window.
and now she has achieved a golden victory!
the last time it took place in Chinese Shanghai.
today is an anniversary family. "
I think that our constitution plays an important role that can be used as the experience of other young states, "said Abdrasulov.
Traffic police together with the Department of Education of Akmola region annually hold a regional meeting of detachments of young traffic inspectors.
the chairmanship of the summit in Dushanbe passed from Tajikistan to Armenia.
It is worth noting that the management of the fire fighting service appealed for housing for newly arrived specialists.
in the context of the global economic crisis and competition to attract foreign investment in the mining industry, the reliability of investors in information on mineral resources is the most important factor in making investment decisions, "the report said.
happy sagintayev, who laid flowers at the monument to the dead test soldiers, took part in official events, and also congratulated the townspeople, employees of the Baikonur cosmodrome and veterans on their anniversary.
we cooperate in the supply of coal concentrates, build cooperation in the agro-industrial complex.
Therefore, in order to prevent such problems, we are now trying to help enterprises only institutional.
The construction of the school was carried out by Ask Aulny Stroy LLP.
But good preparation will certainly lead to a better result. "
The main goal of the project is to ensure that able-bodied citizens from low-income families not only receive appropriate benefits from the state, but also are socially wealthy, professional.
the first conquered peak was located at an altitude of 2,880 meters and was one of the peaks at the extremities of the alatau.
therefore, the tariffs for utility bills will provide for an investment composition.
weighted average interest rate on deposits was 0.11%.
classes are almost focused and are held in a format of a training, discussion, discussion, exchange of experience, at the same time participants consider situational tasks and cases.
at a gala dedicated to a fun concert, a concert of the Akku Hope dance ensemble of the Nadezhda orphanage was held.
its aim is to improve water efficiency and water security.
he is actively working with other educational institutions, law enforcement agencies of more than 80 states of the world.
The meeting also noted the importance of the regional forum as it would give impetus to humanitarian aspects in the field of migration.
to prevent collisions, accurately determine the trajectory and create the possibility of contact with today's hgs, joint work was carried out by Russian ballistics and their American colleagues, specialists, "the report said.
B. In his speech, van Berden noted that cooperation with our republic is one of the priority areas of the concern's work.
In the future, the competition "The best product of Kazakhstan" will be in demand.
7 enterprises are engaged in fish processing in the area.
all materials for thermal systems are Kazakh products.
A decision was also signed to appoint the Deputy Secretary General of the Turkic Council and the President of the Turkic Culture and Heritage Fund.
The Governor also noted that the issue of participation of the Chinese company in the construction of Zheo-3 in Semipalatinsk will be discussed in the coming week during the visit of the East Kazakhstan delegation to the Xinjiang-Uighur Autonomous Region.
but with the seniority of 35 years and more, the pension should not exceed 100% of the subsistence minimum, "said the Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Tamara Duissenova.
the largest number of questions concerned the assignment of a surname, patronymic after adoption, the possibility of appointing a new child, as well as the procedure for registering adoption only by the adopter.
It is worth noting that the entry into force of this agreement will be the main condition for establishing a visa-free regime for citizens with national passports in these states.
the interior of the building is made in accordance with a single design project.
after China are Russia (45; + 8), India (55; + 16) and Brazil (75; -18).
Today, on the eve of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Day of Education, this means that they have great responsibility, "said the deputy director of the first museum of Kazakhstan botagoz kaipova.
It should be noted that every year on the second Thursday of November, World Quality Day is celebrated around the world.
understanding the architectural meaning of the capital by solving practical problems.
As you know, the vast majority of laws for the implementation of the National Plan are put into effect on January 1, 2016.
and in the city of Semey it is planned to implement special projects for the modernization of heat supply systems.
the second stage of the competition will be held in the fourth quarter of this year.
And the leaders in the production of such batteries are such states as Germany, Japan.
the first was commissioned two years ago in the Zhanakorgan district and is now built in the Shieli district.
According to him, the automation of processes related to public procurement will allow us to carry out camera control.
employment in SMEs is 112,188 or 100.3 per cent.
and there are no paid grounds in doctoral studies, 91 people will study under state orders (70 last year), "the report said.
the previous Constitution was adopted on 28 January 1993.
At the same time, he noted that the new apartment is very warm and with furniture.
Recall that the investment project "Implementation of institutional reforms and dissemination of technologies in the health sector of the Republic of Kazakhstan" is one of the joint initiatives of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the international bank for reconstruction and development within the framework of strategic partnership.
This year, 2.2 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The main thing is that we ourselves ask ourselves whether we know some kind of sermon or prophecy of another religion.
17 of them were selected as competitive, 5 were recommended for further study during production.
In addition, as a result of online voting, the largest number of votes (5042) was collected by the Pavlodar regional genre of the Skandigit project "House of the Mentally Ill."
The selection of pupils will be carried out according to the results of the training camp.
spirit, national identity, heroism and wisdom, hopes and dreams of our people.
now residents of villages and district centers do not need to go to the city to buy office goods from world manufacturers. now the villagers don 't need to travel to the city for stationery .
The work is aimed at improving customs operations and customs procedures using modern information technologies, transparent implementation of all processes, "said the head of the department of state revenues of the Mangistau region alibek talegens.
Currently, the national holding provides effective assistance in the implementation of the Kazagrofinance equipment produced at the plant thanks to white leasing programs, the company sends more than half of all components of tractors to the economy and agro-formation of the republic.
as a result of a short circuit, a fire occurs inside the tug vessel.
according to him, all Kazakh materials are laudatory, and the quality is very high.
As the expert noted, with the age of each member of society it is necessary to know that his actions affect the development of society.
and the analysis showed a high risk of corruption in the allocation of budgetary resources in the implementation of programmes.
The purpose of the charity bike ride is to provide charitable assistance to a medical and social institution for children with disabilities.
The head of state has repeatedly emphasized that 60-90% in developed countries is formed thanks to entrepreneurship.
it is not only a certain group or model of unity, it is unity synchronized with nature itself.
We are a country that set the great goal of raising children, equating grandfather with grief, mother with a transparent birth, child with a green birth.	it is also noted that the region awarded cash certificates , valuable prizes and special diplomas 36 families .	0,58
there our units worked out elements of joint execution of various tasks in difficult conditions.	also the military units of the country held the first bilateral company commander and tactical anti-terrorist exercises in the territory of our state in september-october .	0,58
its passage includes a set of special measures (landing a unit on the stern of a conditional enemy, performing combat missions).	passing of it requires a set of special measures : dropping of units in the rear of the imaginary enemy , performance of combat missions .	0,58
another historical feature is that kerei and other khans, despite the diversity of views, were tolerant, the deputy added.
When we brought Kazakhstani producers to foreign markets, we saw that any country closes its market by tariff.
According to the political scientist, projects that cannot be implemented as part of the fiasco are long-term and their economic effect will be in 10-15 years.
the union should strive to become the only body in the economic space.
In addition to the doctors of the Republican Sanaviation Center, employees of the Almaty city emergency medical care station, as well as employees of the training and clinical center of Astana took part in Lithuania as observers.
The head of the region got acquainted with the work of the heating main, which is undergoing reconstruction on Santa Claus Street with a length of 2.5 km.
The goal of the memorandum is to ensure a long-term partnership between the Yeek and the Tju on railway transport issues on the Eurasian continent.
they are the true discoverer of society, imitator of good deeds.
The meeting considered the quality and effectiveness of environmental monitoring of the environment, as well as the state of medical monitoring of public health.
As of October 27, 2015, according to the calculation of 1-r for the year according to code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 3.1 billion tenge.
more than 600 medical workers took part in the solemn meeting.
the competition strengthens family friendship and promotes its further development.
the team that conducted the sport is a real winner.
The Ambassador congratulated the graduates of the Kazakhstan Academy of Civil Aviation and wished them success in their professional activities.
It is noted that the main purpose of the visit - Kazakh producers agreed to supply their products to Turkmenistan in the amount of about 15 million dollars.
Following the review, the Board of Governors unanimously approved the draft agreement on the creation of Bu Bank and gave the authority to the General Director of the agency to conclude an agreement with Kazakhstan, "said B. Sadykov.
The meeting discussed the existing experience of ensuring the rule of law in Kazakhstan and a number of issues related to the implementation of joint projects.
According to the world rating, we can be considered to be among the 50 developed countries in the world, "said Galia Zholdybayeva.
To date, there are 65 primary party organizations in the city with more than 654 thousand members, 145 of them in this diamond region.
commissioning of a new plant will increase the capabilities of the station.
infrastructure projects include electricity, road repair, water supply, design and estimate, state expertise and other industries.
It is noted that 4 projects will be implemented on scales.
At the official ceremony, the Director General of the National Art Museum of the Republic of Belarus Prokoptsov noted that the cooperation of the leading museums of the two countries consolidates the link of intercultural relations.
preserving the family is, firstly, preserving the state! protecting family , people protect the country .
A mediation center for dispute resolution has been created.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during the conversation, the main positions of our country within the framework of the 70th session of the UN and other relevant issues, including on the situation in Syria, were outlined.
the second is to understand what level of standardization we need.
meetings were held in order to develop the domestic military-industrial complex.
China's business environment is particularly interested in EXPO 2017.	the parties also noted that the kazakh-chinese relations continue to develop .	0,59
The participants of the meeting noted that this international forum is very important for both states and noted issues of bilateral cooperation, which, thanks to friendly relations between the leaders of Kazakhstan and China, has reached new heights of development.	as k.dzhakupov said , kazakhstan and china today are on the verge of a new stage of bilateral cooperation .	0,59
In May this year, during the visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan, President N. Nazarbayev.	commissioner has met with the director of the department of the state administration of tourism of china , and discussed joint projects in the field of tourism , the year of china 's tourism in kazakhstan , to attract chinese tourists at expo 2017 .	0,59
now we need to deal with investments, factories and factories.	not only kazakhstan is proud of this , but also many of the cis countries , because the biggest problem in the world today is interethnic relations .	0,59
The meeting noted that sustainable development and stability in the region are possible, first of all, through the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development, the creation of new industries and jobs.	the road is planned to run through the cities such as arkalyk , torgau , karabutak , aktobe and dossor beyneu with access from atyrau to astrakhan 2198 km in length , 1651 km of which are subject to reconstruction .	0,59
One of the other mechanisms for improving the professionalism of the state apparatus will be the certification of all administrative public servants in 2016.
if we say such companies, they will be presented for an expo partnership.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions
The most expensive gift for the anniversary, dedicated to the Day of the capital, are the achievements of Kazakhstan.
children live in a young family one after another.
Delegates will be presented at the forum on the investment climate of Kazakhstan in the agro-industrial complex.
In this regard, the teaching and methodological department is carrying out appropriate work to improve the system of methodological bases of language centers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
both the house under construction and the constitution are the foundation of the legal system.
our choice is to fight violence.
This is a day in which each of us expresses our sincere condolences and gratitude to the citizens under the protection of health care in Akmola region.
Participants of the seminar visited the Electric Locomotive Plant LLP, where they got acquainted with the progress of certification of rolling stock traction equipment.
They attracted music to the arrival of guests: they performed folk songs, played national instruments.
In addition, akim noted that during the audit it is necessary to find and hold accountable those who spread false rumors.
a 280-seat kindergarten will be opened in the Aray microdistrict.
the country recently celebrated the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The first package includes measures to identify investor issues, as well as to conduct information work on the available business opportunities in Almaty.
Gurm and Saeed al-Milhan stated that the Saudi Arabs are very interested in the prospects for the development of mutually beneficial relations between the two states.
A collection of decisions was considered among the designers of the state expertise.
The gala concert was attended by artists of the regional philharmonic society.	a bright gala concert was held on the main square of the district and an international competition on national kinds of equestrian sport was organized at the racetrack  kokbastau . "
In particular, issues related to the participation of the Minister of Defense, Chemical and Biological Defense Program Andrew Weber, Senior Senior Researcher at the Norwegian Institute of International Relations, as well as
According to Vladimir Maltsev, Director of the Production Policy Department of the EEC, according to the results of the examination, the first step in the development of the domestic market of the union should be the preparation and adoption of a road map.
A fire truck with an alarm came to the scene, from which the firefighter caused a conditional fire.
in any weather, a special field treatment kit was shown with the possibility of simultaneous decontamination and degassing of 150 people.
In addition, the company plans to build a feed plant with a capacity of 30 tons per hour in the Akmola region.
after the commissioning of the two-story building, the issue of three-shift training in the area will be resolved.
Also during the speech, an initiative was initiated to adopt a universal declaration of the United Nations on achieving a world free of nuclear weapons.
The bilateral important document was signed within the framework of the international Lithuanian-Kazakh transport and logistics conference held on June 5-6 in Klaipeda.
The general training allowed to work out the professional skills of personnel and the psychological readiness of police and military personnel in extreme situations.
The parties also exchanged views on improving the activities of the partnership within the framework of a joint transport and logistics company (block).
copper production in concentrate amounted to 181.5 thousand tons, which is higher than the planned indicators of 5.4 thousand tons (+ 3%).
Since the beginning of implementation of the program "Business roadmap" Pavlodar region allocated 15.3 billion tenge.
paintings of these masters are filled with their personal experiences in the artistic world, a figurative perception of life.
the enterprise is engaged in the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
our country is a recognized leader in the region.
Also, the deputy chairman of the school of the party "Nұr Otan" Olga Bulavkina shared her plans for the implementation of 100 specific steps.
all costs are calculated, prepared.
To date, the facility has been partially built.	the equipment was bought in europe .	0,59
why the old settlement "?
he pays special attention to each visitor.
the film was shown in English.	the documentary was screened in the english language .	0,59
Among the countries applying for Eidu membership are Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, and Russia.	having confirmed their interest in the development of themes , the parties have agreed to continue working contacts .	0,59
One of them will be the construction of Kazmaly LLP in the Uyghur region, which plans to increase the number of Hereford and Angus cattle, and in the Alakol region the cargo service will soon build a transport and logistics terminal.
the basis of education is human capital.
the delivery of documents for obtaining a land plot takes a long time.
Dr. Mark Payman is a prominent anti-corruption and anti-corruption expert.
Recent attempts to abuse children have been of great concern to society. in recent years , the problem of child abuse is of great public interest .
According to him, 10,343 clubs and 807 yard clubs participate in the creative upbringing of children.
this will take 10-15 years.
Of course, all events at the level of mutual understanding and trust will serve the benefit of our countries, "he said.
service support includes marketing services.
Increasing efforts to attract investors, including attracting foreign investors in the country.
most orphans have their parents' eyes alive.	this is a huge figure .	0,59
At the same time, the expert noted that the one-nation road map remains the document that forms the system.	however , apk 's expert has noted that the road maps of the nation of the common future will become single systemically documents .	0,59
Improving the quality of higher education is possible due to closer interaction of universities with the labor market, "said an adviser to the director of the center of the Bologna process and academic mobility.
At the same time, it was proposed to introduce laws "on arbitration courts" and "on international commercial arbitration," the Minister of Justice said.
Currently, the national commission supported the proposal to raise the age of candidates for judges from 25 to 30 years.
note that "turkvizyon" is the first music competition, independent of political, professional pressure, which chose the principle of honesty and openness of the results of the popular vote.
At the same time, we must emphasize that we do not limit civil servants to study in other educational institutions. but at the same time , civil servants do not prohibit the study and other educational institutions , any institution he can get a decent education .
there were no appeals and complaints from the population.
For example, work on the bill "On access to information" began by deputies of the Majilis of the IV convocation.
parents of children adopted from Kazakhstan thanked the diplomatic mission of the country and noted with gratitude that their children, although briefly, fell into the cultural atmosphere of their historical homeland.
in turn, the Ayatollah praised Kazakhstan's course towards maintaining peace and stability in the region.
The meeting was organized by the youth resource center of Mangistau region.
the bank savings fund moved from the financial center to the regions.
I'm glad to be there for the baby on this important day.	the young soldiers were supported by their parents and relatives .	0,59
It is noted that sms-voting was held from September 2 to 11 of this year.	the winners of sms and internet voting will be announced today , and this will be a final stage of the entire contest .	0,59
The deputy of the Majilis congratulated his colleagues on the recent day of German unity and the upcoming chairmanship of the German Ecu.	they noted the ongoing development of both political and trade and economic relations between kazakhstan and germany .	0,59
Today we propose an agreement with the Principality of Monaco on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.	the purpose of the agreement is to achieve the mutual legal assistance between the republic of kazakhstan and the principality of monaco .	0,59
Today, in many regions of the world, there are serious risks of destabilizing the situation associated with the intensification of extremist, terrorist and separatist organizations trying to weaken State initiatives.	the minister of defense of kazakhstan imangali tasmagambetov and chief of the general staff of the republic of kazakhstan , colonel-general saken zhasuzakov will watch the entire process .	0,59
three, two or other formats are being discussed, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. sagintayev.
reduced mutual trade turnover.
Following the results of the forum, the Seoul declaration was adopted.
In general, within the framework of the formation of complete intolerance in society to commit petty hooliganism for 8 months of this year, there is an identification of offences classified in this category.
let your new shelters be delighted.
Thus, all three instructions of the head of state entrusted to us are fully implemented.
The hope project programme is being implemented jointly with the International Organization for Migration, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in 7 regions of the country with large numbers of migrant workers.
The opening of the monument was attended by representatives of the intelligentsia.
The event was organized by the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region.
The assistant franc squarchapino says that the signature of an outstanding artist can be seen in each costume, so that each fabric, ornament and jewelry were selected with a distinctive feature.
The interest of the Canadian business community in Kazakhstan is not easy, since in recent years the country has become Canada's main trading partner among the states of post-Soviet and eastern Europe and is included in the list of priority states of the "global plan of action in the markets," adopted by the federal government of Canada in 2013.
Distinguished Chairman, colleagues, thank you for your support.
erroneous opinion that, unfortunately, there will be a technological breakthrough in this company, especially if it cannot clearly determine the reasons for changes in meat during communications with top managers. if manager cannot properly explain the need for change in it , especially to the top - manager , unfortunately , a technological breakthrough will not exist .
For Kazakhstan, this is the removal of barriers to export to Russia, because this system also has force there.
in addition, it is a producer of European pharmacopoeia (a document used for the production of pharmaceutical products in EU countries).
The Secretary of State gave clear answers to all the questions of the young correspondents.
a multi-ton simple fire extinguishing ac cannot pass either over the bridge or along the waste river.
Only in the first half of this year, the interdepartmental commission has repeatedly considered materials on 30 objects.
in Kazakhstan there is a great interest in opera and ballet art, the only evidence of which is the construction of an amazing theater building, each show of which takes place with a full house, "said opera singer from Poland Katarzyna Matskiewicz.
in general, the region has a very good increase in grain crops. in comparison with last year , a large amount of precipitation promises good weather conditions , we hope for a good harvest .
I wish you and your families well.
I want to note the warm meeting and the good intentions of our Kazakhstani colleagues.
The package includes medical assistance provided by the ambulance service, air ambulance, socially significant diseases, as well as in emergency situations, preventive vaccinations.
I think I will show great results.
In the future, the company will participate in the construction of social housing under the programs "Nұr zhol" and "Affordable housing 2020."
As a result of the measures taken and the tight schedule and terms of payment of wage arrears, 23.7 thousand employees were protected, to whom 3.1 billion tenge were paid.
the draft civil procedure code as a whole provides for increasing the speed of civil procedure legislation, ensuring effective judicial protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of individuals and legal entities by modernizing it for the active application of conciliation procedures in judicial proceedings, "the senator said.
The event was dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, during which the stages of the formation of statehood and independence until those years were announced.
the fair town will be located on the square of the mega shopping center, located in the area of ​ ​ Turan Avenue and Kurgalzhinsky Highway.
skydiving has its own features and difficulties.
in particular, application of proposals of international organizations, standards in the absence of eeo requirements, "said a.mamytbekov.
according to the procedure, every third case leads to an accident.
in the implementation of all projects, the best world-famous installations and new technologies will be used.
G. Rabitsky stressed that until sharp calculations were carried out to create each part, there were a lot of technical difficulties.
the main task is to export up to half of the products produced to the markets of the CIS countries within three years.
It was noted that Kazakhstan will continue to support efforts to maintain peace in Afghanistan within the framework of various international organizations.
In turn, the dimash teacher, professor of the treasury mayra dauletbak praised this competition.
The President of Kazakhstan set a number of key tasks, noting the need to realize the potential of the region.
Speaking to the participants, the Grand Duke of Luxembourg noted that henri is a unique international platform for discussing modern threats and developing measures against them.
In this regard, the importance of ensuring free access of the population to information on the environmental situation in the region of residence was noted.
for entrepreneurs of small and small towns and rural settlements, the state subsidizes 10% of the total rate of no more than 14% per annum on loans up to 750 million tenge. if we talk about the economic impact , the contribution of small and medium entrepreneurs in the economic development of the country amounted to about 3.5 trillion tenge , " the managing director has said .
Also adopt amendments on issues of non-performing loans and assets of second-tier banks, financial services and activities of financial organizations and the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the building was built according to modern technologies, sound installations and air purification plants meet modern requirements.
The Heads of State Parties to the Meeting take stock of previous summits and identify new challenges.
In this regard, it is planned to develop a program for retraining students, "the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
Work will be undertaken to streamline the delivery of public services.
The total area of the said area was 63 square kilometers, which is considered permissible in accordance with the terms of the contract (the area should not exceed 65 square kilometers).
The speech of the President of Kazakhstan at the anniversary session strengthened the confidence of every Kazakhstani in his leader and aroused pride. we are proud of the ideas put forward by the president in speech at the jubilee session .
educational facilities, health care are already connected to 100% heat.
The conference program focuses on the transition to a green economy at the international level, the dissemination of advanced green technologies and projects, the development of green business, support for institutional and technical innovations, "said the head of school.
the rich literary heritage of the poet is the spiritual heritage of not only one people, but also of all mankind.
today we are in a situation where we need to move away from the maximum dollar, we must make all calculations equal, that is, we understand that every person still cannot live, "said N. Radostovets.
For example, 10 of the 12 bank projects financed this year belonged to agriculture, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
your mission is complex and very responsible and requires you to make every effort to give all your ambitions.
As part of this, a republican tournament on military-applied sports among youth before conscription was held in Almaty region.
secondly, after the completion of construction work, the concessionaire's object will be fully handed over to the state in readiness.
The Mayor of the city noted that this year more than 210 thousand students, including more than 26 thousand children, will study in Almaty schools.
for domestic companies, this is a large market, providing not only light industry, but also high-quality growth due to stable turnover.
Following the negotiations, the following documents were signed:
And its modern technologies for processing agricultural land can increase grain production in Kazakhstan by 2 times.
today's memorandum is the result.
The ceremony of awarding and awarding military personnel who distinguished themselves in the performance of duties in the framework of the patriotic action "Father is faithful to the law" is very impressive.
Nowadays, the presented soft skin has disappeared in the center, there are no such masters, "said the muxin ospanova guide.
these are, firstly, emissions to the atmosphere, after which toxic substances can also be released in abnormal conditions.
The head of the city spoke about the role and importance of Almaty in the further development of fruitful cooperation.
here military personnel master equipment for the development of all types of mountain gorges, swim to the top, undergo training for ski and snow avalanches, and learn life skills in mountain areas.
at the same time, a special place is occupied by domestic literature, which determines the level of spiritual and cultural development of society.
all this is due to a sense of responsibility, that is, a person must understand that responsibility is at least to humanity. all this is reasonable understanding of the responsibility when the person responsible to be thought of as the responsibility for humanity .
The results of the competition were summed up by the chairman of the jury, a well-known public figure, Mr. Zhodasbekov.
During the implementation of the projects in 2009-2014, traffic was opened from the border of the Russian Federation to the city of Shymkent for 1,884 km through Aktobe, Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan.
As the company's representatives noted, the export of their products is an important stage in the development of the enterprise, to date, with the support of the state, this support has been carried out.
the total circulation of the book amounted to 7 thousand copies.
therefore, this sport is available to everyone.
Following the meeting, the commission decided to approve the list of works that were pre-selected for the award of the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan named after al-Farabi in the field of science and technology.
the performance in the bar ice complex is broadcast live by the Internet portal "message," "Kazakhstan" "education and culture" and e-history.
this holiday is manifested in good and good approaches that contribute to the strengthening of humanistic traditions and strengthen the moral roots in society.
Recall that in Kazakhstan, representatives of more than 130 peoples and nationalities live in friendship and harmony.
I think that the musical event itself will have great strength.
the Icelandic side confirmed the desire to develop mutually beneficial cooperation and suggested considering the possibility of placing a joint site of the Nordic countries (nordic group) at expo 2017.
As he noted, the organizers were invited to oblige to place rules for spectators in the venues of the event.
As part of the talks, the heads of member states discussed topical development problems and the development situation of the union.
Guests also visited the maternity hospital in the central hospital, where they got acquainted with the condition of the mother and child.
to date, the technical regulation has switched to a mandatory form.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Mongol side.
Following the results of the event, a number of documents were signed.
In addition, the ambassador noted that a plan for the creation of the Kazakh-French Chamber of Entrepreneurs and a direct flight Astana-Paris has been opened.
Russians really like the Kazakh tastes of our products, and here and in the south of the country, "said the director of the Pavlodar processing company.
According to the press service, the general director of ktze - khorgos gateway LLP karl geysen told visitors in detail about the operation of the dry port and shared plans for the future.
the Kazakh diplomat appreciated the wishes of the German Chancellor.
According to the owners of the meetings, the priority areas for the development of bilateral cooperation are transport, construction, agricultural, food and light industry, tourism, culture.
visiting investors can work here lying down.
At the upcoming meeting, the model of a special report for monitoring the activities of natural monopolies, compiled by the Eesovians together with the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), was discussed.
Based on the results of the consideration by the courts, including the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this order is recognized as legal and justified.
The construction of a school with 600 seats is nearing completion.
In conclusion, the President of Kyrgyzstan wished the head of state good health, inexhaustible energy and further success in state activities.
In this regard, according to him, negotiations are underway with companies, the search for future partners in priority areas.
all five reforms cover all spheres of life.
senators, etc., noted the importance of this document and called on colleagues to support the document.
In recent years, in connection with the increase in the territory of the city, landscaping of the parasat park in the city has been carried out.
the qualification commission accepted the tests and handed over certificates for posts on the completion of initial training.
the economy and economy of these countries, the social situation of the population, education and science are much ahead.
According to him, given the strategic significance of the program, the document was agreed with members of the republican commission for training personnel abroad.
contest participants will become winners of prizes and grants and will have the opportunity to continue their readings and then get into the top three.
The meeting with the participation of leading specialists of many countries and Kazakhstan will allow to share the accumulated experience, achievements in the field of radiological science and practice and share thoughts on the development of this area, "said Aleksay Tsoi.
Following the talks, agreements were reached to develop cooperation and strengthen the trade and investment sphere.
This competition is one of the most important aspects of multilateral and fruitful cooperation, conducted at the initiative of the head of state in order to develop mutually beneficial partnership, strengthen relations of trust and good neighborliness.
the training involved the forces and means of the police, the national guard and the penal system, showed a high level of consistency and coordination in solving their tasks.
this is a very large gap, we must ensure the desire of visually impaired schoolchildren to the level of well-trained.
each presentation is unusual and unique in its own way.
in one of the wells at a depth of 200 linear meters, a body of new ore was found.
It is important that the seminar participants be widely informed about the useful information necessary for further improvement and development of their affairs, "said the Mayor of the city.
A 320-seat preschool institution in the village is being built by representatives of Sevkazenergo JSC as part of a public-private partnership.
At the same time, he noted that the state pays great attention to the modernization of housing and communal services and infrastructure.
In addition, partners share experiences.
Currently, 50 people are employed in this institution.
a very competent composition of arrived specialists, among whom, along with foreign specialists, are domestic regional mediators.
Solar panels with 192 thousand energy generation are used here.
with my team, I began to develop the fantasy genre.
This event is traditionally held annually, it officially initiates the celebration of Capital Day.
However, priorities for judicial reform are now being identified.
started as a chemistry teacher.
Access to public services is expanding.
Francis mod highlighted the importance of the theme of the upcoming exhibition, noting that the UK has extensive experience in the field of alternative technologies.
In 2014, the number of victims of terrorist attacks in the world increased by 81% compared to 2013.
We considered several directions and directions of this direction.
In addition, in the future, the company plans to put in one row the production of feed for poultry farming in the Akmola region.
all of them are unique and found on the territory of our country.
According to him, the Academy for Public Service Affairs is the only educational institution where civil servants are trained.
as part of this initiative, an independent payment platform (system) will be launched, the main goal of which is to provide Kazakhstan banks with operational clearing services for processing their card transactions.
your country has made a lot of efforts to improve the investment climate.
The Chamber will also consider a number of ratification bills.
the people's representative advised to form a healthy lifestyle.
at the same time, at the airfields of Ryazan, Syzran and Lipetsk cities, an "air map" will unfold with the participation of Kazakhstan flight crews mig-29, su-25, su-27 and mi-8.
At the same time, he noted that a decrease in oil production from the planned level of 1.5 million tons will negatively affect gin.
in addition, he said, a bill on the activities of non-governmental organizations had been submitted to Parliament.
in general, the measures implemented in the country contribute to the prevention of illegal actions and violence against children.
according to the expert, the actions of civil servants will be correct only when specific conditions are introduced for them.
In addition, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev said that after discussions, this issue will be brought to the level of heads of state, in accordance with the decision taken by the presidents, this format will be determined.
booking queues in population service centers of the top three in terms of popularity of electronic services, "said the head of the Mobile Government project gulmira isabekova.
The forum will be held with the participation of heads of state and world governments.
Earlier it was reported that this year Kazakhstan ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and committed itself to implementing international standards for citizens with disabilities.
however, it should be borne in mind that these advanced States significantly exceed the special services and responsibilities of these bodies, and they differ significantly from law enforcement and judicial authorities in our country.
In addition, during the event, an agreement was concluded between the Kazakh and Korean parties on the joint assembly of a prototype of a theft with the design of a system architecture, basic functions and a user interface.
More than 550 athletes from 8 countries of the world, including Russia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine.
today the production capacity of the plant reaches 15-20 thousand square meters of glass per month, which is about 300-400 thousand square meters per year.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is very important for strengthening the identity and unity of the Kazakh people.
this will allow students of Almaty universities to work on summer vacation to construction teams on favorable conditions.
Further development of transport medicine, including emergency medical care and telemedicine, mobile pharmacy stations, is also envisaged.
Accept unisef proposals aimed at preventing orphanages in Kazakhstan.
he congratulated the audience on the 20th anniversary of the constitution and called on civil servants to serve honestly in front of their homeland.
Given the pace of development of the capital, as well as the growth in energy consumption, there was a need for expansion of energy sources and new construction.
In this regard, a bill has been drafted providing for the legislative consolidation of the status of the local police service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (on amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the activities of the local police service), "said E. Lepekh.
the unemployment rate fell to 1.8 per cent.
servicemen demonstrated their skill in fire training from weapons and worked out tactical actions on military shooting from bmp.
B. Atamkulov entrusted the local authorities with the delivery of the facility at the approved time.
the team of our sailors was slightly ahead of the Russian sailors on the small artillery ship "hail sviyazhsk."
On the agenda of the plenary session there is also a ratified bill - an intergovernmental agreement between Kazakhstan and Serbia on the protection of investments.
For two weeks, artists shot down metal sculptures in the Kobda region of the homeland of the hero of the Soviet Union aliyah Moldagulova.
Currently, the soldier is a master of sports in hand-to-hand combat, a candidate for master of sports in boxing.
And the holiday, as always, was horse-drawn.
the total volume of industrial products amounted to 100.3%.
Thus, in 2012-2015, the period for the provision of public services decreased by an average of 33%.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, as an institution with high political dominance of the people's representation, has created public organizations in its structures that directly strengthen our Kazakh identity. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan created public organizations that directly shape and strengthen kazakhstan 's identity .
Following the meeting, the leaders of Baiterek Holding and the Chinese Bank agreed to send the Chinese side within a few days a list of the first projects for implementation, as well as to hold the first meeting of the working group.
It will be carried out in order to use sea water in the region, "the report said.
in 9 fights with rivals from Great Britain and southern Africa, having not suffered a single defeat, they won a gold prize in team kumite.
the interdepartmental commission coordinates the tasks of creating conditions for the protection of children's rights, implements measures to improve the condition of children and social support provided by 10 relevant ministries, akimats of all levels (regional, city, district), "said Z. Razgaliev.
in addition, akim stressed that if the executive branch, the state, civil society, business worked together, then the lives of people in need of social assistance would improve.
he stressed that all laws adopted during the session were the result of joint and concerted work.
schools are provided with computer classes.
at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Hungary, a number of officials and public figures of Hungary were awarded medals confirmed by the al-Farabi International Charitable Foundation and the Sultan.
I want to congratulate the people of Kyrgyzstan and the President of the Kyrgyz Republic on the successful holding of parliamentary elections.	as for president almazbek atambayev , the head of kazakhstan congratulated him on the successful parliamentary elections .	0,60
but there were mistakes, gaps.	there are a lot of pictures in the book ,  president of the publishing corporation " kazakparat " konysbek botbai has said .
The spartakiad was held on the basis of the regional hippodrome, which was held in national sports in the red tier of the Kokshetau akala.
The Head of State noted that despite the unfavorable conditions on the world market and other external conditions that do not allow to fully realize the potential of the integration association, the future of the EAEU is bright.
According to him, the creation of an iaea will strengthen global security and the system of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the need to consider in detail other areas, including the training of volunteers, ensuring the access of our compatriots to the exhibition.
new gas analyzers are installed at Karaganda TPP-3.
the culsarian family won 25,751 votes.
It is expected that the next stage of the "project of the century," initiated by the head of state, will lead a small vessel.
However, as the representative of the World Bank noted in his report, such changes could open up new opportunities for sectors traded in eastern Europe and central Asia.
In addition, the issue of reducing the share of loans whose maturity exceeds 90 days has been resolved, if earlier their volume reached 33%, now it has decreased to 9.98%, "said K. Elimbetov.
entry of our enterprises into foreign markets.
In addition, he noted that preparations for the winter universiade are going according to plan.
information will be available during this month.
In this regard, the Governor of the region instructed the relevant state institutions to conduct an examination and proposals for the placement of the woodworking industry, transport logistics and land resources, infrastructure.
The Majilismen will also consider bills relating to amendments to the law "On the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan" and on the activities of the local police service.
including production of raw materials, training of specialists on the basis of educational institutions connected to the gas pipeline of Akmola region.
The 76 steps include school incentives and grants to 96 schools annually. within the 76th step the development of system stimulation of schools and improvement of the system of awarding of annual grants at 96 schools that will be aimed at the updating of the material and technical base and encouraging teachers will be provided .
for mine protection of the reservoir of ship bases, berths, ship tracks and coastal parts.
at a narrow meeting, we held lengthy discussions on these two issues.
In addition, in order to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to the city, representatives of public utilities carried out ongoing and overhaul of electrical installations.
According to the Vice Minister, if you compare the energy efficiency of the economy of Kazakhstan with other states, you can see how energy efficient its economy is.
Thanks to this work, entrepreneurs were able to save 217 million tenge.
The three largest universities in the country are working on the creation of a single scientific and educational center.
As the executive director noted, if the state of health of the child leads to physical illness, then life expectancy is 1.5 years.
Kyzylorda scientists improved this initiative.
a good person will be raised if there is a good character.
As part of the study, 12,206 respondents were interviewed who directly participated in trials in 193 district and equivalent courts of the republic.
Thus, during the reporting period, the courts considered 7 thousand 350 materials on conditional release of convicted citizens from liability, 4 thousand 313 materials on mitigation of liability, more than 17 thousand materials on bringing judicial acts to the norms of the criminal code with the application of the article on the use of retroactive force of the law, "said a.rachmetulin.
Ekdb provides support for the implementation of AAC projects and a landfill for the processing of MSW, which are of great importance in the urban economy.
members of the committee discussed issues of strengthening control over compliance with the requirements imposed when organizing production in special economic territories and in the zone of free warehouses when processing stored goods and foreign raw materials.
During the action, employees of the administrative traffic police stopped drivers who ignored high-speed restriction signs.
the fall in energy intensity of our economy is an opportunity to compete in the global market. reducing the energy intensity opens up new opportunity to compete .
The procedure on this issue is regulated by the rules for the use of the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the new system will improve the quality of work of railway workers in servicing consignors and receivers of goods.
there is preparation.
Today, in a globalized environment, schools must shape the child as a responsible person who can take responsibility for his or her decision and make decisions on his or her own. under the conditions of accelerated development , empowerment of political and social choice , the society and schools should prepare young people to make a conscious personal choice , aimed at the creativity and develop responsibility for their decision .
At the same time, it should be noted that the changes are not only socio-economic, but also a cardinal strengthening of the inner mast, "said O. Selteev.
At the same time, he emphasized that the state bodies of the republic continue to clearly cooperate on the implementation of the principles of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Rector of the Academy B. Abidrasilov made a presentation on the topic: "Management schools as partners in the formation of a world-class public service."
he produces all the necessary equipment under the brands tractors, combines, "sonalika" and "solis."
all this already exists in Ukraine, the Kazakh side is interested in the exchange of experience and innovations in these areas, "N. Nazarbayev said.
more than 400 wool seeds imported from Central Asia are stored in the institute's funds.
In turn, the general secretary of the Turkic-speaking party, Dusenen Kaseinov, thanked the Aksara administration for its sincere meeting and participation in the organization of this meeting.
The United Nations deals with universal topical issues by proposing ways to solve them on the basis of the charter of the organization.
5 thousand jobs were created, exports of manufactured products will increase by 35.5 billion tenge, imports will increase by 66.4 billion tenge, gin - by 85 billion tenge, revenues to the budget will come as a tax on 24 billion tenge, "he said.
Everyone remembered when they were in the walls of the school.
at the same time, we were able to protect national interests.
more than 50 types of wood products will be produced there.
to do this, we disseminated relevant information through the media and heard a lot of conversations.	the main requirement for candidates is to finish school of mentorship for certification and admission to the individual meetings .	0,60
Also, the participants of the round table noted the need to organize information tours for representatives of the tourism sector.	also , participants discussed the measures to increase tourist traffic and tourist attractiveness of astana .	0,60
Today, in 769 preschool institutions operating in the region, 53 thousand 982 children are covered.	today , there are 769 preschools with 53,982 children in the region .	0,60
Also during the meeting, the volumes and rules of taxation in the field of tobacco and alcoholic goods in the EAEU were discussed.	the document will be signed by the heads of state of five eaeu countries and will be implemented into their national legislation .	0,60
as part of the program of this visit, the Kazakh diplomat held meetings with the governor of the state of queretaro francisco dominguez, the presidents (akims) of the municipalities of Santiago de queretaro and Allende, deputies of the congress of the state of queretaro.	the kazakh diplomat met with governor of queretaro francisco dominguez , presidents of municipalities ( mayors ) of santiago de querétaro and san miguel de allende cities and deputies of the congress of queretaro .	0,60
in this park formed a fun atmosphere of the disco era.	costumes of promoters and animators are stylized like in 80s .	0,60
The meeting will discuss topical issues in the field of science, education, culture, information, tourism, sports, work with young people, as well as weigh plans for joint events.	the theme of this forum is common values and cultural dialogue , plans for cooperation , taking into account the current situation and priority .	0,60
At the same time, 224396 tenge will be spent on the middle house with gas plants, where a 25-meter gas pipeline is laid.	thus , the total cost will amount to 224 396 tenge .	0,60
The production of transport in the mining industry increased 2.5 times.
During the meeting, the chairmen and judges of the supervisory judicial boards of the Supreme Court, as well as the chairmen of a number of regional and equivalent courts, were informed about the work on the formation of uniform judicial practice.
Speaking at the international forum of the Eurasian economic perspective, the Chairman of the Majilis noted three priority areas that form the basic basis of economic cooperation, including the "economic belt of the silk road" and the Chinese project.
The head of the region noted the need for such industries in rural areas, which positively affects the socio-economic development of the region.
Also during the event, they were informed about the work done by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan to improve the quality of public services provided to the population using information technologies, monitor social payments, analyze the work of social payments in the first half of the year.
The advantage of the competition is that you can show families with great life experience in our country. competition is good because it shows those families that have rich experience .
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the feast of the sacrificial site!
I hope that our youth will really be a patriot, and I have no doubt about the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
today is a great steppe country. "
the construction of this mill complex is also nearing completion.
this map is especially useful for the police, which quickly counteract the hotbeds of criminal actions.	this map is primarily useful for the police .	0,60
this document contains issues of further development of the Baikonur Cosmodrome and the city of Baikonur.	this document covers the operation and development of the cosmodrome  baikonur , " the city of baikonur , the realization of the project on creation of space rocket complex " baiterek . "
where you can practice in space.
if believers and their believers commit criminal acts for this religion, then religion will resist religion.
the sowing campaign was in a difficult natural-climatic state.
Of course, more attention is paid to the institution of the family.
among young specialists, three girls.
Following the meeting, the issue of implementing the budget programs of the region was considered.
The experts of the Working Group also provide technical support for the delimitation and demarcation of the State border of the CIS countries.
The Honorary Consulate of Kazakhstan in the city of plovdiv opens a temporary office in the city of Burgas for summer time.
now there is a reconstruction of the production building.
The meeting discussed the participation of Spain in expo 2017.
I saw him today, walking through the city center, this is a great idea - to conduct an expo and transfer the prize of music TV to the capital.
they make up a third of the 62,000-strong team.
trainings are conducted by qualified specialists of this industry.
the opening ceremony was attended by the akim of the region erik of the sultans.
During the seminar, professional mediators together with education workers considered the following issues of mediation: from quarrels to friendly relations, teenage crime, judicial mediation - the key to resolving disputes, mediation in the field of education, the experience of using mediation in a juvenile court.
in addition, foreign universities are currently available to our military personnel.
The naval sailors of the four countries will carry out artillery firing and test the combat capabilities of their ships.
Over 6 years, the incidence of this disease has decreased 1.6 times, and mortality from it - 2.6 times, "he said.
According to the chairman of the ethnocultural center, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is not an institution, but a political organization representing candidates for legislative bodies of the country.
During the visit, bilateral meetings were held with the governor of jiangtsu province liu xueyong and the mayor of lianyungang zhao xiaojiang.
not to hide that the company cannot avoid taking on yesterday's graduate with low vocational training as a worker.
in the interactive exposition of this park there are reconstructive sites.
qualified specialists of European neurosurgery came to the courses, who share their experience through lectures and discussions, as well as help make decisions on specific issues.
As the deputy noted, the bill needs to develop a list that is not limited to other structures.
Therefore, the main goal of the second five-year plan is to ensure productivity growth by creating the basis for the transition to an innovative economy.
He also noted that the issue of attracting ethnic Kazakhstani athletes to the biathlon federation is being considered.
after that, young people and girls went to the Spassk training center.
including in the fight against organized transnational crime, terrorism and extremism, drug trafficking, as well as in the fight against high technology and other crimes that pose a threat to society.
Of course, there are many such projects on the network, but 3D trips are not fully covered in them.
We visited Kazakhstan Magnitogorsk about five thousand Kazakhs.
K. Mami noted that such measures will increase the general cultural level of trials and increase citizens' confidence in the courts.
He noted that this year 9 levels are planned, two of which have already been completed.
today he has the opportunity to enter any university of the CIS countries without exams.
currently, vegetables and fruits are transported from the southern regions and neighbouring countries at cheap prices.
project participants were issued certificates of completion of training in social entrepreneurship.
The law establishes the status of parliament, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is endowed with constitutional status, which, on the basis of the established quota, can submit their representatives to the meeting and to the Senate, "said the doctor of historical sciences.
As noted at the meeting, the analysis revealed a number of problematic issues that require a comprehensive solution.
from. Dyachenko introduced the guests to the life of the meeting, spoke about the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" to implement five institutional reforms of the head of state, about the work on its legislative support.
In a word, according to the Head of Government of Kazakhstan, the exchange rate of tenge will be formed depending on market demand.
the parties noted an increase in inter-parliamentary relations, dynamic growth within the framework of deputy friendship groups.
the parties discussed a number of issues requiring the assistance of local authorities.
Preparation for cleaning is underway.
does not allow heat, low heat insulation, there is no way to spend the night with gas condensates from the outside.
most of the work is carried out by the regional community of hunters and fishermen, "kochubey, etc." and "joyful m.," private economy "energy," "March-sim," "kandula" and "tupar."
Among the best graduates of Nazarbayev University is a student of 2015 in the gpa 4.0 aisulu aitbekova cohort - the holder of a scholarship of the President of Kazakhstan for a student research grant on chevron.
in addition, enhanced and simplified due diligence measures are established.
thus increasing the interest of the parties in concluding collective agreements and agreements that contribute to the development of unionization practices.
Regarding the industrialization map, the members of the coordinating council were offered projects to increase the production capacity of the cathode copper production plant Kounradskaya Copper Company LLP and modernize the machine-building production of Karaganda Foundry and Machine-Building Plant, a branch of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
it will be difficult, because other states want to join this troika.
During the visit, the rector of the Academy of Bolatbek Abdrasylov met with the executive director of the Agency for Quality Assurance of Higher Education Stephen Jackson.
therefore, we support the launching of procedures aimed at the membership of India and Pakistan in the organization.
S. Sargsyan noted that the forum serves as a driving force and humanitarian cooperation in all spheres.
the second - expanding the competence of the authorized body in the field of environmental protection, the third - adjusting the monitoring system of reporting, improving the distribution of quotas for greenhouse gas emissions, "the vice minister added.
Today, the new economic policy proposed by the head of state poses new demands.	the ministry of education and science has made up a plan for gradual transition to a new content of secondary education .	0,60
we know that Ha turns 20 years old, in 20 years we have achieved many successes, there are common views.	we all know that this year the apk marks the 20th anniversary .	0,60
To a meeting with the head of the region Daniil Akhmetov came representatives of companies that specialize in agriculture, are engaged in the manufacture of equipment for processing milk and meat.	head of the region danial akhmetov met with representatives of companies that deal with crops breeding , milk and meat processing equipment .	0,60
According to him, Com. A. Baitursynova expects close cooperation with enterprises.	the partnership with russian universities that are leading the top rankings in the world is not excluded ,  a. kovalyov said .
The action will end on August 24 in the growth city.
The Code clarifies the standards for the activities of civil servants.
But the fluid in the intestine is restored immediately after dissolution, "the report said.
Land is actively preparing for the 2016 campaign.
It is noted that as part of the signed memorandum, it is planned to hear issues of integrating the automated booking system on the expo2017astana.com website and conduct a joint pr-campaign.
representatives of the private sector asked their questions and shared their thoughts in this area.
funds accumulated in the future will go to the formation of a balalra.
after explanatory work, the road workers handed out booklets to drivers urging them to comply with traffic rules and not to increase speed.
The Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan is the first women's organization in the country.
in addition, the volume of state support within the framework of the "green basket" can be indicated without any restrictions.
the UN Secretary General in his speech spoke about extremist groups using religion as a means against humanity.
did not succeed in the women's team tournament, angelina mishuka and jia aidarkhanov took third place, andrei frolov, Vladimir pochivalov and Aleksan Yeshchenko achieved a similar result in men.
The use of natural resources in the order of local maintenance continued until January 1, 2021.
I found in the rented building and raw materials necessary for the products, and in order for the products to be high-quality and cheap, you need a strong, smart tool that will work in the interval before it turns into a finished product.
In addition, the judges of the regional court discussed with the judges the article of the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Reform for Good and Good," published on July 1 in the newspaper "Kazakhstanskaya Pravda," and also expressed support for the national commission and familiarized with the innovations that should be introduced into the judicial system in the near future.
In turn, the involvement of large transnational corporations is one of the goals set by the head of state.
all acquired blood factors have passed state registration in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in particular, these are "tank biathlon," "air darts" and "Caspian sea" (sea biathlon).
most of the questions are logical, "he said.
the raw material of soda ash, coming only from outside, is planned to be produced in our region in the future together with the white "Araltuz."
it is planned that guests of the exhibition will visit not only the capital, but also other regions of Kazakhstan.
Promotion measures are carried out on a competitive basis in a special order and are selected for this person, and most importantly, everything is carried out according to the requirements of the meritocracy. the adoption of a career model suggests that career will go from the lowest positions , that is the next step on the career ladder will make a worthy man , everything will be based on the principle of meritocracy .
89 steps - development and implementation of the national project "bright future."
It is worth noting that training on the sports ground develops the will, endurance and coherence of the younger generation, a combination of movements, the desire for a healthy lifestyle.
At the 23rd session of the KHA, the head of state set the task for the Kazakhstani people to create a nation of the future.	deputy chairman of the apk believes that for the years of independence kazakhstan worked to create a nation of the common future .	0,60
but this reduces quality.	the factory does not want to lose the trust of customers .	0,60
prevention of corruption, combating trafficking in persons, application of the Aarhus Convention by courts.	there are many joint projects in the field of prevention of corruption , human trafficking combating .	0,60
Akim also spoke about establishing relations with border cities of such states as China, Russia.	akim noted the importance of relationships with the neighboring cities of neighboring countries , such as china , russia and others .	0,60
on the discovery of its historical role and the contribution of the country's inhabitants to raising the cultural and spiritual level, friendship of peoples.	the main purpose is to familiarize the public with the history of the kazakh khanate , to disclose its historical role in the world , the cultural and spiritual life of the country , to strengthen patriotism and unity of the people .	0,60
this flight is operated twice a week.	this can be considered as a result of work with the embassy of georgia in the republic of kazakhstan .	0,60
in order to create special attractive conditions, the center provides for a different tax, currency, visa regime, as well as a regime for attracting foreign labor.	in order to create an attractive environment for investment it is planned to establish a special tax , currency , visa regime .	0,60
ore transportation along the railway route allows you to supply ores from remote regions and use the Varvarinsky plant as a processing hub.
your high professional and personal qualities, a keen relative and managerial talent made it possible to make carefully thought out effective decisions even in the most difficult moments of the situation.	israeli president reuven rivlin thanked nursultan nazarbayev for his efforts to ensure global peace and mutual understanding , as well as the development of friendly relations between kazakhstan and israel .	0,60
From that date, Kazakhstan is obliged to fulfil its obligations, including on levels of import customs duties.	on that date kazakhstan will be obliged to fulfill the commitments , including on levels of import duties .	0,60
The Secretary-General noted that the multidisciplinary activities of the organization not only increase cultural ties, but also contribute to the development of comprehensive scientific research of Turkic peoples in the field of history, culture, literature, art.	the secretary-general stressed that the multidisciplinary activities of the organization not only enhance cultural exchange and cooperation , but also the development of integrated research in the sphere of history , culture , literature and art of turkic peoples .	0,60
Document on the implementation of joint projects aimed at training relevant specialists, conducting joint research, development and development work in relevant areas was signed as part of events dedicated to the World Standards Day, organized by the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan	the document provides joint projects aimed at training the relevant specialists , joint research , and development work on the topical areas .	0,60
therefore, state support is needed in terms of protecting business interests, as well as supporting investment projects.	the conference discussed the kazakhstan market , restrictions to import polyethylene and polypropylene that does not meet safety requirements , a marketing policy .	0,60
aa. Idrissov expressed confidence that the conference held in the capital will be a serious platform for the exchange of views and experience of the public sector and non-governmental organizations in the fight against violent extremism.	ye.idrissov expressed confidence that conference holding in astana will be a good platform for exchange of views and experiences between the public sector and non-governmental organizations to counter violent extremism .	0,60
negotiations were held in 4 main areas.	the negotiation process proceeded in four main areas .	0,60
In third place were M.Zhumabaev and Takibaev from Zhambyl districts, in second place were residents of the Timiryazevsky district, Kusain families from Sosnovsky and Shalakyn districts.	third place was shared by the family of takibayev from m.zhumabayev district and the family of adam from zhambyl district , the second place - the family of sosnovsky ( timiryazev district ) and the kusainovs ( shal akyn district ) .	0,60
thousands of hectares of pastures, hayfields.	more than two decades have been spent on its revival .	0,60
High comfort in accordance with category 4 stars provides for the improvement of the territory, technical provision of equipment and full technical equipment of the number of rooms.	according to 4-star , increased comfort provides landscaping , technical equipping and full technical provision of room fund .	0,60
According to 10 inspections, the land was deregistered due to the lack of a subject.	there are 23 violating the land legislation ; without violations - 15 ; 10 were removed from the register due to the lack of the audited entity .	0,60
The issue of establishing financial mechanisms within Shu has long been on the agenda.
Throughout 2014, the code was one of the widely discussed bills, which showed that 95% of cases going to court are civil and administrative, "said D. Abdugaliev.
cyber technology and its penetration into society have created new challenges for public security.
in addition, increased requirements for such procurement.
Recall that Kazakhstan has been a member of the international exhibition bureau since 1997 and has been participating in expo-exhibitions since 2005.
As the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, the poetess "loved every person as her brother, is a symbol of today's tolerance.
D. Amberdiev told the interlocutor that the upcoming forum will be devoted to the forecast of the development of world energy through the lens of geopolitical relations, issues of expanding the resource base, diversifying energy supply routes, as well as issues of Kazakhstan's competitiveness in floating demand and supply.
At our meeting, the issues of intensifying relations between our countries, increasing the state of friendship and trust were considered. mohammad ashraf ghani , it is the first time you visit kazakhstan .
representatives of our religious associations should be able to correctly interpret the sacred inscriptions of young people and thus find a common language.
As T.Balykbayev noted, youth of different bodies can participate in these forums.
At the same time, it is planned to improve and expand the existing non-financial state support provided to small and medium-sized businesses by improving the quality of their content and the mechanism for providing, introducing international best practices and raising awareness.
most of them are special projects.
The harmonization of the memorandum is an important and necessary process for the training of highly qualified specialists with theoretical and practical skills in various sectors of the economy, since standardization is important for the creation of a safe environment for work, life, health and the preservation of the environment.
The meeting participants noted that the relevance of these issues raises the need to improve legislation and requires the exchange of experience, including official communication on Shu.
young firefighting officers also participated as observers.
this document is aimed at the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Optimization and Automation of Public Services in the Social and Labor Sphere."
The construction of EXPO-2017 is on schedule, for some reasons the construction in some places is temporarily suspended. construction expo 2017 is on schedule .
In the first five months of 2015, the district and equivalent courts received 166,314 cases of administrative offenses, including 156,990 cases with the issuance of judicial acts, the report said.
I graduated from the Faculty of Journalism of Excavations named after al-Farabi and today I work as the host of the morning program of the Almaty television channel.
upon arrival at height, they go to their feet.
teams are very strong and worthy of each other, but we came to this competition for victory.
- I often meet with colleagues who, in their activities, sue constitutional justice.
I often meet with colleagues who, in their activities, sue constitutional justice. by the nature of my activities i often meet with colleagues from the bodies of constitutional justice , constitutional control of other countries .
The Ambassador wished the students to successfully pass the upcoming exams and drew attention to the fact that the knowledge gained is used to further strengthen relations between Kazakhstan and the two countries.
According to Ruslan Tregali, Deputy Head of the Department of Housing and Communal Services, Passenger Transport and Highways of Aktobe, this year in the village of Zarechny overhaul of the roads of Hero of the Soviet Union Street named after Alexander gutsalo, preparatory work has begun to repair the roads of Heroes of the Soviet Union and Vasily Kozenkov.
It is worth noting that this year, from each hectare of sugar beet crops, farmers receive 700-750 centners of the crop.
the history and culture of any people, including Kazakh, is closely connected with the history of neighboring peoples and developed in interaction with these peoples.
the large Almaty ring road will be toll.
The importance of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the observance of interethnic harmony, "the statement said.
water pipes are brought to the houses.
in particular, since most of the corruption offences established by the current legislation are formal and disciplinary in nature and do not provide for material benefits, the bill introduces new manifestations of corruption offences.
It was also noted that the construction of the exhibition facilities is in accordance with the schedule, the acord said.
In addition, the Prince of Fret noted the relevance of the theme of the fest "expo-2017" "energy of the future."
The issue of subsidies to support productivity in livestock production is proposed to be revised only in 2017 with discussion in 2016.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of the agreements reached at the level of the heads of state, increasing the volume of bilateral investments, as well as the implementation of the goals to increase the cargo transportation of container trains following the Almaty-Liangan route and transiting through Kazakhstan to other states of Central Asia and Europe.
In order to implement the order of the Head of State to ensure 100% coverage of preschool education and education of children of preschool age (3-6 years), significant work is being carried out in the region by 2020.
That is, the telecom operator is supposed to be held accountable for violating the rules of the security certificate, for violating the procedure for providing services over the Internet and access to the Internet, "added a member of the Gulnar Seitmaganbetova social and cultural development committee.
At the event, the head of the all-Russian department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption galymbek dossiers spoke.
In 2014, knowledge of English in the ielts system increased from 3 to 4 points.	it is also one of the main areas to be improved in terms of  bolashak " program .
in that context, it was important to mobilize civil society and the State to achieve maximum results.
The Minister of Customs Cooperation of the EEC noted that the draft Customs Code of the EAEU should develop and introduce a norm for providing preliminary information in the form of an electronic document.
The forum is attended by more than 200 specialists in the field of dog technology.
The success of the company can be confirmed by the confidence of thousands of consumers in this direction, the release in 2011 of fish products by the company, the introduction of a quality 22000-2006 quality management system and a quality management system for fish processing and fish products st kr iso 9001-2009, as well as the purchase of new equipment.
These are 100 concrete steps, "said the head of the service of international and national programs of the library of the leader of the nation.
in addition, residential buildings of military personnel living in military camps are being repaired.
implement them in cities and areas.
During the briefing, the participants of the event were informed about the state and prospects for the development of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, priority areas of Kazakhstan.
Delphic games are annual competitions of young specialists in the field of art that require modern requirements.
akimat prepared a running strip for 3.5 km.
we have no doubt that all budgetary obligations will be fully repaid before the end of the year. we don 't have doubts the budgetary obligations will be financed .
contest participants and organizers will take part in the press conference.
our relations are based on strong cooperation both at the state level and at the level of both capitals.	the meeting was carried out in the framework of mr.dzhaksybekov 's visit to the latvian capital , the press service of astana akimat reported .	0,61
In turn, the ambassador said that Spain should participate in the exhibition, and the delay in confirming may be due to the upcoming parliamentary elections, after which a new government will be appointed.	the ambassador said that spain will participate in the exhibition and the delay confirmation , most likely related to the upcoming elections to the parliament .	0,61
relations between Kazakhstan and Russia are characterized by dynamic development in various areas.	development of interregional cooperation of kazakhstan and russia , ongoing monitoring of the kazakh-russian projects in the agricultural sector .	0,61
if we talk about increasing heat prices, then this can increase by 20%.	speaking about the upcoming price for heat , it will rise approximately to 20 % , according to preliminary calculations , the payment for one-bedroom apartment will increase by 930 tenge , for two-bedroom - 1350 tenge , for three-room - 1800 tenge .	0,61
during these five years, it is necessary to cover everything and create a national brand by 2020, "he said.
the author of the idea is the Italian artist Manfredi.
products worth 75 billion tenge will be produced here.
in most cases, labor relations between the employer and the employee will be carried out in accordance with the rules of self-regulation with strengthening the potential of collective agreements and mutual agreement in the areas of recruitment, movement of personnel, dismissal of the employee, working time, working conditions and remuneration, "he said.
under these conditions, unity of people, calm and cohesion in the country are necessary, which other countries cannot achieve.
By the end of the year, we plan to provide another 4 thousand apartments, and if you watch the entire program, then by 2020, the Baiterek holding has the task of providing apartments to 29 thousand families.
shift education system in an educational institution.
the second direction is considered transit potential.
many consultations are provided by telephone.
their total experience is 530 years.
p. Gaiduk shared state experience in the modernization of the public service and the formation of professional diplomatic personnel.
As noted in the message, this agreement will contribute to the development of trade between China and the member states of the union.
For uninterrupted supply of thermal energy within the framework of reconstruction and modernization of engineering networks in the capital Mayor's Office of Astana in 2015 the reconstruction of 2060 m of heating lines was carried out, including tim-5, tum-18, tum-50, tum-36.
At the same time, he noted that this is the first time in Kazakhstan, but the natural specifics are similar to Armenia.
The 133rd Assembly will operate until October 21.
to train legionnaires.
One of these facilities is a kindergarten, which has been under construction by the contracting institution of Kazpromstroycruppe LLP in the village of Kargaly since June of this year.
therefore, coaches have high hopes for his future.
they are implemented in single-industry towns and the third project is implemented in the free economic zone "capital - new city."
the capital actually forms the capital's culture. " Jaksybekov.
the main prize of the competition was won by the Ministry of Defense, and the first place was taken by the State Security Service, the second by the Prosecutor General's Office, the third by the Public Service and Anti-Corruption Agency and the Supreme Court.
As the deputy director for scientific work of the National Museum of Kazakhstan noted, the main law is preserved as the main document aimed at our development.
The peasant farm, formed in 1998, has only 4 hectares of land.
Retired judges who have at least fifteen years of judicial service and who have reached the retirement age established by law.
at one of the meetings we talked about the prayer of the son of Zhanibek Khan.
Preliminary results of the national modernization commission aimed at implementing five institutional reforms were also presented.
these measures should be worked out today.
an alley of rear workers will be created in Victory Park.
in addition, an education tour can go to the UK.
The laundry wing speaks of the centuries-old desire of the multinational people of Kazakhstan to create a powerful and prosperous state.
In recent years, a number of business meetings have been held between state bodies and entrepreneurs of Iran and Mangistau region, aimed at the effective use of the opportunities of trade, economic, scientific and technical industries, "said akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev.
Recall that the host city of the Olympics-2022 will be announced on July 31 after the vote of the IOC members.
The case of the withdrawal of the troops of nature was also completed, you began negotiations with the opposition.
In addition, the armed forces of Kazakhstan also buy honey from us, "said A. Nurtazin.
the implementation of these investment projects will increase the production of primary aluminum by 140 thousand tons per year, as well as update the power unit in the city of aksu.
If we talk about the return of confidence in tenge, then, first of all, we must return the confidence of the population in the National Bank. the first - communications policy .
Yes, as you know, this year the country celebrates the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. you know that this year the country celebrates the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
By the bill, the Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments to the Budget" adds to the new type of fee - in terms of introducing a fee for issuing and extending permission to attract foreign labor in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Of course, in some States one should not look at the existence of persecution related to their religious views.
they really took care of me, paid a lot of attention.
from now on, a new wave of life begins in your lives.
He also expressed confidence that athletes who will be brought up in the wellness complex opened today will be able to surpass the honor of the country.
Due to the emergence of entities providing dubious services, deceiving entrepreneurs in issuing certificates of conformity, declarations of compliance of the customs union, joint work with customs and other interested authorities is intensified.
Chairman of the Aerospace Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan Talgat Musabayev and Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia Yuri Borisov signed an agreement between the governments of the two countries on the procedure for cooperation in launching missiles from the Dombrovsky position area using a land plot on the territory of Kazakhstan as a drop area of ​ ​ separated missile parts.
startup balashak "on one of the republican television channels, where it is planned to show the project in the format of a reality show.
In terms of technological priorities, most of the grants are in the field of information and communication technologies, one grant focuses on the field of advanced technologies in the field of engineering, including alternative energy and the use of new materials.
Representatives of the World Bank, the international labour organization and employees of private companies take part in it.
such social assistance is also provided to Oralmans who have moved from one region of the country to another, as determined by the Government.	upon receipt of a permit for permanent residence now they will not confirm their ability to pay , unlike other foreigners .	0,61
the camp administration has developed cultural and mass entertainment programs, hiking, sports competitions, theatrical productions, video screenings and thematic dances.	there are equipped sports courts , indoor club , furnished beach area , hobby groups .	0,61
in particular, for the effective use of land for agricultural purposes, it is envisaged to sell it to private property through an auction.	public lands are not involved in market turnover ,  minister of national economy yerbolat dossayev said presenting the bill .
Recall that the republican competition of the best social projects, implemented in Kazakhstan, was first held in the capital in 2013.
Recall that the Asian powerlifting championship among athletes with musculoskeletal system damage will be held in Almaty from July 26 to 30.
all these measures will reduce energy costs and demand. all these measures will reduce demand and energy costs .
however, regional akimats are trying not to disclose this information.
after the reconstruction of the Astana-temirtau highway expands into 4 lanes and belongs to the technical category.
the role of religion in society may be different.
Cheers soaring in a great space symbolizes the spirit of the freedom-loving pumpkin of Kazakhstan, the breadth of the soul of the Kazakh people.
As a member of the council noted, every citizen must respect the laws of the state and recognize the value of the constitution.
And on November 14, the first international youth forum "Green Bridge - a platform of innovative opportunities" will be held.
we are witnesses to a wonderful event.	the funds were allocated from the republican budget .	0,61
Therefore, when we chaired the capital, we paid great attention to these issues and called for the preparation of a document "the path to tolerance in the new decade," within which the principles of cooperation between the leading religions of the world, especially Islam and Christian religions, were indicated, "he said.
dog editors began to appear in our company, as part of the transformation program, dog architectors appear.
Prommashkopekt is a Kazakhstani factory for the manufacture of a turning device and wheels of railway transport, launched in 2010 as part of FIIR.
During the round table, the head of the department of anti-corruption literacy and interaction with the public of the department, A. Batyrbayev, explained aspects of the first institutional reform of the national plan "100 concrete steps" - the creation of a professional state apparatus capable of providing public services and implementing economic programs at a high level.
As the expert noted, one of the priority areas is the attraction of foreign investors in the manufacturing industry.
The peacekeeping unit of Kazakhstan, together with the contingents of the Armenian, Belarusian, Kyrgyz and Russian armed forces, worked out issues of patrolling the area, repelling the attack of illegal armed groups, neutralizing improvised explosive devices and evacuating the wounded, and also carried out the blocking and disarmament of "militants" with the further destruction of their preparatory camp.
200 additional jobs will be created.
this edition consists of three sections.
According to the deputy, remuneration will be provided on the basis of proposals of the regional coordinating committee on interethnic relations.
bills are sent for consideration by the chamber.
At the first meeting of the council, a number of rectors spoke.
There are about 8 thousand tribal sheep.
only this achievement allowed local residents to travel on long roads.
photos can be posted on Instagram and VKontakte.
Mom did not finish her studies at a pedological institute, left halfway and focused on raising children.
He noted the relevance of the theme of the exhibition "energy of the future" and expressed confidence that it will contribute to the exchange of experience in the field of "green" technologies.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 13.08.2015 opened 159 savings accounts on legalization of the money for total amount of 74.6 billion tenges including withdrawn from the savings account of 29.2 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of charge for legalization of money.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 17.08.2015 opened 159 savings accounts on legalization of the money for total amount of 74.6 billion tenges including withdrawn from the savings account of 29.2 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of charge for legalization of money.
At the same time, he noted that modern technologies are developing rapidly, and in some regions they are developing very quickly.
this educational institution mainly studies in technical, oil and gas, food specialties.
the first relates to the modernization of the procedure for entering the public service.
after explanatory work, the road workers distributed to the drivers booklets and comments urging not to steal the car in a tired or drunk state.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 08.08.2015 opened 154 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 73.9 billion tenges, including for legalization of money - 29.1 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting. according to the national bank of kazakhstan , as of august 08 , 2015 the second-tier banks have opened 154 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 73.9 billion tenge , including withdrawn from saving accounts - 29.1 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 2.9 billion tenge of fee for the legalization of money .
the more any state has, the more family traditions, the more adults, the stronger the family will be.	the more traditions in the family , coming from the ancestors , parents , older generation , the stronger the family .	0,61
access to foreign markets will be open for domestic enterprises, and consumers will have wide opportunities in choosing goods and services.	this will provide access to foreign markets , and consumers will have a greater choice of goods and services .	0,61
the zone was also modernized in the hospital complex - 25 pyramidal poplars were planted, 16 pines of the city polyclinic were planted.	as  akmola media ortalygy " described , in the territory near the railway station there will be an apple orchard .
In turn, the head of the city got acquainted with the work of the intellectual contact center of the akimat of the city, aimed at improving the quality of the akimat's activities.
The working visit of the Deputy Prime Minister ended with a visit to the regional hospital and a number of educational and sports facilities in Aktau.
In turn, this will increase confidence in the grain industry and investment attractiveness, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
I am sure that we will cope with these tasks with honor.
this is too politicizing even when making professional decisions. it politicizes the decision even for those cases when you need professional management without any policy .
the main purpose of the bill is to simplify the rules of public procurement, reduce corruption risks, as well as protect the rights and legitimate interests of potential suppliers and increase the responsibility of parties involved in public procurement.
countries that today intend to build a nuclear power plant or are considering such a path can be sure that, despite any fluctuations in the uranium market, there is an opportunity to acquire less enriched uranium. countries , intending to build nuclear power plants , have the opportunity to buy low-enriched uranium .
because in order to teach students the basics of security, it is necessary to improve their knowledge in this area.
Today we unite the main IT specialists, and we are talking about the problems that arise in this matter, "said D. Tuganov.
at the meeting, representatives of Kazavtodor noted that when developing a paid strategy in Kazakhstan, they are considering the possibility of involving the Hungarian company as an independent expert.
In 1992, meetings between Turkic-speaking states began.
this practice will allow him to correctly master, understand his experience in the courts.	currently , learning in master 's degree is 2 years , including a period of practical internship of judges - 3 months .	0,61
the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Lithuanian Republic	this provision also applies to persons who , after entering the territory of the requesting state have been deprived or renounced citizenship of the requesting state and not acquired citizenship of the requested state or third country .	0,61
he will be monitored by domestic specialists.	this is a terminal device that will monitor local experts .	0,61
energy efficiency not only in manufacturing and industry, but also in industry.	energy intensity is formed not only in the production sector and industry , but also in housing and communal services .	0,61
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 05.09.2015 opened 163 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 75.5 billion tenges, including for legalization of money - 29.2 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting.	according to national bank of kazakhstan , as of september 5 , 2015 the second-tier banks have opened 163 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 75.5 billion tenge , including withdrawn from saving accounts - 29.2 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 2.9 billion tenge of fee for the legalization of money .	0,61
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 31.08.2015 opened 151 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 73.8 billion tenges, including for legalization of money - 29.1 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting. according to the national bank of kazakhstan , as of july 31 , 2015 the second-tier banks have opened 151 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 73.8 billion tenge , including withdrawn from saving accounts - 28.9 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 2.9 billion tenge of fee for the legalization of money .
the educational institution has a sports and recreation unit consisting of two gyms.
For example, we see information about the country where the missile attack was launched.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the consultations the foreign ministries of the two countries discussed the current state and prospects of Kazakh-British cooperation, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
Of the 124,346 people, 87,783 graduates, or 94.4%, applied for an agent.
He also got acquainted with the programs "100 concrete steps," "Nұr zhol," "Expo-2017," "Kazakhstan-2050," and also watched a feature film about the capital.
The Patriot Forum opens the way to the opening of the national kha project "Big Family."
As noted the MFA of RK, Kazakhstan allowing to place bank of low-enriched uranium in the territory promotes destruction of mass weapon, forms mechanisms of safety and reliability during nuclear production.
Thus, they will be able to see the quality of textbooks and contribute to their more effective work, "said S. Nusupov.
In the meantime, work continues in Moscow to transport the necessary parts from a closed plant.
At the same time, Siksanova noted that the conference will be useful for its participants in all respects.
the family is large, talented and hardworking, as well as in heredity, "he said.
on the stage of our theaters, productions are staged that promote universal human values ​ ​ - they propagate love for the homeland, patriotism, brotherhood. the theaters show human values - a love for country , patriotism .
however, recently, in addition to legal labour migration, the fight against illegal labour migration and abuse of refugee status has become relevant.
the main migration exchange in the country takes place with the CIS states.
in addition, amendments will be made to the Water Code and the Code of Administrative Offences.
the center carries out significant work to implement the problem of trilingualism, primarily among civil servants. "
tensions in the common customs and economic space.
Currently, we are faced with a huge, arduous and responsible work to fulfill the instructions of the head of state.	according to him , the meeting was attended by 44 deputies out of 47 from the senate and 104 of 107 deputies from the majilis .	0,61
therefore, this issue is very important, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The sports program included 13 winter sports.
The sides discussed the prospects of further deepening the partnership in all areas of Kazakh-Japanese cooperation.
At the end of the meeting, the need was voiced for a constant, comprehensive explanation of the antimonopoly regulation and competition policy of the eeo, more advocacy of what responsibility the organization provides in case of violation of competition and its requirements, work in cooperation of Kazakhstan and on competition and antimonopoly regulation.
today is the third day.
During the meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Vietnam R. Zhoshybayev noted that the Kazakh side highly appreciates the achievements of the state leadership on the path of large-scale changes in Vietnamese society, socio-economic reforms and the formation of a state aimed at the market economy.
It is planned that as part of the business forum, a teleconference will be held to launch the first exploration mine at the Satpayev site in the Ataru region.
This year, competitions in honor of the honored trainer of the USSR karakoz abdallayev were held for the 36th time.
K.Tokayev thanked the O.Spencer for many years of fruitful work for the benefit of the Assembly in connection with the recent expiration of the term of office of the Secretary-General.
it will become the core of Kazakhstan's financial infrastructure, and in the future will become a financial hub for all Central Asian regions.
tasks are performed in various ways in difficult conditions with the use of weapons engineering equipment depending on the standard purpose.
According to him, last year, through PPP mechanisms, a platform was created for the private sector to play a significant role in the country's economy.
In addition, the declaration noted the issue of ensuring equal respect for world and traditional religions.
over the next five days, entrepreneurs received on-site listening to opinions about their projects from experienced doctors.
he stopped at the historical stages of temirtau formation.
and these cars are environmentally friendly.
As a speaker, we invite people who are directly related to the development of the capital to devote their lives to the formation of the city. we invite people who are directly involved in the formation of global and local image of the capital .
Container traffic has increased in six months.
Diploma of Honorary Doctor of Sciences received the famous Kazakh violinist from the Presidential University of Dankuk.
Today, young people will be noticed by high-level coaches of the national team and come up with sides to further improve their skills.
it will continue, "he said.
the partnership plans to purchase raw materials in the private sector and supply finished products (yogurts and cheeses) to the markets of Astana, Almaty, Karaganda.
today is your last days at university, but we are beginning to have a bright future. i would like to say that this is not just the last day at the university .
The City Planning Council of Almaty approved the construction of a facility for the sale of cars with underground parking in the Semipalatinsk district.
private enterprise entities.
a number of States and non-governmental organizations had already invested in the magate project at that time. a number of states and non-governmental organizations have already allocated funds to the iaea .
B. Baibek noted that in the doctrine of the "Nұr Otan" party, the activities of citizens are determined by the fruitful factor of prosperity of economic growth, based on the development of successful business in order to improve the quality of life of the state, all Kazakhstanis, the press service of the party reports.
In addition, in order to create a regulatory legal framework for the electronic sale of travel documents, as in air transport, additions are provided to the tax code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the concept of boarding pass (a document certifying the fact of boarding a passenger on a train) and the procedure for its application in the new version of the rules for the transportation of passengers, hand luggage and baggage.
As Secretary of Aktobe of the regional maslikhat noted in his speech, important qualities prevail in our country - such factors as multinational and interethnic harmony of Kazakhstan, and our constitution, which has been held for 20 years, indicates that this principle is effectively implemented.
In turn, errol franc stuve thanked the Kazakh side for its support in organizing the conference and expressed confidence that this dialogue platform will contribute to a constructive solution to the further development of the act sphere of social security.
Today, Kazakh universities cooperate with more than 30 American centers of education and science.
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 17.08.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.0 billion tenge.
additional medical examination is provided, that is, drug testing, laboratory studies for hepatitis and tuberculosis.
having significantly improved the performance of the national unified testing, the Kyzylorda region took 5th place in the republic.
The head of the military institute thanked the active cadets and wished them further victories.
and the unique theatrical aquarium will not leave anyone indifferent.
diving exercises are provided for by a course of combat training.
the project is implemented within the framework of the second five-year plan of industrialization through funding from the national fund.
T. As Nikolic noted, Serbia is becoming a real partner of Kazakhstan in the field of investment.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, the meeting discussed the creation of a tourist cluster in the center of South Kazakhstan region.
According to the report, as of October 25, 2015, according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 3.1 billion tenge.
According to A. Mamytbekov, due to the lack of cheap leasing of equipment, farmers will incur more costs than they receive from subsidies per hectare.
bakytzhan sagintayev and zhang gaoli discussed the possibility of signing a cross-border cooperation program for 2015-2020 and the possibility of creating an interregional forum between Kazakhstan and China.
It should be noted that the law will be published next week.
The head of the region first visited thousands of fish factories.
Khan tent is a surprise in the architectural art of the capital.
Recall that Teacher's Day in Kazakhstan is celebrated on the first Sunday of October.
The main requirement in evaluating projects is to increase the quality and standard of living of the population through entrepreneurship.
such visits are organized annually and are bilateral in the framework of cooperation between defense departments.
exhibits are vivid witnesses to the life of that time, the economy and the structure of that time.
Also, during his visit to the UAR, the head of the Kazakh delegation took part in the opening ceremony of the honorary consulate of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Johannesburg.
thirdly, the head of state instructed to fully implement the chicken program by 2020.
Since the beginning of the year, 34 job fairs have been held, as a result of which 682 people have been employed, 456 people have been sent to public works.
In general, the participants of the event discussed the introduction of information systems by the prosecutors general, the experience of combating crime and corruption.
By the way, when alienating property, special conditions are provided for the buyer: observance of the specialization of objects and activities, preservation of workers' jobs.
The event was also attended by heads of railway administrations of Bulgaria, Georgia, Latvia, Finland - members of the associated councils.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 24.08.2015 opened 161 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 74.7 billion tenges, including for legalization of money, withdrawn from the savings account with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks as of 28.08.2015 opened 161 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 74.7 billion tenge, including for legalization of money with payment to the budget of 2.9 billion tenge withdrawn from the savings account of 29.2 billion tenge.
He reported that in 2016 the construction of a section of the land road "Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the city of Orenburg" will begin, as well as plans for the construction of the curial road "Astrakhan-Tambov-Moscow."
therefore, the German people always remember what they have done to them, and highly appreciate the contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev to it. "
today's forum is an effective platform for mutual cooperation.
During the conversation, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Ayymbetov's upcoming visit to space is a bright event that will give impetus to the further development of the domestic space industry and serve to strengthen Kazakhstan's image in the international arena.
Currently, new tours are being prepared in other regions of Kazakhstan, existing tours are being improved.	in addition , we now have active work on placing them on the main international portals .	0,61
the third nomination of the national competition is "the best inventive solution of the year."
At the same time, the akimats need to effectively use the necessary tools and attract sponsors, "said B. Saparbayev.
we will continue this trend.
then engaged in military sambo in Kostanay.
Such a system is being introduced at a military university for the first time, "the report said.
residents retain this beauty on the pages of the drawings.
twice hero of the Soviet Union T. Note that the military institute of the Bigeldinov Air Defense Forces is the only university in the Central Asian region that trains qualified pilots, mechanical engineers, navigators, radio engineers.
Deputy Governor of Astana Nuraly Aliyev and Deputy Chairman of the Board of National Managing Holding Baiterek JSC signed a memorandum between the Governor's Office and Baiterek.
Payment sizes are set according to these requirements.
The main topic of the meeting was the draft new law on Kazakhstan.
then I was fond of painting portraits of heads of state.
The Governments of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Serbia have established international road transport, as well as signed the concept of double taxation and tax evasion.
Complaints and appeals received by the center will also be analyzed, as a result of which a rating of medical institutions in the capital will be displayed quarterly.
If this agreement comes into force, then we will decide the issue of monthly export of pension savings, "said S. Zhakupova.
Within the framework of the signed agreements, it is planned to build sports clubs, playgrounds, preschool institutions and provide assistance to people with a low social level.
As the best work of mankind of the 20th century, the organization must show its uniqueness in the future.
The head of state paid special attention to issues of national worldview and uniformity of the population.
Yuri Oxamite expressed surprise at this positive news.
According to him, these indicators affect Kazakhstan's position on the global competitiveness index, which is not in question.
Ms. A. Turs expressed gratitude for the informative exchange of views during the meeting, as well as for the cooperation and active cooperation achieved in the field of human rights protection.
one of the oldest theaters with the san carlo ballet "life" comes to us. "
previously, to send coal to the proper place, the order had to be sent not only to the station releasing the cargo, but also to the Pavlodar branch of the road.	it also provides the new convenient service  personal account for service payment . "
Besides, the member of KHA noted that "The m g_l_k ate inclusion of values" in the school program will become a basis for implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
It is worth noting that at the end of May the Kazakhstani servicemen showed excellent training within the framework of the intensive inspection of the collective rapid response forces, which took place at the Harbmaidon training ground in the Republic of Tajikistan.
The same with meat, "said the CEO.
Issues of internal procedures related to the ratification of the country's accession package were also raised.
in particular, since most of the corruption offences established by the current legislation are formal and disciplinary in nature and do not provide for material benefits, the bill introduces new manifestations of corruption offences.
The plans include the opening of a kindergarten for 280 places in reeds.
This year 4 clinics will be commissioned, in the future the construction of another 2 clinics will be completed.
it clearly says what to do now.
actively participate in what is happening in the country.
Currently, the tax code implements appropriate measures to introduce tax incentives for geological research and exploration, "said the Vice Minister.
Through this map, citizens can view all plots located in the Almaty region, the boundaries of the area, the purposes of their use and other basic cadastral data.
During the meeting, the agenda of the planned meeting was discussed, which is a jubilee and dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the creation of coordinating councils of prosecutors general of the CIS states.
Representatives of Vietnamese companies and local hospitals showed great interest in domestic medical equipment and X-ray equipment.
So, before the establishment of the State Academic Musical and Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev, the ceremony of awarding prizes to veterans and employees of the TZHK took place.
ex-husband refuses to pay child support.
construction is taking place on time, but there are issues of improvement, construction of engineering networks.
67 forms - individuals, 63 forms - legal entities.
the company is engaged in the development and manufacture of metal for metal structures.
but today the situation is improving.
Odillia came to the prince's ball, not different from dressed, but she was not so gentle and shy, but an imitator.
There is also a development on the effective use of transport developed by Kazakhstani scientists. "
this creates large jobs and contributes to the fact that foreign exchange earnings remain in the country.
The delegation of the military police of the Russian Federation noted that the official meeting led by the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Russian Federation, Major General Vitaly Koch, made it possible to obtain some information to apply positive experience, as well as to discuss the prospects for further cooperation.
The prize of the President of Kazakhstan is awarded in three categories: "the best enterprise of industrial purpose," "the best enterprise for the production of goods for the population," "the best service enterprise."
Over the past 10 years, thanks to our joint efforts, many events have been held. over the last decade , the country has made a lot of joint efforts .
The company has created about 80 jobs.
the best among Kazakhstan powerlifists was Julia Petruseva.
Today, about 100 parents are ready to send their children to this boarding house, "the report said.
It is planned that the meeting participants will discuss a package of topics that includes the main aspects of joint counteracting the terrorist threat, ensuring security and law and order, and cooperation between the security agencies of the Commonwealth member states.
As B. Tulegenova said, a real patriot lives not only for herself, but also for the country.
they are now flourishing and growing thanks to the support provided by the State under the programme.
Head of State A.D. On the instructions of Nazarbayev, the country pays great attention to mass sports and major sports competitions.
The interlocutors noted the importance of further supporting the policy of interethnic harmony in Kazakhstan, which proved to be on the good side, and strengthening the exchange of experience with ecu in such an extreme issue.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
then hard work was needed.
therefore, suicide cases are increasing.
citizens with special abilities, especially young people.
6.5 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of rental housing and the construction of engineering and communication infrastructure from the National Fund of Kazakhstan.
Tarasanko noted that the country is working to improve the status of women as a result of the comprehensive policy of the Head of State.
in the case of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO under this protocol, different obligations were adopted than the level of single import duties applied by the five member states of the eurozone.
that is, a small amount of silicon carbon dioxide and aluminum is obtained from the treated straw.
The volume of retail turnover in January-September 2015 amounted to 113915.8 million tenge and increased by 1.2% compared to January-September 2014 (in stable prices).
a number of heads of departments of internal affairs, the penal system and emergency situations spoke at the board of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Representatives of the agency noted that the Kainar-akb partnership improved technology and increased production by 2.5 times thanks to state support.
we conducted a thorough study of more than 10 thousand business entities. it is the poor quality of the projects proposed by the kazakh side .
these measures will ensure that the pension of military personnel meets international standards and will preserve the social guarantees of military personnel.
increasing types of disciplines of choice in UNT certificates.
During the discussion of the bill, taking into account the comments and proposals of the committees, it became necessary to amend and supplement the draft code approved by the meeting in the main areas:
As part of the Golden Spike program, 10 thousand sheep were purchased in the region according to the plan, but 3,575 sheep were actually purchased.
in particular, ethnocultural and public associations of Astana expressed confidence in the effective implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan and noted that this measure will increase the standard of living of the population and create conditions for the further development of the country.
however, I believe that training in the basics of consumer rights in general education schools and higher educational institutions is not carried out or does not allow achieving the intended goals, since the information is very low, "the deputy's request says.
In addition, San Francisco has the opportunity to take part in an expo in Kazakhstan in a private pavilion, as at an exhibition in Shanghai.
In general, a crop of 13 to 15 tons per hectare of this farm is expected, "the scientist shared.
In addition to the concert, a ball festival will be held on Republic Square, where 120 participants will present 61 tons of points.
And further processing of wheat is not yet developed.
in a word, all conditions are created.
The Constitution has shown its viability and effectiveness over the past 20 years. "
today, if we talk about priority sectors such as manufacturing, then in this direction the fund is developing an alternative program without industry restrictions.
In the first half of 2017, the plant will be launched and will make a great contribution to the potential of the region.
However, civil society had a major role to play in curbing the propaganda of extremism and terrorism. civil society must play an important role in suppression of propagation of extremism and terrorism .
This will enable the countries of the world to reliably access fuel for nuclear power plants.
The head of state noted that the country is currently implementing the second five-year plan of the industrial-innovative program, one of the main goals of which is to systematically reduce the dependence of the economy on raw materials.
this is a very bright holiday, because on this day the new school year will begin.
I think that this is not a limit criterion, this year we will see even more Kazakhstani citizens from your state, "the ambassador said.
This trend continues in China, which uses oil needs.	we see that the oil companies are prepared for further reduce , as they review their budget plans ,  j.toth has said .
in particular, the regulatory framework of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the use of atomic energy is brought into line with the requirements of the international level.
today we are leaning towards the sources of this right.
The law provides for the introduction of new tax exemptions for the import of raw materials, materials used in the framework of the investment project.
the plot of the ballet boils down to long-standing ballet conflicts: love and fidelity, a happy and dying sensation of death.
geopolitical risks and falling oil prices, declining economic growth in Russia and China - in general, on the agenda of our industry and economy.
after these properties have a relationship, the measures and the concept will be implemented simultaneously, "said R. dosymbekov.
During the meeting, B.Baibek noted that today, thanks to the policy of the head of state, systemic conditions for entrepreneurship have been created in the country.
Persons who have served their sentence in accordance with the law are recognized as having fallen into a difficult life situation. in accordance with the employment act , ex-convicts ' group refers to the target group .
According to the Governor's Office, during the event it is planned to prepare Kazakh meat according to the traditional Kazakh method of cooking on October 15 and on a large taikazan throughout the meat.
Contacts at the level of members of Parliament are of particular importance in forging partnerships between such organizations.
The Kazakh delegation within the forum will hold a number of meetings with Russian politicians and parliamentarians.
restoration of water supply and complete purification of drinking water.
this conference is held at the suggestion of the Chinese Engineering Academy, "said A. Magauov.
The topic of the academic diplomatic club is distinguished by the significance, breadth of the thematic space.
"Dialogue between religious leaders and politicians for peace and development."
The migration policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan is based on the principles of protecting the domestic labor market and preserving it for domestic specialists, as well as attracting highly skilled foreign labor.	in general , migration policy of kazakhstan is based on the principles of protecting the domestic labor market and at the same time attracting of highly skilled foreign labor .
As a professional historian, I am interested in the history of modern Kazakhstan. "
Our main goal is to support unprecedented technologies, accompanying processes from their preparation to entry into the market. our main task is to support and maintenance unique technologies from the development before they enter the market .
the parties discussed topical regional issues, as well as the situation in the Middle East and terrorism.	the sides discussed topical regional issues , including the situation in the middle east and the fight against terrorism .	0,62
temperature mode of heat can each include convenience, meter is installed inside the apartment.	district  airport " - one of the most promising , there will be a lot of multi-storey houses , schools and other social facilities .
The presentation ceremony in Semipalatinsk was attended by leading foreign writers, philosophers, historians, language specialists and foreign translators who practice abai works in the languages ​ ​ of the world.
after the first reading, the bill was amended to protect consumers of financial services and Islamic financing.
Of course, the current situation in Kazakhstan, if we take the influence of external factors, is not very small, and we all know this.
we made sure it was quality work.
However, it is proposed that he be required to serve in a court-related position for at least 5 years.
It is expected that as a result of the implementation of this plan, the legislative implementation of the modern experience of the state and the state will be achieved based on international experience, strengthening the competitiveness and institutional stability of Kazakhstani companies and expanding business cooperation.
this facility was built at its own expense sstnb.
The Chamber is considering amendments and amendments made by the Senate to the law on preparations for mobilization and mobilization.
in the city, the UNT level is 92.1 points, and the average indicator in the republic is 79.4 points.
in the midst of summer rest, users of the social network are invited to share a photo with professional shirts expo 2017.
On the same day, Majilis deputies considered amendments on the development of the cotton industry and agreed with the amendments made by the Senate.
on mutual review of monographic works and scientific examination of dissertation studies.
on the day of publication, a response to each order is issued.
During the meeting, the heads of city structures reported to the Governor's Office of the capital on preparations for the heating season of the Astana energy complex, housing stock, educational institutions, health care, culture, sports.
among them there are carpets of the elite class.
Under your wise leadership, peace and tranquillity prevail in our country. under your wise leadership we have peace and quiet .
Recently, he has won several rating competitions in a row.
At the same time, the data show growth in the construction industry.
the third issue related to equality in education.
the main goal of the bill is to improve the current system of control and supervision in the field of architectural and construction activities, as well as pricing in construction, state standards and the permitting system.
The conceptual model of the new labor code proposes to clearly define the limits of state intervention of the employer and the employee in labor relations, determining their responsibility and role, maintaining a balance of interests of the parties. the employer and employees relations are largely based on the principles of self-regulation , the capacity of collective bargaining will be strengthened in recruitment , personnel transfer and dismissal " the message reads .
On behalf of the Minister of Defense, we will be in all garrisons of the ground forces of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this is 70% of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, more than 30 garrisons.	the garrison command will visit regional commands , troops and military units , veterans and labor , greeting them with the 20th anniversary of the constitution .	0,62
The head of the region also visited two medical institutions - an ambulance hospital and a radiological center.	the governor also visited the medical center - emergency hospital and radiological center .	0,62
competitions are held according to the rules approved by the world curling federation.	competitions are held in accordance with the rules of the world curling federation .	0,62
At the end of the meeting, Mr. Nurashev invited the Korean side to take part in a meeting with international participants of the EXPO-2017 exhibition, which will be held this fall.	m. nurshayev invited the korean side to take part in the meeting of international participants this fall .	0,62
Kazakhstan is one of the main suppliers of uranium to the Indian country.	kazakhstan is one of the main suppliers of uranium to india .	0,62
the first stages of the competition, which include modernization of traditions, demonstration of the advanced model of family education, were held in the districts.	the first place was taken by the family of aral district - the aimbetovs , and the nurmanbetovs of zhalagash district .	0,62
in addition, you are undergoing major Asian construction.	therefore , i consider it important that kazakhstan pays great attention to the transport sector .	0,62
The corporation system will include unified public service centers, which will become single public service providers.	the corporation will become the single provider of public services , integrating all public service centers into a single system .	0,62
In conclusion, the heads of defense departments signed an agreement on the provision of free military-technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic.	in conclusion , the defense ministers signed an agreement on the provision of free military-technical assistance to kyrgyzstan .	0,62
As the head of state noted, the number of active enterprises in the industry over the past five years has grown 1.5 times.	as the president 's speech noted , over five years the number of industrial enterprises increased by 1.5 times .	0,62
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Ukrainian side.	the conversation was initiated by the ukrainian side .	0,62
this is a truly unique and impressive result.	it 's unique and impressive .	0,62
and one of the most attractive productions will be the production of Vladislav Goncharov "One among the lions."
and for schools of the natural-humanitarian and natural-mathematical direction, the structure of disciplines will be completely different.	also the minister has said that at the primary school it is expected to introduce new subjects , which will include an introduction to natural science in 5-6 forms .	0,62
our military chemists continue to carry out reconnaissance missions of the ridges, orient the specially worked state of the combat areas and military contingents of the international.	kazakh military chemists will perform tasks on nbc intelligence , forecasting of the situation in the war zones and special treatment of international troops .	0,62
From July 1, 2017, the basic pension payment will be appointed depending on the length of service of participation in the pension system and upon reaching retirement age (58-63/63).
The Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan represents our team of seven athletes from the central sports club of the army.
members of the expedition were pleased with the performances of young artists.
In addition, the laboratory is equipped with a real-time high-speed data transmission system and automated workstations.
Within the framework of the direction, regional cultural and tourist clusters "Capital - the Heart of Eurasia," "Almat" - a free cultural zone of Kazakhstan, "unity of nature" and nomadic cultures, "Altai pearls," "revival of the great silk road," "Caspian gate" will be created.
G. Abdykalikova in her welcoming speech noted that the health of the nation is one of the most important priorities of state policy.
More than 20 producers presented a wide range and innovations of the construction market in the largest construction of Kazakhstan.
we face great challenges, and we must all serve as fists in the way of those challenges.
He invited a mentor, semifinal sponsor Kental Akmola, a famous singer, composer medeu Arynbayev and singer kenzhebek Dzhanabilov to his team.
glorious boxers first congratulated the guys, and then held a special master class.
for example, to date, agreements have been concluded for the supply of products with the company "bi holding," the association of developers of Kazakhstan, as well as the company "pieces."
the adoption of this law will not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences and will not require additional funds, "said the head of the department of the migration police.
Thus, direct investment in the mining sector decreased by 40%, in trade - by 38%, in exploration - by 30%, in the manufacturing industry the indicator remained at the level of last year, "the minister said.
according to the register of public services, the center provides more than 200 types of services related to documentation of the population.
Commissioner of the Section of the French Republic on behalf of the President of France F. Hollande presented an official note on the appointment of the first commissioner and expressed hope for further strategic cooperation with Kazakhstan.
According to him, the Venetian Biennale is the pinnacle of art, where world-famous art historians and gallerists, museum specialists and fencing masters gather.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 174 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.5 billion as of 22.10.2015. Tenge, including for money legalization - 3.0 billion. Tenge with payment to the budget of 30.0 billion Tenge.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 174 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.5 billion as of 29.10.2015. Tenge, including for money legalization - 3.0 billion. Tenge with payment to the budget of 30.0 billion Tenge.
I want to say that the development of the culture of the Eurasian contingent in the era of globalization is connected with us, and not with others, "said a. Musakozhaeva.
According to him, having joined the UN Security Council, Kazakhstan will make every effort to reform and transform the security council into a fairly representative and transparent body that can contribute to ensuring international peace and security, counter new challenges and threats.
all of them have mastered practical exercises well.
Recall that from January 18 to 25 of this year, in order to attract investments in the South Kazakhstan region, a business trip to the People's Republic of China took place.
Currently, an agreement has been concluded on the laying of Kazakhstan fiberglass pipes worth $2.78 million.
At the same time, special attention is paid to each trained specialist, specialists of the new formation are needed to implement projects in Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The company's production works steadily and productively thanks to the leaders working in the company and the long-term continuation of the generation.
on the scales, the deputy head of government visited the location of the Kazakh Khanate monument and got acquainted with the sketches of the location of the monument.
The team's victories in the bike ride include five victories in mountain zones, as well as the title of the most valuable young male fabiu, "the report said.
the army athlete won the Ecuadorian master of leather gloves carlos pilataxi and received a ticket to the Olympic Games.
the total length of the distance coincides with the anniversary digit.
According to him, thanks to the policy of the President of Kazakhstan to preserve cultural and historical values, historical, deep, large-scale events are held.
Today I held the first meeting.	the volume of investments - 500 million tenge .	0,62
The head of state arrived on a working trip to the city of Taraz.	the head of state arrived in taraz city .	0,62
Foster spoke about the economic potential of Indonesia, one of the leading states in the Asia-Pacific region.	foster gultom told about the economic potential of indonesia , one of the leading countries in the asia-pacific region ( apr ) .	0,62
at the same time, the main strength in financing lies in small and medium-sized farms.	the main focus is on small and medium-sized farms .	0,62
this work will accelerate the innovation process.	10 best projects will receive free flights and accommodation .	0,62
On a tripartite basis, the development of foot routes near the Hazret Sultan protection zone and the participation of international specialists in the modernization of the Khoja Ahmet Yassaui mausoleum were agreed.
now civil budgets are published on the websites of state bodies and executive bodies.
owners of the second and third places of the competition were also awarded cars and cash prizes.
this example will develop if we move forward on the system of breaking the post.
Governor of the region k.k.sherbayev took part in the forum.
projects and youth organizations selected through the competition.
At the same time, he emphasized that companies themselves should be engaged in the implementation of rationalization solutions.
The bill also provides for a reduction in the volume of Kazakhstani lands used by the Russian Federation.
The purpose of financing is to clear windows and further tighten production, which in turn will allow the production of import-substituting high-quality and export-oriented products.
today the supplier plans to remove this item from print.
The Ministry is taking steps to develop the regulatory framework.
In the village of Zhyngyldy, Mangistau district, asphalting of intra-village roads began for the first time in the Mangistau region.
The main factors for improving our indicators are the removal of administrative barriers and the deliverance of government from bureaucracy, anti-corruption measures taken.
A. Mamytbekov noted that under favorable weather conditions, harvesting is planned to be completed in 10-15 days.
Now colleagues from China will teach at the school of political management at the Nur Otan party, share their experience in party activities.
before these reforms, employment was 50-58%, now it exceeded 70%.	in other words , the colleges have transferred to a dual system .	0,62
During the event, delegates participated in a workshop at the Business Service Center, organized by aio. "
the state emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan is round.
According to the head of the city dapertament of internal affairs, Serik Kuderbayev, the criminal situation in the city is under control.
Spartakiads became the pride of the Kazakh people
in fact, 71 objects were put up for sale, 52 objects were sold.
some types of autonomous underwater vehicles are submerged to a great depth and are used for area surveying, monitoring of underwater objects, for example pipelines, search and neutralization of underwater mines.
however, from the point of view of practical significance and physical atomic safety, this issue covers all development chains during the exploitation of atoms, for example: production, reconstruction and delivery of energy resources to the bottom, replenishment of the nuclear renewal bank, reprocessing of nuclear materials and storage of radioactive waste in appropriate places.
Competitions for all irrigated lands have been announced in the akimat, several investment projects are attracted, "said Anuarbek Mukhtarkhanov.
As part of ensuring food security in the capital, projects are being implemented to build vegetable farms and greenhouses.
The head of the upper house wished the ambassador success in strengthening Kazakh-Latvian relations.
In 1992, after the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Poland, a Polish cemetery was opened in the south of Kazakhstan.
firstly, a private investor builds a correctional institution at its own expense in accordance with the contract.
Events in the secret region did not end.
We assume that the number of tests will decrease depending on the number of countries that have ratified the agreement, "the minister said.
in addition, the volume of state support within the framework of the "green basket" can be indicated without any restrictions.
In particular, the Chairman of the State Duma discussed with Sergey Naryshkin topical issues of Kazakh-Russian cooperation, as well as strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation.
I want to note that our relations are developing on the basis of a fundamental agreement "on good-neighborliness and alliance in the 21st century."
The summit is organized by the Hong Kong International Financial Center.
the author of an unprecedented project is the famous British architect Lord Norman Foster.
domestic production of high-quality metal to preserve the viability of the engineering industry. the cornerstone of the existence of the engineering industry is to establish our own production of high-quality metal .
One of them is a special panel on investment affairs and an international advisory council in the Supreme Court.
Today, on the basis of our memoranda with individual entrepreneurs, measures are being implemented to acquire the experience of graduates of the future program, "said K. Ishimbayev.
In turn, the marin ricardo voiced his proposals to create the most comfortable city for Almaty residents and tourists.
The main tasks on personnel training, implementation of joint educational programs have been approved between our ministries, "A. Sarinzhipov said.
The festival, held for the first time in our country, is of special importance, the main priority for the development of Kazakhstan is the unity of the people, "he said.
the initiators and founders of this organization were Swiss citizens and Kazakhstanis, temporarily and permanently living in the confederation.
The number of military contingents, task forces and special forces participating in the general exercise was about 3,000.
The head of the region noted that in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State to solve the problem of emergency schools, the construction of 5 general education schools for 840 students has been completed, which will be put into operation in the new school year.
The land of Kazakhstan is very large.
The children were greeted by firefighters of fire department No. 2 of the fire fighting and rescue services of the department and traveled to the oldest fire department of Kazakhstan, where this year will be the 150th anniversary.
The Mayor of the city noted that this competition, initiated by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, is the most important and relevant for imitating the moral qualities of the family, the viability of the family and marriage, raising the status of the family as a whole.
it is also planned to sign an intergovernmental agreement to create a single legal framework for maritime transport with Iran. it is also expected to sign an intergovernmental agreement with iran to establish a single legal framework on shipping .
Akimats are taking the following measures to stabilize retail prices for basic food. in order to maintain retail prices for socially important foods , akimat has taken the measures .
At the end of 2014, he took 28th place with $9.6 billion.
thanks to the conduct of such expeditions, we will have a positive impact on the development, strengthening of Kazakhstan's identity and the development of domestic tourism in the region, improving culture, preserving national cultural values, "said the head of the Kha-Shko secretariat for Ayazbayev.
next time, maybe I'll have a flight, maybe someone else.
Work is also underway to divert the most popular tourist routes of Kazakhstan towards the capital.
we have a schedule of vacancies, there is an opportunity to employ women depending on their case, "he said.
During the visit, negotiations were held with the Spanish Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Ignacio Ibáñez.
Although the road repair team is taking the necessary measures to ensure safe movement at the repair sites (signs of restriction and warnings, banners), many drivers ignore them.
The event was attended by students of higher and secondary educational institutions of the region and cadets of the Hero of the Soviet Union Military Institute of Air Defense Talgat Bigeldinov.
Having got acquainted with the work of the enterprise, the head of the region gave a positive assessment of the work of the plant and noted that he supports domestic products.
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Development of Local Self-Government in the Republic of Kazakhstan," aimed at the implementation of the National Plan - 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms regarding the improvement of local self-government;
I am confident that the forum will contribute to the promotion of world values ​ ​ and the strengthening of good-neighborliness in the CIS space.
As Ms. R. noted, this is a great help to the family.
Residents of Rosario and Argentina visited Kazakh national cuisine.
he voluntarily played for Kazakhstan, wanted to achieve Olympic success in the Kazakh team.
I am sure that from January 1, 2016 our agreement with the EU will open up new opportunities for Kazakhstan, "the Ukrainian president said.
Recall that the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko arrived in the capital on his first state visit.
now the company employs 18 people.
in my opinion, this book should be interesting not only to contemporaries, but also to future generations.
In addition, the meat processing plant under construction in his city plans to make a significant contribution to the processing of lamb and increase agricultural production at new rates.
Reportedly, with the support of Kazenergosberezhenie LLP, the opening plant is able to produce 31.2 thousand units of LED lamps per year.
The festive performance is 7 chapters dedicated to the three thousandth history and the modern appearance of the Kazakh country.
From all sides of the country, medicines, warm clothes, food began to arrive as an ambulance.
opportunities for reducing hydrocarbon emissions will be a great way to transition from oil to gas and conversion, "said the FF, adding that this is also an opportunity to develop all types of renewable energy sources.
Within the framework of the official visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to India, the parties agreed on the supply of natural uranium.
For example, in the UK, this law was adopted after 30 years of discussion, he added. " abdir.
The forces and means of rapid response of the state civil protection system of the Republic of Kazakhstan and certified search and rescue units of the states included in the pairs are put on high alert.
According to the mayor, today one of the important issues for the capital is the organization of parking.
Of the 184 laws, 113 were sent to the Senate.
that is, the losing player exits.
compliance with the requirements of civil proceedings to restore such interests, respect for the rule of law, and the formation of a respectful attitude of society to the law and the court.
according to the draft agreement, a common market for alcoholic beverages will be created on the territory of the union, equal rights will be established for all countries.
winners of all prizes will receive prizes and valuable prizes on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the townspeople, holding seasonal fairs is a good trend, especially due to the large number of food products and the fact that they are sold at low prices.
In the next 2-3 months, we will begin to produce high-level carpets in full, "said K. Iskakov.
Following the meetings of the brix member countries, the adoption of the Ufa declaration and joint action plan is expected.
as part of this exhibition, the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov met with the Crown Prince of the Emirate Abu Dhabi, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces Sheikh Mohammed and Zayed al Nahayan.
Currently, the electronic management system of the republic is undergoing a transitional period, the main purpose of which is to discuss and improve the existing regulatory framework.
In April of this year, a competition was announced, in which 4 contracting companies from Kokshetau and the capital took part.	currently , the work on stepnogorsk facility has just begun , but 28 professionals work there , 10 of them are local .	0,63
17 of them receive higher education in Gziau.	17 of them go into higher education in mephi nrnu .	0,63
The bill also proposes an addition providing for the provision of an official home without the right of privatization during the performance of official duties by rotating law enforcement officers in senior positions.	also , the bill proposes to supplement providing that which is rotated staff in leadership positions of law enforcement authority , for the period of performance of official duties provided service housing without the right to privatization .	0,63
Today, the technical park and bread reception organizations are ready for 90-95%.	the western and southern districts of the region have started harvesting of brown bread - barley and oats .	0,63
all costs are reimbursed.	i was there with foreign minister yerlan idrissov .	0,63
stable growth in annual average rates - determines the success of previous reforms.
before that, the area of ​ ​ the garden will be increased by 100 hectares.
an example for all families who took part in the competition.
then the construction of the second half of the city will begin.
In addition, from January 1 of this year, parents are criminalized in case of unreasonable failure to fulfill their duties.
I believe that all the issues that our country raised received proper support, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
currently, the budget has been executed by 95.5%.
the implementation of these recommendations is of strategic importance, as Kazakhstan plans to become a member of the OECD.
they should work to create a Shu energy club, adopt a convention on industrial safety of shu, "he said.
As the President of the COP noted, this mechanism received high support from foreign partners.
The third direction is associated with the transfer of legalized funds to the Capital International Financial Fund without any fees, "he said.
The event is organized by the Kazakhstan Youth Congress with the support of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
two large led-screens are installed on both sides of the chapel.
Recall that this support program is aimed at increasing the availability of financial services to the subjects of the agricultural complex by subsidizing part of the remuneration rates under credit/leasing agreements.
also stressed the importance of providing political support to the initiatives of the business community of the two countries to develop economic relations.
In this regard, it is worth mentioning the mutual visits carried out through the parliamentary line between the two countries on the path of high-level bilateral cooperation.
According to the political scientist, Kyrgyzstan has the opportunity to attract investment from other countries, thereby solving the problem of labor migrants.
It is worth noting that this approach allows you to appeal as quickly as possible to citizens' appeals or take appropriate measures, take as many appeals as possible on topical issues, provide information on the work of state bodies and the parliamentary faction, anti-crisis measures and the work carried out against it in the country.
The National Agency for the Development of Local Content conducted an examination of local content for a large investment project "Pavlodar Modernization."
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is a holiday of the whole people.
In addition, according to the results of 8 months of the current year, the employment center of the Mayor's Office of Astana employed 3,793 people.
It included the head of the administration of the borough-tala-Mongolian autonomous region, the responsible person in the city of Alashankou cheng hong, the responsible employee of the city of hao and other representatives.
On behalf of the Head of State, work has begun on the overhaul of the road with a length of 470 km "Video Recording-Token Whitewash," of which 240 km of traffic on the Videeu-Bristpe section was opened at 300 km.
such care is beneficial to the development of peasants.
The head of state also noted that during the meeting the issues of "exploration in the Afghan zone were discussed; the situation within Afghanistan.
The event is timed to coincide with the youth procession "Sign of Mercy," which took place from the evening streets of kazybek and aitekbi to the central square.
In addition, two more houses were restored at the expense of returned funds in the amount of 27 million tenge.
all this contributed to the implementation of the budget.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 241 facilities are planned for sale.
Disaster management training and training.
Air defense forces are equipped with modern means of defeating air and ground targets, capable of destroying any air targets, as well as anti-aircraft missile systems.
In turn, the Secretary General of the ICD noted that at present it is necessary to pay attention to the need to create the core of the future exhibition.
future graduates are among entrepreneurs.
he completely got rid of the old Soviet model.
In any state, the sphere of law is conservative, it is very difficult to make any changes to this sphere.
in addition, Kazakhstan is a net exporter, which means that we export more than we import.
the car is designed for the prompt delivery of firefighters, rescuers, as well as sets of emergency rescue equipment to the scene of a fire and emergency, "the report said.
The head of state stressed that Kazakhstan should be distinguished by some kind of goods and be ahead of others at the world level.
Ways of using gas under various conditions and targeted use in the production sector were also discussed.
At the same time, he noted that this year there are twice as many participants in the competition, and the culsary family, who became the winners of the republican stage, deserves this award.
ensuring health and high-quality, comfortable living of the population of the country requires breakthrough research and development from Kazakh science, which allows to conduct a strategic analysis of the state of the environment and prevent any negative phenomenon.
In the future, it is planned to supply products to China, there is interest.
the creation of an industrial zone is a direct task of the head of state.
I like how classics compose anna karenina.
according to him, this program will allow the carriers themselves to pursue a marketing policy by buying tickets.
In addition, within the framework of his visit to Iran, R. Zhoshybayev signed an agreement with the Minister of Industry, Mining and Trade Hussein Esfahbudi on Iran's participation in the international specialized exhibition expo 2017.
In particular, it was noted that every year the prosecutor's office protects the rights and interests of more than half a million people.
however, there was an opinion that it could be expanded, "explained K. Maxim.
the number of graduates has doubled everywhere.
this is not just our initiative.
about 300 people take part in the play: soloists, choir, ballet, mimance.
Recall that today Minister A. Sarinzhipov said that since 2016, the salaries of teachers with higher education and qualification category will increase by 66%.
Kyzylorda scientists constantly improve the selection process.
in addition, new data appeared in the film about the cereas and toads, their sons, about the rule of the spit and nose.
The head of the region, at the request of Major General of the Police M. Urumkhanov, contributed to the development of a modern and high-quality facility.
projects are being implemented to expand the port of whitewash in the northern direction and to build a ferry complex in the land port.
Today, on the basis of concession agreements, projects are being implemented to build 11 kindergartens in cities with growth and Semipalatinsk.
In general, the visit of the delegation of the Central Party School of the Communist Party of China to Kazakhstan will last until October 31.
Many important countries intend to take part in EXPO-2017.
Zhazylbekov got acquainted with the work of turbine shops and boiler houses.
One of the main activities of the agency is the provision of innovative grants.
we succeeded.
Warm wishes came from all over the world and from all regions of the country.
the production capacity of projects agreed between Kazakhstan and China amounted to $40 billion.
The head of state arrived in London.
for example, scientific activity.
for this purpose, the Supreme Court has introduced the practice of reviewing cases containing such materials. the supreme court has been generalized such a practice .
live bacteria were found there.
also carefully studied the experience of the exhibition in Milan.
More than 200 endocrinologists and 30 nurses working in the offices of endocrinologists were trained in pump therapy and trained to work with it.
the experience of involving leading foreign specialists, scientists and teachers in academic processes will be widely applied.
The purpose of the forum is to familiarize with the investment opportunities of Aktobe region, as well as attract investors to the real sector of the region's economy.
boiler rooms of the plant are designed to obtain hot water used in the heating system, air exchange in industrial and domestic buildings and premises and provide them with hot water.
improvement of preventive work, improvement of the quality of the administrative police in the protection of public order and application of the new norms of the Code of Administrative Offences.
they import equipment they need from foreign countries.
the first stage is the organization of a joint operation.
every year, enterprises in the following areas participate in the exhibition: mechanical engineering, instrument making, the oil and gas industry, energy and resource saving, construction industry, special equipment, cars, agriculture, services (in the field of health, education, tourism, etc.).
According to the calculation of 1-r at the 05.06.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 2.8 billion tenge.
According to the calculation of 1-r at the 28.05.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 2.7 billion tenge.
Then Svetlana Bychkova informed that now Kazakh parliamentarians are developing a bill on the rights of children.
today, whatever energy efficiency measures are taken, the capital remains one of the most inefficient cities where there are very high losses of electricity, heat. energy efficiency , energy savings are intended not only to improve the competitiveness of the economy by developing innovative methods of production and consumption , but also help to reduce the negative impact on the environment .
He also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the historic event - the end of negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization, noting that this is the victory of our country, its recognition as an integral part of the global economic system.
the holy sacrifice ait calls mankind for peace and harmony, mutual understanding and empathy.
The Constitution has a rule of justice established through the fault of citizens and is in force. the citizen is to participate in the justice , the constitution includes this norm .
mobile memory is needed to work on a mobile phone, "explained Mr. Isabekova.
he was engaged in the transportation of raw materials, and now that times have changed, we realized that we cannot get through this fishing alone.
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, as of 17.11.2015, second-tier banks opened 1787 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.8 billion. Tenge, including for legalization of money with payment of 3.1 billion to the budget Tenge withdrawn from savings account 31.0 billion Tenge.	according to the national bank , as of november 18 , the second-tier banks have opened 178 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 80,8 billion tenge , including withdrawn from saving accounts - 31.0 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 3.1 billion tenge of fee for the legalization of money .	0,63
another advantage of Kazakhstan production in its length and throughput, its diameter is 1 thousand mm. (up to 700 mm).	another advantage of the new tubes produced in kazakhstan - the increased bandwidth of the 1000 mm diameter .	0,63
at the own expense of housing developers.	housing was introduced at own expense of building companies .	0,63
It is worth noting that the region has a large transport, logistics and service potential, since it is located in the zone bordering other states.	with the support of the islamic republic of iran , aktau opened the consulate general of iran , the body is actively working to establish economic and cultural relations ,  - akim of the region said .
houses are intended for transfer to young families through mortgages. houses are built for young families and for mortgage housing and they will be commissioned in november this year .
he noted that it was not yet possible to talk about when the constitution would be amended.
The Ministry of Finance intends to simplify the trade process in order to strengthen sales of privatization facilities. in order to enhance the marketability of objects , the ministry of finance adopted changes to the rules regarding sales facilitation of trading .
According to him, the service allows you to receive information online via the Internet and via SMS service.
In accordance with the requirements of the constitution, the president submitted to the Senate a proposal to consent to the appointment of the chairman of the national bank.
thus, Kazakhstan could establish relations with 19 countries simultaneously by adopting one convention.
work is underway to clean the homes of victims.
Following the results of the forum, the composition of the delegates who will take part in the republican forum of patriots in Astana was determined.
in the nomination "the best urban structure" - education management, "the best territorial structure" - the department of internal affairs, "the best urban industry" - LLP "Development of the capital."
but since we need it in a cut form, after manufacturing the pipe, it is automatically cut down.
a system of freedom of choice of medical organizations has been introduced within the framework of a single national health system.
investors and founders of companies are well aware of this issue.
Chairman of the special olympics Kazakhstan movement Fr. Bakharev thanked the organizers for the wonderful reception and noted that the national team is faced with the task of winning at least 10 gold medals.
for national companies and holdings in 2014-2015. According to the sales schedule for 107 objects, privatization is subject to privatization, as of September 21, 86 objects of the planned 86 objects were put up for auction, including 45 objects.
It is noted that one of the symbols of cultural revival is the presentation of creative schools of colleges and universities of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thus, to date, the highest court has prepared a draft code of administrative procedure. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan and Russia have invaluable wealth, huge agricultural land and agricultural experience.
According to him, to date, almost all of the 1 million 600 documents in the process of execution are not prohibited from leaving the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In total, last year our students won 155 medals at international competitions, this year - 167 medals.
The event was organized by the metropolitan chamber of entrepreneurs.
all of them are based on the short story prosper mirime.
the height of the architectural monument is two meters.
According to the press service of the party, a memorandum on mutual cooperation with youth parties of the Russian Federation and Mongolia was signed during the meeting.
also during it, it was decided to further regularly hold other meetings of this congress.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 240 objects are scheduled for sale.
the congress of the mining and metallurgical industry has become an important discussion platform. the congress has become a major discussion platform where the workers can consider the recommendations for the further development .
special attention is planned to improve the combat compatibility of peacekeeping contingents of UN member states for active actions to fulfill their tasks in a peacekeeping operation.
The capital of the 2022 Olympics chooses a hook as part of the 128th session, which will be held in lumpur from July 30.
thanks to measures of state support for business, real growth amounted to 35.6% (in terms of 38.4%), the manufacturing industry began to grow at a faster pace (production growth in the manufacturing sector amounted to 22.8%, and in the mining sector - 20.4%).
producer of frozen semi-finished products of Pavlodar region - Smak Pv LLP - produces about 3 thousand tons of stews and other processed products.
phased introduction of inflation restriction policy will cover the mining and metallurgical industry in long-term and cheap tenge. the consistent implementation of the new monetary policy provides profitable exchange rate to mining and metallurgical sector .
During the game, high school students were engaged in military-applied sports using various game elements.
According to Y. Karin, the debate showed that today major powers are experiencing problems in current industries.
Since last year, the operation of equipment for the disposal of engineering ammunition and ammunition intended for small arms has begun.
Experts determining the volume of costs and production volumes and prospects for production and other goods have compiled a list of projects for the development of the feed industry.
The 18-year-old powerlifter conquered 101 kg.
We are sure that everyone understands that the purchase of clothes for schoolchildren from foreign manufacturers affects the external outflow of capital from the republic.
On behalf of the people's representatives, A. Dosbolov expressed his readiness to support all the initiatives of the local authorities and the head of state.
in line with this reform, increased funding.
In general, this expedition is a large-scale event dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The plan also includes a regional cluster that includes operational measures to support and employ industrial enterprises and socially vulnerable segments of the population.
if it is successfully implemented, the organizers of the first project plan to consider new effective sources to optimize all functions of the catering system.
as soon as possible, the building of the administrative complex was built.
We take an example from the experience of States such as Turkey.
The outcome document is expected to conclude.
if this amount is exhausted, it is not paid from a single funded pension fund.
the financial center will be located here.
It is worth noting that the people from the very beginning took into account that to worship the holy ancestors should not be comforted on the road.
this not only provokes resentment and indignation, but also calls on all mankind to fight such actions.
thousands of enterprises in the region, including more than 1,500 joint ventures with contributions from private investors.
Chairman of the Azerbaijan Railway Party D. Gurbanov noted at the ceremony that a reliable partnership has been established between the Azerbaijani Railway and the Kazakhstan Railway for many years.
Of course, it takes free time to participate in the competition, since many documents are required to participate in the competition.
The head of state noted the qualitative growth of relations between the two states.
does not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences if the bill is adopted.
At the same time, the president noted that in the 21st century there is no alternative to dialogue.
subsequently, the boxes were built by rail and delivered from Estonia to Russia, then to the capital.
According to the calculation of 1-r at the 08.07.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
On July 27, the heads of government of Kazakhstan and China held interviews with IOC members.
light colors are used only in ceremonial representations, and the color of clothing in other representations is invisible and corresponds to that era.
7 residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 513 square meters are being built for waiting lists.
It is well invented that Kazakh and Russian singers are in the capital.
Subsequently, a "presidential competition" was held, in which more than 600 people took part.
according to the provisions of the document, Kazakhstan and Romania will provide more legal assistance in any cases related to crimes. the contract , signed with romania , provides necessary legal assistance in criminal matters .
Within the framework of the festival there is an international exposition, which includes 60 secular artists from 18 countries, as well as drawing with light and time - lightpaint room.
pensions will be indexed annually depending on the economic opportunities and demographic indicators of the BKP.
minimum tariffs in East Kazakhstan region.
the building was built in the 70s of the last century.
engineering and technical personnel and specialists providing ground flights at airfields were fully trained.
there are two methods for providing land.
According to the director of the plant Vyacheslav Valiev, the ship engaged in the protection and monitoring of the underwater environment is planned to be equipped with a special hydroacoustic station.
in the absence of a raw material base.
In addition, at the plenary meeting in the first reading, amendments will be considered on safety issues during sports, recreation and other events.
At the beginning of the speech, he said that the Republic of Kazakhstan is working to create a map of social problems that allows controlling social well-being in the regions.
At the same time, the head of the committee spoke about providing the regions of the country with textbooks.
Karagande for a total amount of 178.3 million tenge, but allocated 155.601 million tenge, respectively, the deficit for the provision of educational literature is 22.7 million tenge.
Aktobe region operates the only joint Kazakh-Indian enterprise, which, according to the berdibek mashbekula, does not correspond to the huge potential of cooperation between Aktobe and the Republic of India.
every year they should be monitored and waited for.
the main purpose of the headquarters is to conduct an appeal and appeal in the republic; public awareness-raising on championship issues; organization of public order protection, use of metal detectors when allowing testing, signals of cellular telephones during testing and video surveillance; Timely consideration of complaints from graduates and parents.
The highest result among the districts is 83.5 points, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
One of the pressing problems that are often raised in society is the forced collection of money from parents in schools. one of the critical issues raised in the society is forced collection of money from parents at schools .
Kazakhstani sailors visited the plant for the production of underwater vehicles, studied their system and power, in addition, conducted training operations at the sea, maintenance at the on-board level.
This time, the competition was marked by the organization of musical groups from different regions and cities of the country.
over the past 5 years, Kazakhstan's rating on the prison population index has risen from 22nd to 49th place.
the audience will be provided with information on the activities of higher educational institutions and scientific organizations on innovative development of the city, including the creation and development of a non-profit joint-stock company of the Kazakh National Technical Research University named after k.i.satpayev.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan kairat lobster warmly met the members of the national team of Kazakhstan who came to the special Olympic Games, noting that the participants of the competition with a flag are true courage and courage.
underwater vehicles are designed to collect information about the relief of the bottom, the structure of the sediment surface, the presence of substances and dams at the bottom of the water.
- "On amendments and additions to certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on charity issues," aimed at bringing into compliance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On charity"
therefore, the first advice of the EU is to increase funds for education in the domestic gross product.
- This year it is planned to purchase 1350 tons of potatoes into the stabilization fund, of which 550 tons were sold on a futures basis.
all of them are built at the expense of private investment.
In his speech, he noted that in such conditions, the state will provide assistance to domestic enterprises if possible.
According to the press service, the exhibition presents the stages of personal formation of the first president of the country, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Following the meeting, the ICD management and members positively assessed the preparations for Expo 2017 and gave advice on further effective continuation of the work.
4 years ago, the official opening took place.
the startup "bolashak" contest consists of two stages.
today, buyers are engaged in the main trade from each other.
a headquarters was created with the involvement of local residents.
the name of the city comes from the female headdress - karkara.
Customs authorities in the process of customs clearance of goods devote most of their time to customs regulation. the customs authorities pay much attention to customs duties and taxes .
I immediately picked him up and finished in a month.
they bring him from America and Canada.
English is the official language of the centre.
Such observations are regularly carried out in the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
all this is the basis for improving the business.
coordinates the work of the chamber K. Martsinkevich.
Sadibekov paid special attention to the quality of building materials.
also listened to suggestions and shared the views of members of the community.
according to the results of the tournament, cups were awarded in nominations.
in cabinets it is allowed to dry clothes and shoes.
In order to implement the 79th step of the "100 Concrete Steps" program, the National Plan annually accepts 500 applicants who scored high points according to the results of the championship, kt, but did not receive grants from the state to train foundation training courses, "he said.
The discussion on the bill was attended by deputies of the Lazzat Turlash, Marat Takim, Lyudmila half-Batko, Manap Baben and defaulters of Mukash.
access to the hotline of the project - from mothers themselves, relatives and friends of mothers who wanted to abandon their child.
The material and technical base of schools is constantly being updated.
Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev and Chairman of the Board of the national nuclear company Kazatomprom Askar Zhumagaliyev signed a memorandum on the "development of local content."
Therefore, within the framework of the Miss Kazakhstan contest, we will hold a unique exhibition of works by Kazakhstani designers, which you can see on the competition platform during the final finish.
According to the information center, the meeting was attended by the chairman of the committee on the regulation of natural monopolies and the protection of competition of the Ministry of National Economy Serik Zhumangarin, representatives of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the competent authorities of several regions.
these companies signed memoranda with domestic manufacturers for the supply of clothing, electric pumps, reinforced concrete products, metal plastic devices, dairy products and other goods.
The main theme of the celebration is the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of Kha, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan. majaguls.
the centuries-old statehood of the Kazakh people, which has been developing since then, has developed as a modern republic of Kazakhstan.
establishment of partnership relations with the largest Kazakh bank is one of the main stages of preparation for EXPO-2017.	ceo of  nc " astana expo 2017 " akhmetzhan yessimov and ceo of kazkommertsbank magzhan auezov put their signatures to the document .
the parties agreed to cooperate in this direction.
to take strict control of the regional department of passenger transport and roads and responsible places.
the Spaniard, who played in 59 matches, scored 540 points and won 4 medals and became the absolute champion.
Glasenberg stressed that the further development of the field will expand the raw material base of the company and will contribute to improving the long-term efficiency of the lead-zinc industry.
cultural and entertainment events should take place not only on the territory of the exhibition, but also throughout the city.
In January of this year, we presented our proposals for revising the strategy.
This visit will allow large companies to take part in the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in Kazakhstan.
the tour operator invests a certain amount in this deposit in the bank. we have worked out the draft law introducing two measures guaranteeing the rights and safety for tourists .
they rotate a circle along a given route, perform combat exercises to destroy small sea and air targets, floating mines.
Shinhan Bank Kazakhstan is a universal bank that carries out the main banking operations in the financial market.
According to the company, the conference discussed the development of the packaging market of Kazakhstan, restrictions on the import into the territory of Kazakhstan of polyethylene and polypropylene products that do not meet safety requirements, the policy of forming internal prices for gestures used in the production of metal packaging, problems in the production of glass containers and others.
The company has created more than 100 jobs.
changes in the volumes of guaranteed and general transfers will limit the balance of the national fund in 2016-2018.
the book is devoted to historians, political scientists, students and readers interested in political issues.
representatives of Aktobe region will take part in the festive concert program and exhibition-fair of masters of applied arts.
One of the largest operators of the implementation of this program was Kazagrofinance.
seeing such a spectacle, hammers did not hide joy.
Currently, a site for laying the monument has been established, construction materials are being manufactured.
The law affects the formation of culture in public speeches, "said the majilisman.
Kyrgyzstan became the fifth state after Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia.
To date, the educational institution has trained more than 200 specialists of 2 armed forces of Kazakhstan.
In order to increase the level of professional teams, we change the structure of sports organizations, the principle of training and formation of the national team of the region and invite professional coaches as from a foreign state.
B.Saparbayev noted that support will be carried out only in the sphere of financial support from investors.
we had a number of markets closed that were not compliant for us.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed in accordance with the sales schedule.
Also scheduled are meetings with representatives of American companies jp morgan, guggenheim, chevron, microsoft and others.
A few years after the signing of memorandums of understanding, we work every day with long-term agreements. as we signed memoranda , the partnership with the nce became more efficient .
and for consumers - the choice of a wide range of goods and services.
According to the expert, this year sources will reach the planned volume of products.
In addition, the head of the region got acquainted with the construction of a 280-seat kindergarten, being built along the streets Riga - Razdezdnaya - Naberezhnaya.
The draft law is designed to eliminate the comments indicated in the report of the Eurasian Group on Combating the Legalization of Proceeds from Crime and the Financing of Terrorism, as well as to bring national legislation in line with international standards of the Financial Action Task Force against Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism (fatf).
today, much attention is paid to computer science.
Also seek to reduce the annual delivery of public services.
The main goal of this competition is to identify talented teachers of intellectual schools and the best pedagogical experience, stimulate the personal development of the teacher, support the use of innovative practices in training, respect the best teachers of intellectual schools.
these exercises will allow pilots to work out the skills of using rescue equipment in case of forced abandonment of aircraft, and specialists of search, rescue and parachute-landing services will perform the necessary tasks when evacuating people who survived the accident, "said the head of the search, rescue and parachute-landing service of OJSC SK RK Major Erzhan Abdikov.
Since August 6, 2015, Kyrgyzstan has joined the Eurasian Economic Union.
The Mayor of the capital emphasized that, given the climatic features of the city, the winter season will be long.
A. Daulbaev told the guests about the main directions of the supervisory and law enforcement activities of the Kazakh prosecutor's office, as well as about the work plan of the Academy of law enforcement agencies, which was opened at the Prosecutor General's Office.
He also expressed gratitude to the Dikhanovites for good work and wished large grain yields this year.
it is also necessary to take SMB support to a whole new level.
The parties paid close attention to a number of issues, such as ratification and signing of the Agreement on expanding cooperation and partnership between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the MEP, simplification of the visa regime, giving Kazakhstan the status of a state with a market economy.
According to Deputy Governor of the region Dimitri Garikov, within three months the working group carries out an analysis of the economic situation at the enterprises of the region supplying utilities.
According to him, thanks to the adoption of a new law in the country, it will be possible to monitor how much funds patrons spend on charity and gain access to specific data.
senators also impose restrictions on the review of judicial acts in cassation proceedings in cases related to the property interests of individuals, as well as legal entities, if there is a claim amount of less than two thousand monthly calculated indicators, the senator said.
The main goal of the event is to popularize the book, increase the spiritual and moral education of the younger generation, the desire of young people to read books, fiction.
based on this list, the parties will exchange mutual plans for the development of production.
The jury included pop stars known today, such as the producer of the will of the Tastambeks, Ivan Breyus and others.
3 children's homes of the region have a children's health center, where children relax annually.
total amount of investments in the development of this economy "Kazagrofinance" 1 498 439 228 tenge.
its purpose is to enable citizens with special opportunities to obtain a profession, be enrolled in a permanent place of work and, if possible, open their own business.
In turn, the Kazakh cosmonaut noted that Ayymbetov spent a month in space.
N.Nogayev reported to the Head of State on the implementation of state programs in the region.
we are all interested in improving the living conditions of citizens, "said B. Baibek.
The astronaut also reported to the head of state on the course of the visit to space and handed over the country's national flag, which he led with him to the international space station.
In addition, a republican Olympiad will be held in support of young people who have a multinational education, "A. Bail.
According to the coordinator of the regional training center, the judge of the regional court of gulnar, the number of judges with work experience of up to 3 years has now increased in Pavlodar region.
today we have 9 levels of management.
we have big plans.
what should be the basic principles that form the responsibility of the leaders of modern religion to humanity? how can the basic principles on which to build modern responsibility of religious leaders to humanity be designated ?
unfortunately, in world politics we are witnessing the use of military force.	as ye . karin noted , according to international experts , about 40 countries are threshold , meaning they can begin to use nuclear technology for military purposes .	0,64
The purpose of the event is to adapt young commanders to military service, master the necessary military skills and apply the knowledge learned by the educational institution.	the purpose is to adapt young officers to the military service , to train the necessary combat skills and apply knowledge into practice .	0,64
the property and dignity of the great steppe were added by poets and laid in the flour of kobyz and Jedi.	akyns ( poets ) always reflected love for native land in their melodies with dombra , kobyz and zhetygen .	0,64
in addition, the jury included invited guests: laureate of international competitions, soloist of Turkish and Italian state operas seda ortach, doctor of art history from Minsk Ekaterina dulova, professor of the Jerusalem Music Academy in clarinet class, first clarinet of the Israeli Opera Orchestra Mikhail Gurfinkel, general director of the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra Yair stern.	the team also includes invited guests : laureate of international competitions , soloist of the state opera in turkey and italy seda serdar ortac , doctor of arts from minsk yekaterina dulova , professor of jerusalem academy of music for clarinet , 1st clarinet orchestra of the israeli opera mikhail gurfinkel , ceo of jerusalem symphony orchestra yair stern .	0,64
wrestling in the Kazakh language, "as well as athletes from the neighboring North Kazakhstan region and paluans of many regions of the region.
Elena Tarasenko emphasized that the systematic implementation of the five institutional reforms of the president of the country, designed to strengthen our state, is directly related to an important factor, which is the "gender component."
About 300 deputies take part in the eku parliamentary assembly.
In October-November, work will begin on the spill of purulent stones, and in October-November the rise of wall steel structures of factories will begin.
admission to all republican military boarding schools, including the young guard, is carried out through the local military administration and after the 9th grade (starting from the 10th grade).
the contracting institution guarantees for twenty years the quality performance of this work.
athlete Victoria zabkina won two gold in running at a distance of 100 and 200 meters.
meetings allow you to clearly look at problems in the public administration system and solve them. such meetings can solve the problems that exist in the system of public administration .
Kazakhstan has developed many programs to diversify the economy, and a desire was made to launch them. there were many efforts to implement this program , but all of them had failed .
I wrote about it, and in general it had a significant impact on my life.
Also, 3 loan agreements were signed with the World Bank this year.
As T. Balykbayev noted, now the employment of young people in the first specialties is legally guaranteed.
The forum was attended by representatives of more than 100 Malaysian companies.
The draft law on combating corruption provides for amendments and additions to the legal framework and current legislation, "said R. Mukashev.
the main provisions of the bill were agreed with the government and received the support of the presidential administration.
Representatives of the foreign ministries determined that the ongoing mutual consultations are an important mechanism for promoting a comprehensive strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China.
the number of economically active people in small and medium-sized businesses increased by 5.2%. the economically active population increased by 5.2 % .
and research work. employees of the Institute of Archeology named after Margulan, the state archaeological reserve-museum "otyrar."
The purpose of the action is to promote road safety, comply with traffic rules and prevent traffic accidents.
The message of the head of state on the reform of society, public administration, including the judicial system, is a great step in the development of our country. the reform of the judicial system is an important step for the development of the country .
the purpose of licensing is not to limit the transport market, but to protect consumers from unscrupulous suppliers of vehicles, to ensure high quality standards that only official representatives of manufacturers in the field and service of car sales in Kazakhstan can guarantee, "the department said.
Kazakh women were able to demonstrate their skill and dedication in difficult times. kazakh woman always showed uncrushable will .
Besides, a. Zhumagaliyev added that the withdrawal of non-core enterprises from the company does not apply to enterprises engaged in production.
the competition commission reviewed the work within two weeks and assessed how deeply and clearly the participants were able to reveal the topic of the essay.
It is worth noting that here attention is paid to a small amount of emissions of harmful substances into the air.
we need their technology and science.
he was presented with special fire extinguishing equipment.
19.5 million tenge is also allocated for uninterrupted use of traffic control equipment.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks as of 09.11.2015 opened 1776 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.8 billion. Tenge, including 3.0 billion Tenge with payment to the budget of 30.0 billion Tenge.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks as of 10.11.2015 opened 1776 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.8 billion. Tenge, including 3.0 billion Tenge with payment to the budget of 30.0 billion Tenge.
we are talking about readmission of persons between the Benelux states of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Latvia.
In general, the project is aimed at increasing the number of forests in Kazakhstan and improving the environmental situation, the benefits of which will be seen by all residents.
On May 5, 2014, a solemn ceremony of signing a memorandum of understanding between the khan and the Anshka took place at the Palace of Peace and Accord.
The leaders of the two countries noted the common positions of Kazakhstan and Mongolia on many international issues and the high level of cooperation in the framework of multilateral organizations and forums.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan and the Romanian Diplomatic Institute.
in this case, we need to implement monetary policy accordingly and form a flexible course. we need to launch adequate monetary policy and ensure flexible exchange rate .
As the speaker noted, on behalf of the head of state, companies will be halved.
"sayat travel," "cruise," "almaty city tours," "miry travel" and "tourist," which became the official partners of the exhibition.
Also, the institution of the health department includes an advisory and diagnostic clinic, capable of receiving 150 people in a shift.
We must recognize that, unfortunately, individual citizens of CSTO member States join such radical structures and visit the hotbeds of war in the middle east and Afghanistan to engage in unlawful acts.	the president noted that one of the main issues is the potential threat from international terrorist and extremist organizations , and emphasized that it is necessary to support tajikistan , as it is located in the foreground of the fight against international terrorism .	0,64
the flight crew is in active preparation for the competition.	aircrews are intensively preparing for the contest .	0,64
there they were examined at the medical center of the field camp and placed the girls in the hostel, the guys in tents. the first arrived at the railway station of karaganda were representatives of western region - " zhas tenizshi " from mangystau region , military department of the caspian state university from aktau , the students of the military department of the north region university named after kozybayev frompetropavlovsk " - the statement reads .
The President of Kazakhstan also congratulated the Chinese people on the 70th anniversary of the victory in the war against the Japanese invaders and Beijing's conquest of the right to host the 2020 Winter Olympics.
According to him, administrative-procedural justice consists in the consideration of disputes between administrative bodies, including a specialized court, citizens together with representatives of state authorities.
their main goal is the training of military officers for their military purpose as military personnel of the military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deputy Mayor of the city noted the timely readiness of educational, health and social institutions and drew the attention of the heads of these institutions to this issue.
asphalt recycling has many priorities, increases environmental care, economy, as well as roadway stability.
Today, processing industries and procurement organizations pay VAT from all turnover, as they receive raw materials from their farms. at present , processing plants and procurement organizations pay vat from the total turnover as they purchase raw materials in their own private farms and peasants / farmers which are not vat payers .
In addition, during the round table, the idea of ​ ​ creating a mobile application about the work of the peak was voiced.
- What areas of cooperation of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria do you highly appreciate?
In addition, the official Kazakhstan pavilion will be organized at the Venice Biennale for the first time, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
third-class housing for comfort is put into clean decoration, elevators, intercom phones work, and a network of communications has been laid.
According to him, an association of entrepreneurs has been created under the KHA.
The Almaty committee on applications has Olympic prize-winners and champions of Kazakhstan.
In turn, Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov stressed that negotiations on the participation of European companies in the project will be held when the feasibility study of the project is ready.
In addition, according to him, reports of traffic police leaders to akimats and maslikhats are regularly introduced at least twice a year, as well as once a year to the population.
thus, people will be able to get a new specialty at their enterprise if necessary.
registration of citizens of these countries at the entrance to the territory of the republic is carried out at the Kazakhstan border checkpoints.
As follows from the report, within the framework of the industrialization map, chemical enterprises make a significant contribution to the country's economy.
In October of this year, he invited the countries that are members of ISIS to participate in the planned general assembly of akiu in Astana.
Six directions are defined in the agreement, "the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said.
we need a whole force to further develop business ties, a common story will allow us to focus on close partnership. we all need a new impetus to the expansion of business contacts and the geographical proximity of our countries , common history can count on closer scale cooperation .
The press conference will be attended by the head of the Center for Joint Art of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an abenova rose, a latif kazbek artist, an artist Alexander kondurov, a doctor of art history, a professor Dmitry severyukhin and a philanthropist Yuri saulid.
determining the center's development strategy, adopting the center's acts in the form of decisions.
the first stop of the expedition is burabai.
Recall that the final of the turkvizyon-2015 song contest will be held in December in Istanbul.
practical stages of command and staff exercises are carried out at the facilities of Kazphosphat LLP on the second day of exercises.
at the same time, production increased by 0.9% and compared to last year, growth amounted to 44.6%.
We want to note that the achievements and successes at the academy are highly appreciated in the world.
exercises were conducted during the day and night in cooperation with the air defense forces.
however, for milk, pasta and flour products, a significant priority of the participants was noted.
As the Minister noted, in both cases, the subject of legalization submits the corresponding declaration and provides the necessary documents to the state revenue bodies.
for this purpose, it is proposed to use best practices in law enforcement and public security abroad.
storage for a year after the transfer of the term deposit to a special bank account for compensation. the main condition for the payment of compensation is to maintain fixed-term deposits for 1 year after the transfer to a special bank account : to obtain this compensation the investor should keep in the second-tier bank for 1 year .
this initiative is supported.
the total length of the road is timed to coincide with the festive date.
In recent years, fertility is normal.
our manufacturers should consider the quality of the products produced, the problems impeding them, and the cost of the goods themselves.
servicemen of these branches of the army must be constantly prepared for combat missions.
a number of changes clearly regulate the situation in the communal sphere and provide for the elimination of shortcomings in this area, the elimination of inefficiencies of subjects of natural monopolies, and meeting the needs of the population in quality issues in this area.
It is noted that today work is underway to conclude loan agreements with second-tier banks.
According to him, the activities of the ministry are based on the implementation of agreements with large companies.
our republic has been cooperating with your country since the first days of independence, when the 24th anniversary is celebrated in December, the people of Kazakhstan are grateful for the constant support provided to the development of our sovereignty and economy.
The head of state noted that like all regions of Kazakhstan, the Kyzylorda region is flourishing.
the seminar was organized in a very accessible format.
To this end, Kazakh judges were sent to Singapore and Singapore in March this year.
Official visits by President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko are also expected.
Following the meeting, a protocol was signed.
Following the meeting, plans to raise funds from the capital to the state budget and issues of combating the shadow economy were discussed.
The exercise of the permanent brotherhood-2015 completed the implementation of the Plan of main activities of operational, combat training of air defense forces and means for this year.
In the picturesque tract where the village of Kostobe is located, a residential complex, a dining room and play rooms are equipped.
this is the eighth time.
Recall that on the territory of the city the construction of a wind power station is underway.
materials on the sheet will be published in the state language.
this situation, kha outside the borders, exists not only in theory, but also in practice.
According to him, citizens choose one of 3 areas for legalizing their assets.
for example, the general contractor of the project entered into an agreement with Do Yukms LLP on the supply of anchor bolts and the supply of engine oil with hill LLP, the chairman of nadloc JSC noted.
we are not the people we were yesterday.
for a total amount of 1.5 billion tenge.
the average crop is 41.2 centners per hectare.
they visited the aul, arykbalyk rural districts of the region and met with members of the local community.
The opening ceremony of the complex was attended by the secretary of the regional maslikhat Akmaral Alnazarova, the deputy akim of the region rauan kenzhekhanovich, the head of the regional department of physical culture and sports, the akim of the region najmadin shamurats, the chairman of the district council of veterans tortured the bekbans and deputies of the regional, district maslikhats, the report said.
With the help of this action, the organizers wanted to pay attention to the fact that it is very important for all road users to prevent mortality and injuries, potential threats and road accidents and illegal actions on the roads.
we can achieve our goals by supporting each other and communicating with each other.
According to S. Ntemisov, compacted gas is a fuel for the engine.
On the theme of the preparation of EXPO-2017 and the Almaty Winter Universiade, Austrian partners also expressed their readiness to contribute to the development of Kazakhstan's tourism potential.
He noted that the Merailaya Family competition is a motivation for young people to create a strong family.
To implement the program, the ministry "aims to solve such problems as ensuring sanctions potential, preventing challenges, promoting healthy nutrition, a healthy lifestyle, providing quality medical services," the statement said.
therefore, the plant does not want to lose its regular consumers, but, on the contrary, plans to enter the markets of western Kazakhstan and Russia.
Within the framework of uiidmb, the production of about 1000 parts necessary for the oil and gas industry has been launched, this process is actively developing today, "said M. Pshembayev.
In Kazakhstan, there is a system for recycling tires in all regions.
for example, just conducting an election campaign is an economy, how many health resorts, how many polling stations, all this is directly related to the economy.
The best performers of not only Kazakhstan, but also foreign countries perform on the stage of the festival.
The procedure for issuing permits in accordance with the Regulation on the import and export of precious stones to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan is carried out through an administrative procedure, such as state control.
this is very good, because for the first time in many years the elections were held very calmly and the people once again demonstrated their wisdom.
general growth was achieved due to the growth of the production industry, investments in the industry in large volumes, and the growth of the livestock production industry.
Today, Kazakhstan is taking comprehensive measures aimed at supporting entrepreneurship, private business is the country's main economy, and also carries out most of the budget revenues.
the parties discussed plans for further joint work.
among them are the introduction of new international statistical standards, a national population inventory and preparations for the 2020 round of housing stock, a union that forms rights in the field of statistics.
the experience of the country, which became the first country in the world to completely switch to the use of renewable energy sources, is very valuable for the exhibition.
It is noted that specialists of East Kazakhstan region conducted about 1000 children in young combat courses.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstan continues institutional reforms aimed at improving the business climate.
The results of the work in this area are considered by the district and regional commissions for juvenile affairs.
He also stressed that Kazakh-German ties meet the interests of the peoples of the two countries and contribute to strengthening international stability.
the seminar was organized by the regional hub in the sphere of public service in the capital, the organization of economic cooperation and development, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan with the support of the Higher School of State Policy of Nazarbayev University and the UN.
Deputy Governor of the region noted that this year there will be no problems with the coverage of textbooks.
At the end of eight months, the production of the processing industry increased by 0.5%, "said A. Zherzhanov.
slow megacities lead by deposits of individuals, but the southern capital is gradually losing its position.
According to experts of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the sustainable foreign economic policy of the capital contributed to Kazakhstan to take a leading position in central Asia and become a regional partner of large multinational states.
In addition, during the meeting, young police officers presented a "certificate of honor" and a "letter of thanks" to the akim of Kyzylorda region.
Deputy Prime Minister together with Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Vladimir Bozhko flew over the glacier and moraine lake, which caused floods.	deputy prime minister and deputy minister of internal affairs of kazakhstan vladimir bozhko flew over the glacier and moraine lakes , which have become reason for the mudflow .	0,64
it is necessary to attract all subsoil users, they must contribute.	it should involve all subsoil users , who have to contribute thereto .	0,64
Entrepreneurs of the capital who plan and/or implement their projects in the capital can participate in this program, "he said.
we are building all the forces for the release of Kazakhstan's products to the regiments of other countries.
Following the negotiations, the following documents were adopted:
He noted that our production base is located in East Kazakhstan region with growth.
our project in Kazakhstan is aimed at improving energy efficiency, "r.lamek.
upon the signal, the ship transitions to the appropriate sector and begins to destroy small sea and air targets in the form of a luminous aircraft bomb, as well as a surface target in the form of a floating mine.	at a signal the ship navigates in the relevant sectors and proceeds to hit small sea and air targets in the form of glowing bombs , as well as the above-water targets in the form of floating mines .	0,64
According to Major Leonid Dudkin, head of the parachute training center from the scene, the landing was successfully completed.	after the landing , using laser illumination device , the troops carried out air guidance for bombing fight .	0,64
Also, a review walk was organized for interested citizens, during which the work of this unit was presented.	it was encouraging that many young people showed great interest and expressed desire to work in the department of government revenue .	0,64
Note that the awarding of the winners will take place in the new academic year.	the competition took place in astana , almaty , karaganda , kostanay , taraz , shymkent , taldykorgan , and semey .	0,64
Throughout the month, all libraries in the city host book exhibitions dedicated to the history of symbols.	also all city libraries will hold book exhibition  higher values of my country " during the month .
According to 15 inspections, no violations were detected.
meat and dough are cooked in separate boilers.
in general, maternal, child mortality is declining.
identification and investigation of economic crimes, concealment of money, recovery of criminal proceeds and assets.
The elaboration of the preparation and conduct of joint special military operations in crisis areas is adopted by relevant and important factors of modern geopolitical changes.
cooperation within the African Union and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation was discussed in particular.
funds raised contributed to the provision of assistance to akmola and perinatal centers of Kyzylorda region.
The company employs 20 people.
4,097 children are enrolled in pre-school preparatory classes.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also informed about the state of grain crops and the course of the harvesting campaign.
The event was organized by the Department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in the East Kazakhstan Region together with Shakarim State University, the information center reports.
this, in turn, prevents the fair determination of the winner of the competition, "B. Nurabaev added.
The International Earth Science Olympiad is an annual competition among secondary school students in subjects such as geology, oceanography and astronomy.
Provide for the liability specified in the legislation.
Hong Kong (7), Qatar (14), Taiwan (15), baa (17), Malaysia (18), Saudi Arabia (25), South Korea (26), China (28).
they relate to the ratification of the intergovernmental readmission agreement with Lithuania, Russia and the executive protocol on the procedure for implementing the readmission agreement with Russia, as well as the agreement between Kazakhstan and Japan on the promotion and protection of investments.
thanks to these works, gold amounted to 2.8 thousand tons, copper 68 thousand tons, non-ferrous metals 78 thousand tons, iron and manganese 7.5 tons, "said B. Nurabaev.
During the event, the rector of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi, a mutan scientist presented the Secretary General with an honorary doctorate of the university.
The competition is organized to conduct events within the framework of the propaganda of the state language, traditions and history.
According to K. Zhakupov, in the future our country is interested in establishing mutually beneficial cooperation with this state in the fields of agriculture, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas and other economic priorities.
the traditions of the fair of the great silk road are preserved in the ethnopark, an example of the eastern market is established.
The Partnership for Peace Training Center of the Military Institute of the Ground Forces provides both theoretical and practical training for peacekeeping fighters.
they work under all conditions.
this building is built in the classical style, but Kazakh national symbols are also widely represented in it.
it was in the final conclusion that high results were achieved and the general combat mission was completed.
at the same time, it is provided for the introduction of 5 years of experience related to judicial proceedings in the specialties of the secretary of the court session, the prosecutor, and the defender.
According to him, it is necessary to intensively conduct information work to promote EXPO-2017.
Members of the advisory committee proposed to introduce into the draft agreement regarding the Customs Code an article on the mandatory provision of information to the carrier about the structure and format of goods considered by the commission, the report said.
As noted, the main costs in this area are the cost of raw materials of polymer products and electricity.
Afghan experts noted transport and transit projects.
as a result of the project, international standards were introduced and long-term institutional capacity was formed in various areas.
referral to an individual, that is, required of him, an individual requirement and specific participation.
Prevention of corruption is a priority of the Anti-Corruption Act. the priority of the bill is the corruption prevention .
now they will be able to receive high-quality education in their yards without traveling far, "said the head of the education department of the Mangistau region.
the building will meet modern requirements, and white negligent will provide high-quality, system services.
The forms of declarations, the rules for their completion and the timing of their submission are also defined.
If now the court case is considered for 7 days, then a new apu will be considered for 15 days.
in addition, positive developments in secondary education in the region should be emphasized.
As of July 1 of the current year, the number of unemployed people registered with employment agencies amounted to 2 thousand 823 people, which is 2014% compared to the same period of 1.7 years.
It should be noted that the purpose and objectives of this event are support measures for orphans, the promotion of a healthy lifestyle, and the involvement of children in all-around activities.
Speaking about the history of the assembly, the deputy noted the role of the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev in building and supporting inter-ethnic harmony in Kazakhstan.
winner of the tournament on the Saryarka cycle track and winner of the championship belt and the tituyak prize.
The 100-step program is the clearest algorithm for implementing five institutional reforms.
We will install about 80 such stops.
At the forum, in the interests of the Kazakh people, the heads of the best universities - members of the consortium of university rectors for training personnel for Iidb-2 worked in six main areas of the economy.
Later, Sergey Kulagin got acquainted with the construction of the dam and the renovated complex for road and secondary schools, and also met with local residents in the building of the old educational institution.
The production will be attended by 3,000 people.
projects of small and medium-sized businesses were approved at the next meeting of the regional coordinating council in order to participate in the retail guarantee program, which eliminates the lack of collateral necessary for the state to receive interest subsidies from second-level banks.
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakh women have every opportunity to prove themselves from a new side in the socio-economic, socio-political and cultural-humanitarian spheres.
What trail will I leave behind?
The conferences were attended by about 300 civil servants and specialists of the land relations and cadastre service from 56 countries.
thirdly, the head of state instructed to fully implement the chicken program by 2020.
The purpose of the forum is to officially declare its philosophy in the program of transformation through information technologies. the purpose of the forum - to define a philosophy of transformation through information technology .
the Swiss audience warmly received the orchestra and praised the performing skills of young musicians.
It is planned that the parties will sign a number of international agreements in the field of law enforcement and emergency response.
Akim of the district asylbek ismagambetov got acquainted with the progress of work on the sports ground under construction.
According to the press service of the KA, a meeting with residents was organized to familiarize themselves with the goals and tasks of the expedition in the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party in the city of Bulaevo.
Solutions such as energy conservation of the facility were also tested, an information system for energy conservation and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions in the facility sector was developed, and tested in the capital.
The swearing-in ceremony is an impeccable service for the State and the people. the oath is sacred oath of allegiance to serve the people and country .
the question arises as to what the reporting State should be, at what level it should operate.
a commission had been set up and had begun its work.
we have come to a time when careful consideration of draft acts aimed at amending existing legislation is required.
One of the best services of the mobile government is the release of a SIM card with the ability to record an electronic digital signature.
everyone made sure that the industrial program has a strong impact on the regions.
I work in the ethics commission of the chairmanship of the court, and, as practice shows, many complaints against judges are unfounded, "said A. Sarenbaev.
Kazakhstan has been and remains a consistent and active participant in intelligence activities in the field of military-political measurements and attaches great importance to the cooperation of States parties in the framework of explosive ordnance disposal.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan answered questions of the audience interested in the modern life of Kazakhstan.
- 31,393 residential facilities worth 256.1 billion tenge
It should be noted that more than 200 specialists in the field of dogs will take part in the forum.
this project is implemented with the participation of the EBRD, which provides loans in tenge on preferential terms.
after the book was published, the world view of the population increased significantly. due to " in the stream of history " book , written by nursultan nazarbayev , the consciousness of the citizens began raising .
Also included in the project are fountains, scenes, new rides.
Therefore, there will be no problems in the heating season, "said Yerzhan Abdykalykov, head of the regional energy and housing and communal services department.
the theater is not even inferior in its technical capabilities to the famous theaters of the world, and in some possibilities it even exceeds it.
School-lyceum No. 77 is Kazakh-speaking, but here, along with the state language, Russian and English are taught.
teachers of basic schools have developed and tested curricula in accordance with international standards and undergraduate requirements.
Currently, 84 people are studying from Karaganda region under the future program.
the capital is the heart of our country, the symbol of our independence, the pride of our people. such a rapid development is caused by of the personal attention of the leader of the nation - the head of state nursultan nazarbayev and selfless work of every citizen of kazakhstan .
the battalion, rising on a morning alert, was tasked with breaking through the protected area and advancing to the territory where conditional enemies were concentrated, trying to shoot down their ammunition.
the first thing that the convict himself should want, and his will is not enforced.
there were also good indicators in the Mendykar, Sarykol and Uzunkol regions, where an average of 15.8 kg of production was received per hectare.
It will conclude an agreement with the participants of the exhibition and present the current level of preparation of the exhibition.
today the bill is under consideration in the Majilis.
it is also planned to establish agricultural cooperatives in the organizational and legal form of a production cooperative that allows participation in all forms of private ownership.
winners were awarded valuable prizes.
currently it is the only enterprise in Kazakhstan in its segment.
Recall that this service writes a prefix on a new zip code, divides it into various notebooks and at the same time starts the search engine.
it was erected in 2008 in honor of the 270th anniversary of Khan Valihan.
Recall that this is the 2nd in a row in the regional center.
According to M. Ashimbayev, Kazakhstan provides for an increase in the availability of information to 70%.
women with manufacturing enterprises managing the expo sign, for which the first competition was presented.	as she said , a memorandum on cooperation between the national commission for women and nc  astana expo-2017 " was signed in may 2015 .
Chairman of criminal proceedings of the Supreme Court Abay Rakhmetulin, Supreme Court judge Nurzhan Kayypzhan and secretary of the Union of Central Judges of Kazakhstan Sansyzbek Raiumbayev will take part in the press conference.
a tax declaration of personal income has been introduced in the country.	the number of available human resources is not designed to service such a large number of declarants ,  - the chairman of the committee said .
Armenian singer took third place.
Assessing and analysing the main risks to children and young people in order to develop an effective rehabilitation system. in order to prevent suicide , we need to analyze the main risk factors and the protection of children and young people .
the world community can solve these problems. the solution to these and other complex issues are quite capable for the international community , and in this respect the potential of the charter of the united nations is far from exhausted .
I want to note three important results achieved following the negotiations.
According to him, the document provides for the expansion of approaches to access to information.
in this regard, a national multimedia operator "tulpart-talgo" was chosen.
foreign mediation of various types will be presented here. there are various models of mediation , and we plan to develop approaches to a model of mediation in kazakhstan .
By the decree of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, our country celebrates the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, today is the award ceremony, tomorrow is family day - all this is closely connected.
According to him, representatives of public organizations want light and medium-level crimes committed under the age of 18 years to be classified.
therefore, we need to expand the list of priority industries, "said Mr. Lesbekov.
The monument depicts the names of everyone who defended his homeland.
I am pleased that Kazakhstan's goods and the work of our compatriots are in demand.
During the implementation of the Sarats-2 project, the water area of ​ ​ the small island is 4645 square meters.
the main role was played by the business roadmap.
As the expert of the Supreme Court noted, the draft code establishes justice and independence of judges.
In the history of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan there were no such competitions in such a large volume as before curling.
The competence of the commission is to consider problems arising from anthropogenic and natural environmental impacts.
modernity is once again changing the evaluation criteria.
One of the innovations of the bill is that the heads and deputies of local police services will be appointed by the akim of the region on the proposal of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan and with the approval of the regional maslikhat. this is one of the improvements - akim of the region on the proposal of the ministry of interior and in coordination with the regional maslikhat will appoint the chief and the deputy of the local police service .
in the new form, unconditional and conditional cash assistance is divided into 2 types.
for example, during the 1 period of 2017 year, employees of State institutions, as well as national companies and State enterprises represent the declaration as a prepared category of individuals.
at the same time, we can talk about the need for wheat in Kazakhstan, since it contains a lot of gluten.
Therefore, he expressed interest in strengthening ties with Almaty region for the development of these areas.
the history of our congress is very rich, so I propose to create a museum of peace and harmony in the capital, in this building (palace of peace and harmony. our congress has a rich history ; we have a solid experience , established traditions , communication and understanding , contacts with other sites of interaction of religion and civilizations , so i propose to set up the museum of peace and accord in the palace of peace and concord .
work is underway to improve the skills of the personnel of the enterprise.
the metal price index fell by 45.5%.
the Higher School of Public Policy of Nazarbayev University and the Kuan yu Public Policy School of Singapore National University are strategic partners.
during this difficult winter period, we had three choices. it is necessary to tell directly , it is a compulsory measure , there is no another alternative .
In addition, in order to become one of the astronauts, it is necessary, first of all, to have good health.
At the same time, as noted by a.zhaksybekov, the cost of each stop has not yet been determined.
Recall that the capital is hosting an international conference "Ways to make unified decisions and standards of the assembly sphere in achieving social security goals."
A. Ayymbetov also noted that there will still be a blue flag of Kazakhstan in space.
On the same day, at secondary school No. 58, the swearing-in ceremony of the cadets of 58 students of 5 experimental classes of the school took place.
On the eve of the Day of the Medical Worker, 1,135 people from all regions of the republic received departmental awards.
During the month, round tables, debates and discussions on the prevention of the use of psychoactive substances will be organized in all regions of Kazakhstan, in which famous actors, athletes and singers will take part.
the launch of a new line is ready, new models of the hyundai brand will be assembled in one workshop on peugeot, ssangyong cars.
The history of national law of Kazakhstan begins with the emergence of Kazakh statehood, that is, the second half of the 15th century.
we have successfully concluded negotiations on accession to the World Trade Organization.
macroeconomic indicators indicate this.
in his opinion, the high level of conference participants indicates the great reputation of Kazakhstan in the world, as well as how states perceive the danger posed by extremists.
Also, tamara Duissenova spoke about the new state program for the development of healthcare of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Health" for 2016-2019.
According to the majilisman, this document provides for amendments and additions to the land code, namely, the issue of providing land plots for the construction of objects.
we may not be thinking about it right now.
In addition, the Vice Minister focused on issues that hinder the advancement of this industry.
Currently, we are working on the formation of export logistics of finished products of the Tulpar-Talgo plant, we have those markets that are in demand precisely for the products of this plant.
we believe that the award will be a significant contribution of the fund in support of domestic literature.
We can also get school uniforms in our country, for this you do not need to order abroad. we have developed a strategic plan that will improve the economy of the whole country .
the parties intend to establish the production of telephone exchanges and telephone sets in the capital and cities of Zhezkazgan.
One of the speakers of the forum is the state corporation of Russia - chairman of the housing and communal services reform fund. one of the reporters is the representative from russian company reforming housing and communal services .
In this direction, party activists must always go forward in the fight against corruption on the principle of openness, monitor the accountability of state decrees to the population, he said.
this goal can be achieved only thanks to stability and unity, and there are enough factors to destabilize the situation without this, "said A. Sadvakasova.
The achievements of the project are important for the further development of the system in the health sector. densaulyk " state program will be a part of the project .
For 1-2 days we grow corn for silage purposes, then millet.
In September of this year, it is planned to send a train to the Istanbul route along such a thkb route.
therefore, primary organizations have become the main pillar of our party in the life of the country, a true force.
According to the Vice Minister, the legalization of property will be simplified within the framework of the law.
we'll clear 26 streets downtown.	petropavlovsk city is divided into 7 roads .	0,65
It is also noted that the results of the raid will be sent to the Governor's Office of the city and the prosecutor's office.	systematically we spread fire safety rules through the media ,  - the senior engineer concluded .
all objectionable parties should meet at the same negotiating table, enter into a deal to protect civilians and preserve peace.
in this regard, the French side will be given the opportunity to choose the location of the pavilion first.
Kazakhstan and Ukraine agreed to advance work on the transition from simple trade to the creation of new joint ventures.
As you know, many Kazakhstanis like to rest in the heat lake, but the issue of crossing the border was blocked by many citizens, so it is beneficial for both sides, "the deputy said.
Kazakh greenhouse technologies are currently negotiating to receive a loan from Kazagrofinance JSC in order to receive agricultural machinery in the amount of 233 thousand euros.
in the second version - by means of a warning, comes to the customer's personal account on the egov.kz portal, the client confirms or denies data transfer.
The purpose of this document is to develop and strengthen relationships on technology transfer and the exchange of information and experience in the automotive industry.
turning to tarhics is a serious solution, because in historiography there is a need to know the place of our people and their culture, what tasks they face. appeal to the story is always a sensible step , because there is the need to understand our people and culture of the historic flow .
According to the jury, the structure of the Kazakh Pavlionne corresponds to the topic of EXPO-2015 and is presented in detail by the state.
the more Kazakhstan is surrounded by land, the more island developing countries are surrounded by the ocean, which limits the pace of economic development. "
the golden eagle symbolizes the desire of a young sovereign state to the top of world civilization.
today the history of Kazakhstan is important, and it is clear that it has borne fruit today.
According to D. Ashimbayev, in the conditions of the formation of a market economy, the problem was precisely in this control system.
Recall that in the capital there is a solemn ceremony of raising the state flag with the participation of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as presenting officer chases to cadets.
according to the results of the draw, the tankers of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will begin with a yellow tank in the fourth line.
The plan is implemented in order to coordinate information and methodological interaction with the competent authorities of the parties in the field of statistics.
Currently, textbooks are loaded from the printing house.
easy registration of the enterprise, obtaining permits for construction and connection to electric networks, obtaining loans, protecting the rights of minority investors.
It is also worth noting that in the district it is planned that camps without food and 3417 children will be organized at 37 schools at a time.
The family of large musical Kenzhebaevites of the village of Zhetykol, Syrymsky district, won the regional competition of the national competition.
Within the framework of popularizing a careful attitude to nature and the environment for the younger generation, the forest-steppe sturgeon fish breeding plant organized the action "The future of the Caspian sturgeon in your hands."
Your initiative - the Eurasian Economic Union - creates conditions for the effective development of our economies.
excursions were also conducted to the akims to the fire and technical center of the fire and rescue service.
after putting them into operation, all products of the plant receive markings of compliance with Euro-4 and Euro-5 standards.
The document also notes the mobilization of efforts of religious and political figures to solve the problems of poverty, hunger, epidemics, unemployment and other threats.
The head of state instructed to carry out large-scale work to optimize tariff policy within the EAEU.
As part of the smart service, there is an online subscription system for a doctor, an appointment with a clinic through the terminal, as well as the launch of automated workstations for doctors and registrars.
The sons of the Ainur Djugunisova themselves chose this path and received a grant themselves.
this is a very rational decision aimed at ensuring the unity of the law.
our fruitful business relationships are becoming an example for other countries.	in addition , the mayor noted the significant potential for cooperation in all sectors of the urban economy .	0,65
At the championship held in the capital, schoolchildren from East Kazakhstan region presented the project "Silk carpets with artificial knitting," which aroused interest among experienced entrepreneurs and international experts.
the main value of these families lies in the preservation and transfer from generation to generation of spiritual and moral values, based on a patriotic feeling, respect for the elder and nobility.
For the participants of the conference, a book exhibition of scientific works and studies of famous Kazakh authors in the field of interethnic and interfaith relations, spiritual culture and traditions of the people of Kazakhstan received from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was organized.
Which of the polygons in Figures 1-5 are a record of the correct pyramid in the form of the capital's palace of peace and harmony.
We opened our eyes to many objects that have yet to be studied, "said Natalya Kalashnikova.
Independent international observers from the Indian armed forces will monitor the progress of the competition.
He also noted that the project will be successful only if countries in the multimedia transport chain - the members of the committee will work together and eventually provide high-quality services, short-term delivery, and a competitive tariff policy.
It is worth noting that in the caton-pine region, Korean doctors chose two children aged 5-6 years who will undergo free surgery at the expense of the clinic.
I am sure that thanks to such dialogue platforms and relations between the business circles of the two countries, cooperation with neighboring Caspian countries will increase.
that is, wholesale purchases under the contract, which means that the price is approved by the seller himself depending on the market situation, "explained W. Korab.
Today, Kazakhstani servicemen are studying at military universities of the national liberation army of China.
It should be noted that in Akmola region there is a phased repair of all orphanages.
Despite the measures taken, there is still a need to train specialists to provide services in the non-core sphere, "the deputy said.
Starting September, Kazakhstanis will be able to purchase SIM cards with a mobile electronic digital signature.
they are developed for the most dangerous products.
I constantly monitored the construction of the complex.
dog handlers were pleased with the results of their adoptive parents.
At the end of the event, the winners were awarded valuable prizes.
In December, the largest delegation of Kazakhstani businessmen visiting China was developed, where the business community of the two countries met and discussed topical issues.
I am ready to accept any of their preferences, will support them as far as I can, and I have told them. "
as part of the overhaul project of the tone-2 oil pipeline as a whole, 185 km of pipeline are planned to be replaced.
The purpose of the event is to promote the creation of voluntary fire brigades in the settlements of Akmola region, improve the professional skills of specialists and train them.
on store shelves, residents will see amal-bio goods in a branded box made from local clean fruits.
For 4 years, the company, which produces about 50 spare parts with the outer frame of the greenhouse, has been assembling and launching it.
This room is equipped with the necessary equipment.
the artist and stage designer of this performance is Olga Shaishmelashvili, known to Kazakhstani viewers for her work in the ballet "Wormwood."
"- concluded Bauyrzhan Baibek.
The high level of cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Design Bureau on aspects of refugee rights protection was also noted.
In general, the parties noted the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey and their readiness to make every effort to increase bilateral trade.
The volume of deposits in megacities for 2015 April 2011 increased by 1.9 times, this year Karaganda region and East Kazakhstan region - by 1.8 times and 2.7 times from the regions.
Specialists of kgs "uk" explained to the participants of the business forum the possibilities of Kazakh devices "kazeosat-1" and "kazeosat-2."
in particular, it is engaged in improving methods of teaching the state language, research, analysis of advanced technologies, the introduction of modern technologies and linguistics techniques.
Recall that in order to protect the domestic labor market, the Government of Kazakhstan annually establishes quotas for attracting foreign specialists to the republic.
Firstly, we must deal with issues of modernization and reduction of energy efficiency of our manufactured products in order for the economy of Kazakhstan to be competitive.
This bill will contribute to the regulation of charitable activities in the country.	these draft laws have been developed by deputies of the majilis and reflected in the national plan -  100 concrete steps . "
To date, work on three berths has been completed.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the meeting R.Zhoshybayev held a meeting with the Deputy Secretary General, the administrator of the United Nations development program.
According to the results of the negotiations, an agreement was reached on organizing an information tour in order to familiarize themselves with the infrastructure of the regions of Kazakhstan and tourist offers.
there are no copies, that is, all questions need to be adjusted to themselves, take into account local conditions and local priorities, "said the professor.
two bronze awards were received by the master of sports of international class in weight up to 74 kg, the world champion junior sergeant userbayev and the prize-winner of the world championship in weight up to 65 kg corporal azazazsakayev.
then until August, the winning companies will be given time to prepare for a large exhibition at the Rio Olympics, "he said.
Due to the sustained economic growth of the 60th years of the 20th century Japan underwent environmental pollution.
He called for active participation in the Ukrainian business environment in a number of investment areas. i invite ukrainian business community to participate in the following areas : the first - a program of industrial-innovative development .
experts also heard lectures on the rules for planning airports and design, requirements for limiting obstacles, designations and restrictions depending on the type of aircraft.
mediation - dispute resolution without court participation.
Within the framework of the law on cooperation, small farmers share the opportunities of concessional lending, in connection with which they will have the opportunity to compete in the foreign and domestic markets, "said E. Nsherbayev.
In addition, as the head of the department noted, according to the results of the seminar, it is planned to develop proposals for improving the legislative framework in the field of rational use of natural capital.
its creation can be carried out thanks to a strict schedule or a specific plan. there is no strict timetable and utopian plans .
the festival program includes an exhibition of handicrafts, a concert of folk music, as well as various master classes in which those who wish will be able to work with skin, skin, silver, soil, and desired material.
We like that in the areas remote from the border, the department of kha is opened.
for the development of investor work, regional security.
In turn, Karim Massimov praised the level of bilateral cooperation, noting the relevance of the application of international standards, regulations and proposals in matters of animal health, developed in our country in connection with Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
for future officers, such travel is a great experience.
in addition, it is necessary to improve the skills of personnel resources, reduce the energy efficiency of resources and production. we also need to find the solution of advanced training of human resources and to reduce resource and energy consumption .
in addition, freelance foreign managers are hired on a contractual basis and according to statutory procedures, for which special procedures are provided.
Of course, the results of work in this direction will be beneficial to both sides, "said akim of Mangistau region Alik Aidarbayev.
Since the beginning of the year, 776 tons of milk have been produced in the region, including 55 thousand tons of milk.
the regional mood competition is held for the first time, the organizers plan to hold it traditionally.
The head of state noted the importance of increasing the performance of industrial enterprises, using the capacities of built facilities.
the basis for this should be the trust relations that have developed between Kazakhstan and a number at a high political level.
In turn, Vladimir Kravtsov supported his colleague and instructed the foreign economic department to prepare relevant documents.
the widespread use of this type of court proceedings is also associated with the coordinated actions of the structural units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
In anticipation of the new school year, as part of the organization of this action, we pay special attention to the organization of safe and convenient transportation of students in order to resolve the issue of access to education for children in villages where there are no schools. expecting the new school year as part of the campaign we would like to pay attention to the organization of safe and comfortable busing of students to solve the problem of access to education for children of the villages which do not have schools .
The mineral resource complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan receives support by increasing exploration activities. mineral resources complex is supported by the exploration .
aa. Idrissov noted Kazakhstan's interest in all strengthening and development of the Turkic Council and expressed his readiness to provide the necessary support to the Kazakh side in activities aimed at their cultural and humanitarian rapprochement on the basis of the common history of Turkic-speaking states, ethnic and linguistic proximity.
We have established a plant for the production of solar panels.
In his speech, he noted that the trend of regional development in the field of standardization is natural.
the exhibition is held once every two years.
we have a large supply of coal, and we would like to establish its processing.
we were able to combine the requirements of the world trade organization and the Eurasian Economic Union.
it includes outpatient care, inpatient care (excluding socially significant diseases), inpatient care, restorative medical measures, medical rehabilitation, palliative care, nursing examination and high-tech care, - said Duissenova.
however, compared to today, the difference is insignificant, according to news agencies.
Selection for the competition will last until the evening.
children were interested in the canine period.
G. Abdykalikova also announced the main areas of activity of the national museum, corresponding to the global trends in the development of modern museum business in the world.
to do this, it is necessary to change the structure of agriculture, the core of which should be strong cooperatives.
In addition, the state will pay contributions for people with low economic activity.
ya. The seagull thanked for the warm welcome and expressed readiness to continue and develop the constructive dialogue.
One of the modern threats is manifestations of extremism and terrorism, which pose a great danger to life and human health.
A feature of the Constitution of Kazakhstan for the first time in the history of Kazakhstan is human rights and freedom. the current constitution of kazakhstan is characterized by the fact that a person , his rights and freedoms have taken the central place for the first time in the history of kazakhstan .
Kazakh servicemen engaged in boxing, hand-to-hand combat, wrestling, etc., actively master the nomad style and successfully make it.
More recently, the State Commission for Operation adopted a solar power station in the area of ​ ​ the branch, the same station works at sitting stations, "said the head of the region.
In addition, K. Zhakupov noted the completion of negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
At the end of the trip, Berdybek met and talked with residents of the city of Saparbayev, entrepreneurs and social workers in the central city park, the report said.
the new version of the law provides for benefits when considering civil cases, introduced a procedure for pre-trial settlement of cases. the new code simplifies the procedure for consideration of civil cases , adds a new chapter of pre-trial settlement of property disputes , improves preparation terms for trial cases , and provides a number of other amendments aimed at accelerating processes and the court 's decision .
And taking into account the approved projects, 75.4% of the allocated funds were used.
It especially noted the work of the owner of the peasant farm "Bahadur" from the Kaplanbek rural district.
faced very important environmental challenges.
During a visit to the facilities of the city of Kokshetau, the head of the region inspected the repair of yard territories.
In addition, the innovation is that the participation of prosecutors in civil proceedings will now be limited.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of joint effective steps to combat terrorism and extremism, as well as other types of transnational crime, stressing that this dialogue will bring the interaction of prosecutors to a new level.
Since the beginning of the year, according to the results of active work, 6 thousand 403 people have been employed by the employment authorities. since the beginning of the year , the bodies have been working with 6403 unemployed .
the gathered residents learned not only about Cossack spirituality, but also about the active development of the state and the young capital.
As the head of the region noted, the region should be 100% ready for the new academic year.
As part of this event, the opening of the memorial complex (mausoleum) at the burial place of a prominent politician Abulkhair Khan took place.
In the large atrium hall of Nazarbayev University there is a fountain, which is presented in the photo.
our goal is to create favorable conditions for life and create conditions for the development of states and citizens. "
in many cities of Kazakhstan there is a shortage or excessive amount of electric or thermal energy.
The purpose of the forum is to develop proposals for the development of the machine-building industry of Kazakhstan in the conditions of eo and peace, attract investments, technological development, and increase the competitiveness of machine-building products of Kazakhstan.
The date of this year, according to the clarification of ilac and iaf, will be devoted to the social sphere, that is, medicine, support of the population and the like. the agenda is defined by ilac and iaf .
each participant passed the in-school selection and became the best in their zone.
theoretical training of specialists is the longest stage in the work.
B. As Imashev noted, one of the important innovations of the bill is the creation and functioning of the Kazakh arbitration chamber as a non-profit organization, as well as the association of permanent arbitration institutions and arbitrators.
the winners of regional competitions took part in the final gala concert.
As the deputy noted, a bill on the organization of production was submitted to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
soldiers who reached a height spent the night here and left again in the morning.
So, thanks to the new portal service, it is not necessary to provide residential construction bank customers with an address certificate at the place of residence when submitting applications for lending (other certificates: encumbrance on real estate and absence and availability of registered rights, a certificate of marriage and divorce).
During the seminar, the eidu report was presented, which will include information on improving the structure of state bodies and improving the structure of communications and relations between bodies.
This year Kazakhstan sent 2.7 million dollars of food and building materials to the fraternal country, the head of state said.
It should be noted that the forum focuses on the discussion of cooperation between states, representatives of the industry and the main decision makers in order to form a solid base for the development prospects of the oil and gas and energy market.
In addition, he warned of a shortage of drying complexes in the region.
Recall that in Kazakhstan, from October 1 of this year, a campaign is being conducted to further immunize adolescents aged 15 to 19 years against measles.
Gulshara abdykalikova also drew the attention of the forum participants to the fact that the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the 2015 Beijing Declaration is an important stage in promoting gender mainstream issues.
In general, Kazakhstan's goods were evaluated by Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, as well as the controlling states - Afghanistan, India, Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan and Turkmenistan.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the successful completion of negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
new types of grants will be introduced, allocations for individual types of grants will be increased, application procedures will be optimized.
The results of the competition were summed up in connection with the three-level age: from 7 to 9 years old - alova aelita, 2 places - murata alina, nupike ingkar, 3 places - flies alekstandr, zhanbolat zhasklan, not a single flower.
More than 60 of them have been planted and crossed only this season, "said Valentin Tien, head of the department of the Kazakh Rice Research Institute.
The President of the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt accepted the invitation and noted that he was considering all opportunities to participate in this event, which is important for Kazakhstan.
military musicians plan this year to tour to Russia, Switzerland and Germany.
these are the first service dogs trained as part of the course training introduced in July last year by the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev.	it is noted that this is the first time the land forces trained service dogs as part of military trainings , introduced by commander , lieutenant general murat maykeyev in july .	0,66
it is aimed at unemployed youth.	it will be used to finance young people who out of work .	0,66
also discussed issues of improving the education of teachers and training specialists necessary for the economy.	the issue of teachers ' qualification development and preparation of specialists was also discussed .	0,66
The Kazakh side expects that the introduction of technical gases into production for the needs of the people as a result of the participation of French specialists will lead to an increase in efficiency, reliability and flexibility.	the kazakh side expects to increase the efficiency , reliability and flexibility in the production of industrial gases for the needs of the refineries of the country as a result of the participation of french experts .	0,66
indeed, a lot of work has been done in this direction, "said the talgat Musabayev.
"ktz express" together with vpa logistics Sending a container train "ray" from China to Europe, sending from Europe to Kazakhstan, then to China and Central Asian countries, for which purpose use the opportunity of the vpa logistics company of the kliped port with a fleet of white reading containers "ktc" uk "and in the future" soul logistics solutions. "
According to this rating, Kazakhstan rose from 50th to 42nd place.
the building doesn't go away like a big one.
he noted that these values ​ ​ can be realized through the unity of representatives of different religions.
During the meetings, the issues of the development of investment funds in the amount of 600 million US dollars for the development of the "lead-east gate" signed during the visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to China on August 31, 2015 were analyzed.
During the visit, the head of state got acquainted with the activities of the enterprise and the work of its production workshop.
As the speaker noted, Japanese architect and Kurokawa plays a big role in the architecture of the capital of Kazakhstan.
This year we are conducting this for the 18th time.
first of all, it is planned to overcome the first six stages, "the report said.
the plant employs about 90 people.
installation work was carried out by specialists from Europe.
over the past three years, these colleges have undergone major repairs in the amount of 225.9 million tenge, "the department noted.
because the unique phenomenon of the 21st century, called the "Chinese rise," we consider primarily as a necessary opportunity for the development of the entire region, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in the nomination of circus art, the best was the Kazakh state circus team from Almaty.
the works of the M.Bexultan "Battle of Atrocities" are especially distinguished in the exposition.
As a result, we got experience that European specialists got acquainted with, "said the chairman of the board of the National Scientific Cardiac Surgery Center.
According to the Committee on Legal Statistics and Special Accounts of the Prosecutor General's Office, in the Kostanay region there is a positive change in the number of corruption offenses and crimes.
In this regard, all necessary measures are being taken, modern infrastructure is being prepared.
Therefore, it is necessary to continue work on the further development of small and medium-sized businesses, "he said. saparbayev.
Speaking to the participants, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted that Terzhan Kazykhanov Thomas Atkinson became the first British researcher to travel to Kazakhstan in the 20th century.
It was, 25 years we held them - each of them has time to recover, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
interregional migrants account for 44.6 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
The main goal of the construction of the industrial zone is the creation of new enterprises, thereby providing stable new jobs, promoting the development of medium and small businesses.
everything is agreed and supported by all universities, it is produced in at least 125 editions.
therefore, the capital is interested in the participation of as many countries as possible, and according to the requirements of the international exhibition bureau, 60 least developed countries provide technical support for participation in the exhibition.
The meeting was also attended by a member of the committee on ecology and environmental management Andrei Begeneev.
in accordance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil and subsoil use, the applicant sends an application for obtaining the right to subsoil use in a simplified manner for exploration.
As a result of a natural disaster, 449 houses were declared uninhabitable, in 2017 families suffered.
this concept of the Chinese silk road and the Kazakh program are similar.
According to him, today society and representatives of the competent authorities are fighting the consequences of corruption, so it is necessary to know how these actions will continue in the future.
According to him, the work carried out to celebrate this significant date will contribute to a deep study of our history.
After that, d.akhmetov got acquainted with a dairy farm, on which 50 heads are designed.
despite this, our team is moving forward, demonstrating a high level of skill.
raising the state flag has become a tradition that gives the start to festive events dedicated to Capital Day. national flag-raising ceremony has become a tradition dedicated to the day of the capital .
as a result, residential buildings of the Auez, Nauryzbay and Alatau districts of Almaty were damaged.
In turn, Daniel focused on timely and high-quality repair work.
In addition, he got acquainted with the reconstruction of bridges occupied in Pavlodar, Aktobe regions, the improvement of squares near the park of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the decoration of the "Taraz" restaurant conducted by the Mangistau region, the progress of improvement adjacent to the bus station of the North Kazakhstan region.
an educational institution is a fair judicial academy, in which it is mandatory to study those who choose the specialty of a court or prosecutor. justice academy is an educational institution with a special status , training in which is mandatory for each lawyer chosen profession of a judge or prosecutor .
It is worth noting that this year the number of doctors in the district increased by 10 centners more than last year.
in order for the products to be large, the peasants received great support from the state.
Director of the e-government development department of the Ministry of Communications and High Technology Elnur Asanov shared plans to conduct online payments without entering bank card data.
The 13th step to implement the strategy and plan of the nation, approved by the head of state, the anti-corruption program of the Nur Otan party, "the deputy said.
in addition, the role of the legal storage unit of the department has increased significantly in time-saving conditions.
at the same time, the cabibolla of the Jacupes and the "economic belt of the Silk Road" drew attention to the docking of the Chinese initiative.
As Mr. Kang noted, the direction of the expedition can develop the tourism industry of the country.
It is worth noting that the importance of energy-saving technologies in Zhezkazgan was discussed at a meeting in Zhezkazgan akimat.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
bakytzhan sagintayev also instructed the state authorities to take measures against importers and sellers of counterfeit batteries and cable-wire products.
It is not surprising that a new detachment will be created in the future, "says the astronaut.
Since the beginning of the year, 501 people have been trained in the regional center, 183 people have undergone retraining, 318 civil servants have received advanced training.
To date, more than half of the construction work has been completed on the construction of the foundation for the finished product warehouse, and the construction of the upper building is also beginning.
the parties plan to establish the production of telephone exchanges and telephone sets in the capital and cities of Zhezkazgan.
for example, one day about 30 specialists from European countries come to us and see our experience.
Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan Baibek noted the importance of this event and noted that the main goal of Kazakhstan is to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world, the quality in the economy will differ by 2050.
we are developing States, so I think more favourable conditions will be made for us.
As a result, as of January 1, 2015, on average, wear on utilities decreased by 60% to 8%, which made it possible to achieve program indicators.
he also discussed the implementation of the resolution adopted in Almaty in the field of prevention of unregulated migration and humanitarian border management.
German parliamentarians arrived in the capital to participate in a meeting of the Kazakh-German intergovernmental commission of ethnic Germans living in Kazakhstan.
As the chairman of the company noted, all issues related to the change in the exchange rate of the national currency came up for discussion of foreign exchange policy.
international experience in maintaining energy efficiency of facilities and implementing pilot projects.
Expand the list of financial monitoring entities.
the second bill aims to improve the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides for a three-stage system.
the enterprise is located in the industrial zone of the district.
our people should be proud of their ancestors.
The document is designed to improve legislation in the field of provision of services to legal entities on the principle of "one window."
invaluable wealth for the Kazakh people, the work of the great poet abai. an outstanding kazakh poet , educator , thinker abay kunanbayev plays a special place in the history of social and philosophical thought in kazakhstan .
More than 6.6 thousand people were employed.
The draft law provides for the introduction of the concepts of grants and prizes to non-governmental organizations, the operator in the field of grant financing of NGOs, and the database. the bill provides the introduction of the concepts : grants for ngos , the prize for ngos , grant funding operator ; ngo database .
the opening of the Bulgarian-Kazakh Chamber of Commerce within the framework of today's visit is an important step in deepening bilateral economic ties.
on the Singapore side, representatives of leading companies and more than 100 organizations of the country took part in the event.
firstly, it is an increased level of intellectual qualities required of politicians.
in this forum, I hope that my colleagues will receive a good school and lead to the development of international partnership.	it is gratifying that radiologists have come from many countries ,  aleksey tsoi has said .
I also propose to hold a meeting of our experts with the aim of exchanging experience in the framework of combat training, studying the possibilities of conducting military operations in a mountainous forest area, types and methods of combating illegal armed groups that increase the interoperability of our armed forces, "said the Tasmagambets imangali.
preserving his ethnic "life," a formula for patriotic attitude towards the country in which he lives.
The main goal of the event is an attempt to understand the history of the Kazakh people from an artistic perspective through the nomadic trilogy.
In addition, spectators are waiting for unforgettable meetings in which bright groups and invited artists of foreign countries will take part.
participants discussed issues of the juvenile court.
this tournament is a springboard that allows you to not only show skill, but also try yourself in strong competitions, "said Rybinsk.
skills testing for acute coronary syndrome care was carried out in the presence of a "standard patient" who showed a clinical situation in accordance with a specially trained and assigned task.
The main competitor of Kazakhstan was the Chinese athlete yujiao, who not only took gold, but also set Asian and world records, breaking 137.5 kg.
According to him, thanks to investment activity, all sectors of the region received good results.
Member of the Sejm of the Polish Parliament, member of the Polish-Kazakh parliamentary group put forward concrete steps for the supply of mining and agricultural equipment.
the main reason for the low indicator is low awareness of potential partners in other regions and member states of the EAEU. one of the reasons for the low level of industrial cooperation is the lack of awareness about potential partners .
Canada is one of the main partners of Kazakhstan among two American states.
for us, this is a serious amount.
there will be only one champion.
As part of the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, adjustments have been made in accordance with the step of 46,48.49, "the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nikolai Logutov said.
According to him, the decision of the heads of state to create a council in Bishkek in 20102 is a reflection of the further development of Kazakh-Kyrgyz cooperation.
Recall that a month before the start of the new school year, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan announces the holding of an all-republican charity event "Road to School" according to the established tradition.
if the person who committed the crime in Kazakhstan is hiding in Italy, then law enforcement officers of this country can arrest him and transfer him to us. if a criminal flees from justice in italy , the italian law enforcement authorities can detain and extradite him .
representatives of regional interdepartmental commissions for the prevention of crime are akims of regions and districts, the issue of increasing the role of representatives of this commission is being discussed.
Next, the Governor of the region visited the youth sports school, where he got acquainted with the project of building a boarding house for children gifted in sports.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the competition is to increase the interest of young people in the spiritual heritage of the Kazakh people, to exchange experience among students of music schools.
According to him, about 70 registered gas network companies are engaged in compacted gas trading in Kazakhstan.
he also raised issues of increasing the number of breeding horses and the export of konina.
summing up the meeting, he gave a number of instructions to the heads of the Karaganda regional branch of the company and contracting organizations on the need for constant monitoring of the construction and reconstruction of the republican roads of the region.
This competition is dedicated to children's literature.
The Krivet National Research Institute, established in 1997 for vocational education and training and enhancing the professional competence of the public.
Currently, the Committee for the Protection of Children's Rights is working on 38 newly arrived pupils, "said the head of the regional education department sholpan karinova.
the project is also aimed at strengthening confidence in banks by investors and the population.
in addition, the program is aimed at introducing methods and technologies in the field of statistics, developing a system of indicators of integration processes.
The presentation of the best social projects and awarding of the winners of the competition will be held on the eve of the professional holiday of social protection workers.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the fraternal peoples of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan have been linking friendly relations for many centuries.
It is planned that the tournament will be held 10 festivities from each of the 14 regions of the republic and the cities of the capital and Almaty.
the first place was taken by athletes from Russia, the second - by the Belarusian army.
the leader of Kazakhstan demonstrates these three qualities, "said the Ambassador of Kazakhstan.
the Turkmen side became interested in companies in the field of construction and mechanical engineering LLP "s.m.f.-system," LLP "karlskrona lac ab," LLC "concern of bakarassov," etc.
n. The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan under the leadership of Nazarbayev for 20 years of its existence has become the national treasure of Kazakhstan, becoming an instrument for the implementation of the national policy of the state.
in a two-story building, twenty children are brought up in groups with different differences of 12 years.
this activity is ongoing.
today we have formed the main core of teachers, and they fuck at meetings.
During the period of filling out the online application, the system automatically checks the real estate of the entrepreneur, checks for compliance with the valid name of the registered legal entity, etc.
On the same day, deputies will adopt a bill aimed at amending security issues during sports, cultural and entertainment and other events.
The bill will be aimed at implementing the 41st step of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" to fulfill the order of the head of state to simplify the process of legalization of property and review the side of ensuring guarantees against illegal prosecution by law enforcement agencies.
The event focuses on good practices and policy issues focused on the activities of public authorities.
Following the meetings, Professor Alexander eggermont agreed to take the post of adviser on the development of the oncological service for adults in Kazakhstan, and Professor Gunther Hentse - on the improvement of the children's oncological service in Kazakhstan.
According to him, the main task, the main criterion for protecting the rights of children is to provide them with free education.
according to the results of the competition, i place went to goodwill, ii place - Seidualiev shynbolat and prens were divided among themselves, iii place - galia and zhumabeks.
Note that the main goal of this event is to promote the international exhibition "expo-2017" on the theme "energy of the future" in the capital.
The main topic of the conversation was the implementation of 5 institutional reforms of the head of state, as well as issues of youth practice and patriotism.
Thank you for giving me such a chance on ice TV.
During the event, it is planned to discuss issues of cooperation in the field of application of space technologies in the field of agriculture and oil and gas of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main task of the company is the import substitution of similar products, "the report said.
dialogue, exchange of information, familiarity with spiritual values ​ ​ are important conditions for rapprochement and communication between different cultures and peoples.
they are on behalf of the President of the Republic of Tatarstan r.minnikhanov. awarded diplomas to active participants in the ethnocultural association.
According to the Director of the Department, Kazakhstan is carrying out comprehensive research work related to juvenile suicide.
rifle training is the main occupation reflecting the field training skills of cadets studying at the Military Institute of the Ground Forces, aimed at training a soldier in rifle skills and the ability to conduct speed of fire at all distances and high-speed shooting.
After hearing the applicants' arguments, Adaulbayev instructed to ensure a comprehensive verification of the applicants' testimony, in case of violations, to introduce an act of prosecutor's supervision and take measures to restore the violated rights.
landscaped dormitories, an administrative building, a dining room are already being built.
According to the head of the housing and communal services and energy department, in accordance with the measures to prepare for the heating season of public utilities, social services and energy facilities for 2015-2016, it is planned to prepare 451 boiler houses, 260.2 km of heat supply, 123.8 km of water supply and sanitation networks, 785 km of electric networks and 33.4 km of gas supply networks.
Ordabayev diamond itself is a multiple winner of international olympiads and chemistry competitions.
and before that, of course, we were recognized, we entered various financial institutions, so Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO expands a number of opportunities, "said the head of state.
in the future, it is planned to purchase Italian equipment and open a workshop for the production of oilseeds.
He noted that the development of relations between Kazakhstan and Vietnam is facilitated by the intensification of visits at various levels.
it was created by a European quality organization with the support of a couple.
In this regard, in the period 2014-2015 as of August 14 of this year, 14,389 heads of ikm were financed and placed by the Kazagronim squirrels, including
the second object is the construction site of the kindergarten.
The award ceremony of 30 winners will be held on October 16 in the Kazakhstan pavilion Expo-2015 in Milan.
A kindergarten for 216 places with a total area of ​ ​ 3.5 thousand square meters was built as part of a project to reduce the shortage of places in preschool institutions.
During the week of work, archaeologists discovered geographical objects associated with the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, formerly belonging to historical science, the report said.
in particular, this issue is also being discussed at the level of heads of state who will make an appropriate decision, "concluded B. sagintayev.
complex operations with the use of new high-tech methodologies were made possible thanks to the growing professionalism of military surgeons.	complex operations using new high-tech techniques are possible due to the growing professionalism , the cooperation with major medical institutions .	0,66
Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Serbia M. Karich noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev through his real patriotism, skillful leadership left a noticeable mark in the history of statehood and people of Kazakhstan.	honorary consul of kazakhstan in serbia m.karich noted that nursultan nazarbayev has significantly contributed in the history of the kazakh nation and its people .	0,66
Your visit today will give a new impetus to the development of good-neighbourly relations between our countries, "said the President of Tajikistan.
Also, transit passengers of the airline will be able to attend the exhibition for free on the days of the exhibition.
we need to strengthen work in this direction, "the President of Kazakhstan concluded.
Goods entering the country's market will be high-quality and cheap, since world manufacturers produce their goods for billions of people, and prices for such goods will be much cheaper than for goods for a thousand people, "said A. Peruashev.
East Cossacks met an expeditionary group in Semey.
museums, exhibitions and theatres should be ready to meet guests at the highest level.
circus art does not stand still.
in addition, the ship will use traditional mine action tools.
In the future, Kazakhstan will present itself as the largest business transit logistics hub in the Central Asian region, which will connect Europe and southeast Asia with a wide bridge, "N. Nazarbayev concluded.
In addition to the plenary meeting, the forum invited kha delegates to participate in the draft session, panel discussions, exhibitions and other events.
According to the ex-member of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan, every citizen should respect the constitution of his country.
in the area of freedom, Kazhimmontazh Holding JSC reconstructs its form and builds a canteen for gymnasium school No. 22 on its territory.
In Almaty region at this time, about 3 thousand children are under the care of others, 56 children are under the patronage of teachers, more than 800 are brought up in various boarding schools and other educational institutions.
state and political topics were discussed at the republican debates dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. this tournament is devoted to the 20th anniversary of kazakhstan people 's assembly .
It is worth noting that thanks to these reforms, it will be achieved to attract advanced technologies and transfers for exploration, identify promising areas of oil and gas, create favorable conditions for attracting investment, obtain at least twice the sectors of oil, gas and the related economy, service and additional infrastructure, proven, recoverable reserves.
Kazakhstanis are co-organizers of the event - national agency for export and investment kaznex invest, Finnish - finpro organization.
and the Chinese, according to them, are implementing a joint project, since favorable conditions for investors have been created in the region.
that is, the passenger does not receive his baggage for customs control, but immediately leaves for a connecting flight.
the ministry has always been open to all personnel entering the department, we have about 50 graduates of the "future," whom we sent for training, 34 more are still studying.
to date, no more than government agencies, civil servants.
At the end of the meeting, a protocol was signed in which all agreements agreed on that day were registered.
the institute opened advanced training courses for psychologists.
they entered into force on May 17.
It is worth noting that competitions will be held from next year.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the enterprise, examined the equipment and products for production.
in the near future, repairs will begin, and by the fall it is planned to open a center with 50 seats.
to achieve a high level of extraction of metals into a concentrate, a revision of existing technological parameters of ore concentration, research work on the extraction of reagents, industrial tests on the selection of the most efficient flotation equipment is carried out.
At the end of his speech, the head of the EBRD wished success in winning the right to host the 24th Winter Olympic Games.
In the context of strengthening the international security system, the Kazakh side called for the modernization of existing experimental security mechanisms and approaches, including the provision of confidence-building measures, "the statement said.
This year, we decided to seek help from all entrepreneurs in our city, including a restaurant or cafe, and attract others in the field of food.	numerous organizations , companies , businessmen and ordinary citizens actively help children to prepare for school .	0,66
During the conversation, he paid special attention to programs and projects developed on the initiative of the head of state.	particular attention was given to programs and projects initiated by the president of the country .	0,66
the purpose of this project is to transport ores, commodities and concentrate along the railway route from the Varvarinskoye Batalin station.
the Kazakh delegation was headed by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on special assignments Timur Razaev.
these investments are allocated by Jiangsu Province.
workers.
the main purpose of the audit is to determine the training and capabilities of military personnel and units with active action and successful performance of combat missions.
letters to heads of akimats, yibs and outlets.
Secretary General of Reading N.B. noted that the persistent activity of Nursultan Nazarbayev is deservedly recognized, aimed at turning Kazakhstan into a dynamic and powerful state, having the right to occupy a prominent place in the world community, developing friendly relations and cooperation with other states, making a significant contribution to international peace and security.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of culture between the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria.
the facility is equipped with all the necessary material and technical base.
According to data of the report of RK, banks of the second level as of 11.09.2015 opened 165 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 78.8 billion. Tenge, including for the legalization of money withdrawn from a savings account with payment of 2.9 billion to the budget. Tenge.	according to the national bank of kazakhstan , as of september 11 , 2015 the second-tier banks have opened 165 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 78.8 billion tenge , including withdrawn from saving accounts - 29.2 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 2.9 billion tenge of fee for the legalization of money .	0,67
According to Kazakhstan's policy, all children in the country should be provided with free education.
This year, the tank biathlon highway is much complicated, the rules have been tightened.
B. Saparbayev noted that on the instructions of the head of state, the government is taking comprehensive measures to fulfill the state's social obligations to the population.
The Golden Horde tulips, whose horns are crescent, demonstrate the peace of our country, and also demonstrate the readiness of our people to defend our country at any time.
the Chinese delegation attended the Khorgos-East Gate presentation and conducted a tour of the dry port facilities.
in addition, the timeliness of sowing depends on the agricultural producers themselves.
So, on November 13, the capital will host the international conference "Green Bridge - a platform for partnership for best practices and innovations."
additional additives are transported from other regions of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
The length of the road is 1,033 meters.
The deputy spoke about the activities of the Kazakh parliament and the Kazakh model of interethnic and interfaith agreements.
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the German side with the main goals and objectives of the national policy "100 concrete steps," the new economic policy "bright path - path to the future," as well as the investment scale of the upcoming international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital and Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization.
now this can have an impact on the economy of the country and domestic entrepreneurs in various conditions.
In the Saryarka ea zone, the project of the plant for the assembly of LED lamps of Ekolampovy Zavod LLP will be implemented.
today, each country has three members.
Heads of central state bodies also spoke at the meeting, who informed about measures to bring sectoral standards in line with current requirements, and to form a legislative framework.
Heat energy charges are recalculated at the beginning of the next heating season 2015-2016.
Kazakhstan, like a number of States, is currently actively pursuing a policy of diversification of its economy.
The most important thing is that for the first time 1,006 places were allocated to the magistracy under state orders (985 last year), and if last year 128 undergraduates entered on a paid basis, then this year they are accepted to the same extent.	130 and 80 students spaces respectively have been allocated by the university ,  the press service of the university informed .
In two weeks, artists of Turkish countries prepared more than 100 paintings exhibited at the exhibition.
these citizens will consider administrative cases and not the most complex civil cases, criminal cases of the middle level, "said a.rachmetulin.
The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhanov marat congratulated on the holiday.
the exhibition will feature not only air shows producing aircraft, but also ground forces and naval troops.
Summing up the results of the exercise, the head of the Military Institute of the Ground Forces, Major General Vasily Rysbayev, noted the compactness of the cadets, practical skills and theoretical knowledge, and also awarded the best diplomas.
we have an independent country, a country that spares no paternal care.
We see that the knowledge and qualifications they received are often not found in state affairs, because they were initially focused on engineering specialties, "said Nurbek.
So, in the management of the Commander-in-Chief of the Air Defense Forces, a conference was held "From Kazakh heroes to space heroes."
This course is designed for the preparation of quota categories of fellows who have entered the academic program.
certification in the armed forces of Kazakhstan is mandatory once every three years.
On the eve of a memorable event in the history of international cosmonautics, Tusabaev was awarded the silver medal "Alexey Leonov," approved by the governor of the Kemerovo region surviving tuleyev.
the work of the court is public to all countries.
In addition, the head of state noted that over the past 3 years after the previous congress, the world has witnessed rude actions aimed at splitting people on the basis of religious differences.
20th anniversary of the current constitution of Kazakhstan.
all these requirements, including the Astana infrastructure, make it possible to create a basis in the system of the world financial center, "the head of state said.
all our traditions, traditions, types of economy, conditions.
it is impossible to solve this issue with macamas alone.
the term of study in republican military boarding schools is two years (grades 10 and 11).
Congratulating the metropolitan team, the head of state noted that this really historical achievement is the result of a selfless game, cooperation, skillful coaching and active support for the fans.
studying the requirements for various products, I came to the conclusion that I would produce household soaps.
The exercise is organized in accordance with the memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the technical secretariat of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and takes place 3 days until July 17.
Note that all these works are carried out as part of the Nұrly Zhol program.
provided support to domestic producers, created favorable conditions for business.
As noted in the report, a number of priority areas for the preservation of the economy and social stability of the Mangistau region are currently identified.
the doctor gave them the first ambulance.
A special working group forms a list of in-demand and in-demand professions that children can master.	however , staff offices are prepared by qualified experts , educators and physicians .	0,67
I want to note that this organization has the support of all Bulgarian state bodies.
In addition, the results of the meeting of the first heads of the ministries of economy and finance of the EAEU member states, as well as national (central) banks on ensuring financial and macroeconomic stability were summed up.
as a result, the operation was successfully completed, and the goals of the training and tactical exercises were fully achieved.
by the evening, the most active pensioners were inaugurated.
The meeting participants will discuss a wide range of topics, including joint counteraction to the terrorist threat, ensuring security and law and order, cooperation between the power structures of the Commonwealth member states and other key issues.
our soldiers, who competed in swimming, judo, hand-to-hand wrestling, laundry sports, officer triathlon and shooting from regular weapons, won prizes.
The festival, which lasted two days, was attended by about 130 talented children from the districts of the region and Kyzylorda region.
competitions were held in the city of Pobelka.
all conditions for trade are provided here.
The action started in the capital, then took place in all regions of Kazakhstan, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mukhtar.
deputies also visited the Ural transformer plant and Rodnik LLP.
The parties noted that the signing of the document is an important step towards strengthening bilateral partnership in the field of combating crime and will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the competent authorities of both parties in the criminal legal sphere.
Currently, grain is farmed.
The head of the national nuclear company also planned to visit social facilities of Kazatomprom Sponsorship LLP in taucent and rubella villages of South Kazakhstan region.
And those who became a five-time winner will play for the national team at the world championship in polyathlon in Kaluga (Russia).
the authors also drew attention to the fact that thanks to the direct support of the President of Kazakhstan, the agricultural industry of the country began to develop, and farmers from the state are provided with significant assistance in the form of subsidies, seeds, fertilizers and fuel and lubricants.
G. Abdykalikova thanked the Japanese policy aimed at helping to solve common problems for all Central Asian countries, noting that the new charter of official development assistance (Drk) adopted in February 2015 in Japan opens up great opportunities for expanding cooperation between Kazakhstan and Japan.
secondly, a. Mamytbekov speaks of the depletion of the world agricultural potential.
villagers will be considered by specialized specialists.
the purpose of the meeting is to prove to children that they can also achieve the successes we have achieved, arouse their desire to play sports and rejoice in the meeting. the purpose of the meeting with children is to show an example of what they can achieve , to draw them to sport .
our economy has collapsed completely.
According to the student, this competitive environment will have a good position when entering the international market.
15 receptions and an open day were also organized by the department's outreach team.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-September 2015 was estimated at 109.2 billion tenge.
The Minister said that the sphere of public health will be created in Kazakhstan on the basis of optimizing the epidemiological service and nutrition, combining the formation of a healthy lifestyle.
Ten per cent of all employees involved in the project.
at a special collegiate meeting, proposals were made for the repair of roads of republican and regional significance next year.
Pink flowers of the elite class of Holland are grown in a high-tech greenhouse complex of the new century.
the farm is located in Almaty region.
The head of state noted that the country has great opportunities to meet the demand for agricultural products.
today's test - the daily business that we do at the lyceum did not create much problems.
The main objective of the study is to develop a background analytical report on the judicial system of Central Asian countries.
Also, Finance Minister B.Sultanov noted that compared to last year the undeveloped amount of the republican budget decreased by 2 times and amounted to 41 billion tenge.
According to the leader of the nation, it is necessary to increase the efficiency and productivity of existing enterprises.
in this regard, he stressed the importance of continuing negotiations on the facilitation of the visa regime for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the first Kazakh tank crew includes lieutenant asylbek musirmankulov, sergeant zhumagulov and sergeant duman baizhanov.
how we achieved this, as usual in the oil situation, all companies come to the question of cost effectiveness.
the decline in investment in industry was 24.8%.
A total of 67 laws related to the legislative implementation of the National Plan are proposed.	the majilis will also consider the draft labour code and some amendments , the changes to the land code and the draft law  on the supreme judicial council of the republic of kazakhstan . "
the bill provides for a change in the procedure for the appointment of basic pension payments.
logical infrastructure, airports, the program includes housing construction, rehabilitation of hospitals and schools.
this year alone, the cost of copper per ton decreased from 6300 to 5100.
It should be noted that before the opening of the school of teachers, we held several meetings dedicated to them so that the foundation knew about the intention of children to participate in this project.
the basic labour guarantees and rights of employees are also enshrined, and the possibility of increasing them by concluding collective, individual contracts and agreements and instruments for the protection of the rights and interests of employees is envisaged.
During the meeting, the Governor's Office of Ust-Kamenogorsk instructed to include in the list of projects the construction of the intersection of the streets of Kazakhstan, Permitin, Victory Avenue and Slavskaya Embankment.
it will be equipped with all necessary equipment for the full work of staff when leaving the road.
after psychological testing, they must successfully undergo physical training and a medical examination.
R. Zhoshybayev also held a meeting with the President of the Swedish Center for Tourism Innovations, Jan Lundin.
it is enough to recall the terrorist attacks in Paris.
akim of stepnogorsk anuar kumpekeyev inspected these agricultural facilities and got acquainted with their conditions.
unicef, "other interested departments, together with the Children's Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, are implementing a project on suicide prevention for 2015-2020.
- The constitution is considered a symbol of citizenship and is a unique gift of independence.
- 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms are aimed at the implementation of the national plan, including the extension of the terms of legalization, improvement and promotion of the legalization procedure "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, oralmans and persons with a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in connection with the legalization of their property"
thus, the best military unit of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which demonstrated excellent combat training, was the military unit 61993 under the leadership of the commander of the unit lieutenant colonel Shaykh-Hasanbaev.
Of the 100 proposed steps, 15 are aimed at improving the professionalism of the state apparatus, 19 - at strengthening the effective work of judicial and law enforcement agencies, 50 - at turning into a high-tech, powerful economy.
on the portal, every Kazakhstani can apply at any time, get a certificate and use more than 215 electronic services.
The activities of the concept are aimed at modernizing the functioning system, ensuring the principle of meritocracy and publicity.
the exchange of views, the proposed ideas have a positive impact on the mutually beneficial cooperation of our states. i am confident that the results will provide the basis for equal and mutually beneficial cooperation of all our states .
The purpose of the exhibition is to demonstrate to residents and guests of the capital invaluable exhibits of the material and spiritual culture of the Kazakh people, collected in the fund of the historical and local history museum of Aktobe region as part of a project to strengthen cultural ties between the regions and popularize museum business.
to this end, it is necessary to create conditions for the influx of investors engaged in the processing of raw materials into the industry.
As part of the action, a historical excursion was organized about state symbols among residents and guests of the city of Kokshetau.
foster parents' schools and family support services have been established.
In his speech, nurymbetov noted the need to create a system that takes into account the rights and interests of migrants and refugees, allows increasing the preparedness of countries for emergencies and mass displacements every year with increasing scale and complexity.
the place of women in Kazakh society is stable, because our history has had a special impact on women, which cannot be compared with eastern civilization. status of women in the kazakh society is stable because the attitude towards women was historically different , you cannot compare us with the other eastern civilizations .
The validity of motor vehicles is 20 days, the length of 8 thousand 500 kilometers, "he said.
the festive event ended with a concert.
selection from among judges of the regional court for the post of judge of the supreme court is carried out.	at the end of the meeting members of the commission interviewed the candidates wishing to work in the central office .	0,67
it is always hard in life, you only need to endure these difficulties.	many people went into business , many of them left from kazakhstan looking for better life .	0,67
educators keep them under surveillance around the clock.	i combine my work with the work at the orphanage .	0,67
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 26 applications for legalization of objects in the amount of 658 million tenge.	the bodies of state revenues received 26 applications for legalization of property located outside the republic totaling 658,1 million tenge .	0,67
control is carried out thanks to an integrated electronic-optical system, which includes a thermal visa chamber, a day vision chamber, a laser rangefinder and a weather regulator.	monitoring is carried out thanks to the integrated electro-optical system , which combines a thermal imaging camera , daylight camera vision , laser range finder and weather sensors .	0,67
In his speech, Dr. Rotschild noted that Kazakhstan has good prospects for obtaining the status of a financial hub in the Central Asian region.	in turn , jacob rothschild noted good prospects of kazakhstan to be a financial hub of the central asian region .	0,67
from now on, the UN office in the capital will be located in a spacious building in the best district of the capital.	the un office will be located in a spacious building in one of the best areas in astana .	0,67
circumstances in them are truly done.	the conditions are very close to reality .	0,67
Thus, in order to reduce the harm to the goods and the cost of their transportation, a significant part of the cargo was delivered from the Madrid Talgo plant to the port of bilbao, from where it was delivered by sea to the coast of Europe to the Estonian harbor of paldiski.
in addition, e. Sultanov got acquainted with the types of hypermarket and the work of the children's play center.
Today, the air defense forces are on duty trained high-class aviation specialists, radio engineering and anti-aircraft missile calculations, who have repeatedly demonstrated their skill at large tactical exercises, practical exercises and training grounds.
Their arrival in the ISS is awaited by the Russian genadia of the fall, Mikhail Kornienko and Oleg Kononenko, American astronauts cattle Kelly and Chell Lindgren, as well as a Japanese astronaut.
N.Nazarbayev also noted that at the first stage of the industrialization map 212 new projects were launched totaling 74 billion tenge, about 9 thousand jobs were created.
The head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry noted that Polish entrepreneurs intend to come to Aktobe to study the market in detail, meet with local producers and view their products.
The main thing is that this gift is not an isolated one, it will continue further.
cooperation within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan and Cuba traditionally support each other's initiatives within the framework of international organizations.
The main purpose of this bill is to regulate legal relations related to the organization and conduct of sports and mass, cultural and entertainment and other events, as well as to prevent violations of public safety.
The Secretary of State noted that, given its interest in issues of global climate change, she welcomes the invitation of Kazakhstan to participate in the upcoming specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
During the meeting, the parties discussed the participation of South Korea in Expo 2017.
According to him, the capacity of 2 plants is 7 thousand tons of products per year.
classes are held in accordance with the combat training plan, special attention in training personnel is aimed at studying the principle of the use of engineering ammunition, equipment and equipment, and the rules for their use.
The adoption of this order is due to the need to regulate the import of automobile equipment, to increase the responsibility of importers and sellers for the sale of vehicles imported by them.
Kazakhstan and Russia are strategic partners, comprehensive and bilateral military-technical cooperation between the two countries is dynamically developing.
before the exhibition, a briefing was held with the participation of representatives of the Department of Justice, the Robotics Federation, entrepreneurs, republican and regional gardens.
Recall that one of the main goals of the Khorgos-East Gate is the creation of an effective transport, logistics and industrial center that ensures the interests and transit potential of trade and export activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as contributes to the development of economic and cultural exchange with neighboring states.
During the raid, inspectors checked the implementation of fire safety requirements for elevators and bakery supports, harvesting equipment.
Work to remove barriers to the effective functioning of the single market. we need to be actively engaged in the elimination of exceptions and limitations , barriers and obstacles for the efficient functioning of the single market .
as a result of this transaction, new opportunities will be available to Altel and Tele2Kazakh subscribers as well as future users by expanding the coverage of the network, using advanced technologies such as 4g/le, and increasing the number of services provided.
The head of the region proposed to oblige project companies to open branches and create joint ventures in Kazakhstan.
promising, multi-storey buildings and schools and other social facilities will be built in the airport neighborhood.
The Office provides practical assistance to citizens of Kazakhstan in establishing contacts with the competent institutions of the host country in the event of loss of documents, the removal of relevant certificates and their translation.
Since August 6, 2015, Kyrgyzstan has joined the Eurasian Economic Union.
During the seminar, the expert will familiarize civil servants with the main elements of the fight against corruption and anti-corruption experience of other countries.
The event is attended by about 800 experts and specialists of musical art from 70 countries.
I am sure that your visit will further increase the level of our cooperation. i am confident that your visit will further enhance the level of our cooperation .
We warn that after the end of the exhibition, the activities of this complex will not stop.
Also, this schedule for feeding caviar is introduced in the following farms.
courses are organized on the basis of the National University of Defense, as well as training centers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The best experience of Germany is proposed to legislate the activity of the operator of the energy saving market on the basis of the Institute for the Development of Energy Saving under the Ministry. using the most successful experience of germany , it was offered to create energy service institution on the basis of development institute under the ministry .
Note that in the capital in the Palace of Independence the 13th meeting of the attorneys general of the Shu participating countries is held.
the grand commander of the fra ludwig hoffman von rumerstein, the grand chancellor - the minister of foreign affairs albrecht freiger von bozelager and other high-ranking officials of the Order of Malta took part in the ceremony.
in addition, interim meetings of the council and meetings of working groups are regularly organized.
In addition, the head of state noted that a monument to the cautious Kunanbaev is planned to be erected in Kiev.
From January 1, 2015, the implementation of the test system in grades 10-11 will be carried out in a 63-year school.
During the meeting, the heads of delegations of member states Asem discussed global climate change, emergency management methods, as well as the interaction of states within the forum.
agriculture should introduce large incomes and save Kazakhstan from fears related to oil prices. agriculture must generate more revenue to kazakhstan and protect it from shocks associated with the oil price .
After finishing my third year at the university, I practiced in San Francisco, Twitter. "
the parties discussed the current state and prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iraq.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 109 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
these will be special forums for discussing youth policy, "said the vice minister.
According to him, it is planned to use Italian experience in cleaning technical water for Kazakhstan.
work on smoothing land, adaptation for development.
According to the Minister, the enterprises of the first five-year plan of industrialization are more resistant to external influences than others.
According to the speaker, today the main goal of the museum business is to compile a report of the museum corr, legislate the order in the museum sphere and promote the development of a unified approach.
we are not ready for this now, because there is no complex, there is no center for the development of technologies, such things as a capitalized base are needed.	foreign brands ' auto production is not the very purpose of the development of the industry ,  said a.lavrentyev.
Preparation of facilities for the heating season of 2015-2016 is carried out in accordance with the schedule agreed with the utilities.
in regional significance, Western European countries predominate in this list.
Our fruitful work with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development attracts private foreign investors.	it reduces electricity consumption and greenhouse gas emissions .	0,67
development of interstate standards and other regulatory documents in the field of ensuring the uniformity of measurements, implementation of agreements on mutual recognition of the results of metrological work, development of interstate regulatory documents on improving the accounting and quality of energy carriers supplied to each other, gas calorimetry, as well as fertility of gas fuel in the field of other fuels, creation of a metrological measurement support system (combustion energy), discussion of regional cooperation and other issues.	the meeting will discuss regional cooperation on the development of inter-state standards and other documents in the area of traceability , mutual recognition of results of metrological works , development of inter-state regulations for the improvement of quality and mutually delivered energy , creating a system of metrological support of measurements of caloric ( energy combustion ) of fuel gas in gaseous calorimetry and other issues .	0,67
in a combined orchestra of Kazakh folk instruments, performing the subtle sound of ancient national instruments, such as a sword, struck the ears of the visiting viewer.	consolidated orchestra of kazakh folk instruments , ensembles of ancient kazakh instruments kylkobyz , zhetygen , folklore and dance groups created a memorable enchanting show .	0,67
At the end of the meeting, the participants discussed joint recommendations and mechanisms aimed at implementing five institutional reforms.	at the end of the meeting the participants worked out joint recommendations and mechanisms aimed at implementing of five institutional reforms .	0,67
in turn, he praised Kazakhstan's initiative to hold a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.	in turn , nasir abd al-aziz al-nasser praised kazakhstan 's initiative to convene the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions , which  advances the issues of consent and tolerance , respect and friendship among peoples , cultures and civilizations . "
The project provides for the replacement of old lamps with new ones, as well as the improvement of street lighting, control of street lights.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors of samruk-energo also noted that the joyful Bectemir energy holding in full readiness will begin the processes of large-scale transformations, and also wished the management and the transformation team of the company timely performance of work and maintenance of given high rates.
The head of the region emphasized that he comes to the construction site weekly, continuing to personally control the progress of construction and repair work.
From September 11 to 13, residents and guests of the city will be given the opportunity to get acquainted with the history of our ancestors and the situation of that time.
In addition, the expert noted that several years ago a special agreement was signed between the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Russia.
and then introduces modern methods of treatment in a military hospital, exchanges experience with colleagues, increasing the level of domestic military medicine.
the idea of ​ ​ the forum is reduced to difficult circumstances taking place in the world. now the country has faced the big challenges .
The event was attended by representatives of the departments of statistics, macroeconomic policy, finance of the EEA, as well as manufacturers of the union's integrated accreditation system.
this is a matter of theft, which means that local officials do not carefully complete the work, so local executive bodies should be held accountable, placing responsibility on state bodies.
Note that the original victory flag is stored in the central museum of the armed forces of the Russian Federation.
First Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov spoke at the opening ceremony.
as a result, by decision, the tax ended up in different countries.
The most important thing is that we need peace and the participation of all ethnic small countries, small peoples, "said Sebastian Hotka.
In addition, the capital undertook to invest in EXPO-2017.
Kaplanbek is a village known to the Soviet Union yesterday with wine of the "kaplanbek" brand.
traditional folk sport is not only a beautiful, human exciting event, but also the formation of a Kazakh model of a healthy lifestyle. traditional folk games of sports - it 's not just spectacular event , but also a visual embodiment of the formation of the kazakh model of a healthy lifestyle .
today deputies considered it in the second reading and sent it to the Senate.
In general, 4.7 million hectares were planted in the region, while the grain crop was planted at 4.2 million hectares.
Following the results of the exhibition, the chairman of the city council of rosario thanked Miguel for his active participation, presenting diplomas to the Kazakhstan pavilion.
in this regard, at the first stage, great attention should be paid to the work of young judges, the formation of judicial ethics, and improving the quality of judicial activities.
On December 31, 2014, government decree No. 1448 "On the preparation and holding of the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate in 2015" was issued.
in addition, the use of European tools is much cheaper than today.
in addition, during the visit, in accordance with the decision of the highest collegium of the Congress of Deputies of the city of Santiago de Queretaro for his contribution to the development of cooperation, as well as in respect for the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan received the title of honorary citizen of the city of Santiago de Queretaro.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during a visit to the city Frederikto K. Zhigalov attended a reception with the Governor of the province and held talks with the Deputy Prime Minister of New Brunswick Stephen Horseman, the leadership of the Ministries of Natural Resources, Energy and Mining, the agency "opportunities itiesnb," the port administration St. John and other representatives of the province.
In order to optimize the geographical location of enterprises and tightly control the progress of production, we transfer the heads of the city of Almaty to Shymkent and Kyzylorda. from the point of view of optimizing of the geographical location of the enterprises , in the framework of strengthening of control over the manufacturing process , our heads will be moved from almaty to shymkent and kyzylorda .
We create a Sunday school, a choreographic group and an ensemble on national dance.
Acceptance of kazrc association as a member of crirsco means international recognition of Kazakhstan standards.
As the expert noted, it is important to prepare the Kazakh agenda for the world climate summit.
it is also worth paying attention to the construction of kindergartens and schools.
It is surprising that we are talking about what happened during the study of the history of Kazakhstan, "the professor said.
Within the framework of this memorandum, agricultural producers and Kazagro holding will inform about the vacated places.
According to the results of the regional competition of the best goods of Kazakhstan, all winners were awarded diplomas and memorable gifts.
Today, the authors of the wipon project are working with the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the identification of smuggled alcohol products.
so far, the markup differs from others in that it has its own color and latitude of dimensions.
Kazakhstanis together with Ukrainians participated in the Second World War, the defense of Ukraine in the Great Patriotic War.
at the same time, in almost half of the regions of Kazakhstan, almost 20 percent or more of the manufacturing industry is accounted for by new projects - in the industrialization map, which suggests that in 5 years the process of re-industrialization has begun in these regions.
they own dances for a week, which studied with the heregraph from Alma-Ata, Marat Bekbergenov.
because archival documents reflect the history of the country and are a chronicle of the life of society, documentary evidence of the fate of these people, "said Mr. Abdykalikova, Secretary of State of Kazakhstan.
in addition to the development potential of the capital, the report contained an analysis of the external sphere of Kazakhstan in central and southern Asia, Iran, Turkey.
therefore, the parliamentary assembly, the exchange of relations and experience will intensify parliamentary diplomacy, increase the cooperation of peoples, and guide peace and prosperity.
The goal of the association is to encourage representatives of the business community to participate in civil processes, to contribute to strengthening inter-ethnic tolerance and ethnic harmony, "the deputy said.
this is probably a common problem for all of us.
The business holding together with the company "bi group" began training construction specialists in 10 professional colleges in the country.
I am confident that inter-ethnic and interfaith conflicts will trigger policies that have not been implemented in the right trampoline.
During his speech at the event, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Vietnam, Jumakhanov, noted the positive dynamics of the development of trade and economic relations between the two states.
all of the above helps Kazakhstan's shipping register gain professional trust among foreign port services and foreign shipowners.
also, the National Technical Research University "Brzkmi" and the holding "Professional" concluded a memorandum of cooperation.
The first of these is the reception of reform councils related to the activities of law enforcement agencies.
K.Tokayev congratulated his colleague on signing the protocol on Kyrgyzstan's accession to the Eurasian Economic Union and ratification of this document in the Kyrgyz parliament.
I also thank you for your attention to interreligious dialogue.
we have tools to control the decrease in customs value, we try to automate all measures to avoid customs reduction, "said N. Marusich.
The solemn event was attended by both members of the Kazakh delegation and representatives of the State Department of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the British have now begun work on the internal maintenance of their pavilions.
in case any issues are raised, each meeting should be discussed.
In addition, the center is carrying out scientific and practical work to create a database of electronic terms to achieve the main goals, "said A. Kosusbaev.
In addition, young people show and realize their positions, "said the director of the youth congress.
And the introduction of an updated norm on tire utilization stimulates development, "said A. Rau.
Chairman of the Constitutional Court of Armenia from the gagik art:
In the course of implementing the state policy in the field of education, we strive to form an education system.
this will ensure transparency of these processes both for the prosecutor's office and inspection bodies, as well as for entrepreneurs themselves.
when discussing this topic, it is important to actively involve ethnic groups in solving national problems.
by tradition, the Yeek Minister pays great attention to establishing contacts with the foreign business environment, which carries out its activities in the territory of the EAEU member states.
aa. As Idrissov noted, Kazakhstan and Japan intend to make significant efforts to make a significant contribution to the issue of its entry into force as States affected by the use and testing of nuclear weapons.
in total, 415 pieces of equipment are involved in the projects.
after the universal universiade, all sports facilities will be transferred for the benefit of the population for mass sports.
Since the beginning of the year, 370 enterprises and organizations took part in the fairs, 1437 vacancies were provided.
currently a business plan has been developed that can be shown to any financial institution.
Currently, construction work is underway on 4 sections of the anar-temirtau road with a total length of 92.7 km.
According to the general director of the enterprise sermukhamet akhmutdins, granules are environmentally friendly fuel.
the book contains information about each of them.
maneuvers were controlled by the Kazakh command.
For me, in the book it was important to cover not only certain aspects of the life of the head of state, but also the history of formation as a person, starting with the youth of the president.
the question today is not for the benefit, he promises great success in scientific and technological progress.	mr.president concluded that the matter is not benefit , but scientific and technical progress .	0,68
He noted that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the law on the father, adopted in 1995. the constitution of direct action is a reality , as it is applied by the courts .
life has taught me a lot.
The head of the region Danial Akhmetov stopped at the house of each ethnic group, examined the performances prepared by the artists and congratulated everyone on the holiday of the languages ​ ​ of the people of Kazakhstan.
He also noted that the Kuwaiti country will take part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," which will be held in the capital, "the statement said.
In the fourth convocation, the head of state noted the need to call people to stop the practice of using gardens, including the Internet, to create interfaith disputes between people.
a large number of animal remains were found in houses.
that is, we have access to Chinese documents.
In addition, scientists are studying about a thousand samples of domestic and foreign sura of wheat and oats.
Along with the traditional trading market, Poland, the Baltic countries and the Iranian state in foreign countries are one of the consumers of our goods. in addition to traditional markets , there are poland , the baltic states and iran .
therefore, there are enough people who tell our archaeologists where and what to look for, "the scientist summed up.
these proposals are aimed at radically improving the professionalism of public servants, effective actions to modernize the work of the judicial system and law enforcement agencies, strengthening Kazakhstan's identity, improving the mechanisms for the work of the "open government," transparency and accountability of state bodies, and strengthening public control.
based on the results of the calculation, winners are determined.
It is noted that the opening of the stadium is scheduled for August this year in connection with the xxviii summer regional spartakiad.
The vdma management highly appreciated the strategic state, timeliness and practical significance of the reforms to achieve the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, expressed its readiness to support the process of industrialization of Kazakhstan with German experience, advanced technologies and innovations.
One of the priorities of the Nұrly zhol program is the implementation of the Balapan program, the expansion of the system of preschool educational institutions, as well as work in the framework of public-private partnership.
a third of the company's employees are employed under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program.
the combined operator strengthens the dominance of both companies in the mobile market of Kazakhstan and provides consumers with new opportunities for mobile services.
senators discussed and adopted the law "On Public-Private Partnership."
1 . adjustment of 2015 volume by increasing the 2014 base by KZT982.1 bn;
aa. Idriss also noted the unique experience of Costa Rica in the use of renewable energy sources, whose share is 95-98 percent.
in total, sugar beets with a total area of ​ ​ 4,000 hectares were sown in 5 districts of the region.	the amount of subsidies under the program  agribusiness 2020 " amounted to 240 million tenge .
the products of the stabilization fund are much cheaper.
He noted that in the first half of the year the volume of construction in the region amounted to 169%.
Until the end of July, a group of specialists arrived in the region and formed a plan for further work.
The agreement concluded in Beijing on December 20, 2006 is aimed at ensuring the inviolability of territories, suppressing illegal actions, establishing ways to resolve incidents at the border and regulating the procedure for interaction between border representatives of the two states.
Based on the macroeconomic indicators of the region, in the region we can say that it is good. speaking about the main macroeconomic indicators of the region , it should be noted that there is a positive growth .
Expenditures of the national budget for 2015 are projected in the amount of 7,179.2 billion tenge with a decrease to the approved size by 66.5 billion tenge.
the famous battle on Kazakh soil contributed to the unification of Kazakhs, the rise of popular spirit.
It is noted that residents of rubella villages, loose, beekeeping, 3rd Mangistau region will undergo free screening examinations and receive free medical care for socially significant diseases.
In addition, Kainar-akb, as part of state support, modernized production, and by improving technology, increased production volumes by 2.5 times.
Within the framework of the event, it is planned to hold a specialized exhibition "Prospects of cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan in the field of the agro-industrial complex," in which, in addition to Russian producers, representatives of more than 60 Kazakhstani farms and agricultural formations will take part, the press service of Kazagro reports.
Credit funds in the amount of 6.2 billion tenge were transferred to Kazzinc for the production and export of metallic zinc for a period of 3 years.
a month ago, he made a 10-day trip to the international space station as part of the space program of Kazakhstan.
braces for dumbbells, rod disks.
the Ukrainian leader also expressed interest in intensifying comprehensive cooperation in various areas.
Kazakhstan ranks 12th in terms of oil reserves and 21st in terms of gas reserves, with the oil industry of Kazakhstan among the 30 developed countries in the world in terms of oil reserves. kazakhstan is ranked 12th country in oil reserves and 21st in gas reserves .
the procession was accompanied by the orchestra of the military unit of the 2019 regional administration "South" of the national border service of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main goal of informal leisure is the promotion and introduction of a healthy lifestyle, physical culture and sports among young people, as well as acquaintance with the nature of their native land.
This company is one of the largest in China in terms of water conservation technology.
According to the press service, the event was attended by a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the judicial jury M. Shegenov, judge of the Astana City Court, secretary of the judicial jury R. Zhakudin, acting chairman of the Aktobe Regional Court, chairmen and judges of the regions.
the main goal of this forum is to educate the future competitive generation of Kazakhstanis.
As the expert noted, the customer is obliged to spell out in the protocol the reasons why the statement was not approved.
in particular, the Ministry of Education sent information on the e-learning system for placement.
reduction of prices for goods is possible through energy saving and other measures in this area.
Samruk-kazyna sold for 4.7 billion US dollars.
According to him, public servants will be approved standards for the conditions of real life.
the third is in the field of crafts.
Note that in 2015, 102 countries of the world rated the nominees in 8 areas: the restrictive competence of the institution of power, the elimination of corruption, order and security, the foundations of law, the openness of power institutions, law-abiding, civil law, criminal law.
It is worth noting that such a goal when joining the WTO was achieved by China and Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that the applicants' appeals were related to the appeal of judicial acts in criminal, civil and administrative cases, as well as issues in the socio-economic sphere.
Chairman of the Committee on International Information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Roman Vasilenko and Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan on special assignments and Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs erlan karin will take part in the press conference.
Shadow moments in the financing of patronage enterprises will be the focus of attention to the anti-corruption activities of the Nұr Otan party.
we announce the launch of the Energy Efficiency Partnership Program.	in particular , the heating and lighting supply system will be upgraded , windows and doors will be replaced ,  the press-service reports .
According to the head of the Kushchikovsky district Nikolai Koshikov, today work is underway to lay engineering communications, install a roof and improve courtyards.
The coworking building is an extensive work node where there is everything you need - a computer, a table.
special quality and high productivity of meat of tribal calves for sale.
The interest rate of 4.25% above the libor rate on the US dollar will be applied to the actual amount spent on the credit line.
In addition, as the head of Kyrgyzstan noted, during the summit next year it is planned to hold a world game of nomads on a hot lake.
Today, in the main committee of the Senate, we presented to the deputies the protocol signed on October 16 in the city of Burabai by the heads of the 5 member states of the Eurasian Economic Union, creating the conditions for the implementation of the obligations undertaken by Kazakhstan upon accession to the World Trade Organization. today , in the framework of the ratification of the package on kazakhstan 's accession to the wto in the framework of the parent committee of the senate , we have discussed the protocol , which was signed by the heads of states of five countries of the eaeu on october 16 .
The press conference will be attended by members of kha arala tugzhanov, leonid prokopenko and aigul saduakasova.
every religious leader must adapt to his religion, to his humanity.
The climate framework in the CIS countries does not fall outside the norm approved by the climate commission.
Within the framework of this festival, competitions of artists and an exhibition of their works, concerts of creative groups of ethnocultural associations will be organized.
another important issue is the development of infrastructure, their development has great potential, "he said.
The round table is devoted to five institutional reforms announced by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The meeting participants discussed issues of mutual cooperation between Kazakhstan and Vietnam, especially in strengthening trade and economic ties between the two countries.
Documents are received daily from Monday to Friday from 50 o'clock to 1 o'clock in the city of Aktobe, Tactakhtanov Street, 1 (city akimat building), 9.00 floor, office No. 17.00.
In accordance with the requirements of the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov today, the main efforts for combat training in the ground forces are aimed at improving the professionalism of fighters of all specialties.
Recall that citizens of Kazakhstan, independent journalists, bloggers, heads of popular blogs on Internet platforms can take part in the competition.
In addition, the chairman of the board of Kazavtodor uk Ermek Kizatov entrusted the regional road services with constant control over the number and quality of work of road equipment.
this gathering gives us the opportunity to prepare well, practice, try ourselves.
There is a need to increase the system of regular police posts in public places and on the streets, as well as mobile police posts in regional centres and major cities.
Following the meeting, a solemn announcement of the results of the annual creative competition "shanyrak" in the field of ethnic journalism is expected.
the development of the expo town as part of the capital and after the exhibition.
strengthen relations through each meeting.
During the official meeting, a meeting was held between the Governor's Office of Sko and the administration of the Mongolian Autonomous Region of China. north kazakhstan region differs production of environmentally friendly products .
With the support of members of the city branch of the Nұr Otan party and the city faction, a contest of patriotic songs of young performers "My Homeland-Kazakhstan" was organized.
in accordance with its terms, the Kyrgyz Republic uses a single commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the Eurasian Economic Union from the date of entry into force of this agreement.
In general, the highway is being built according to 2 striped road parameters of the II technical category.
At the ceremony akim of Akmola region Sergey kulagin noted that 15 new projects will be launched in the second five-year plan of industrialization this year, three of them are already working.
because their trade turnover depends on oil exporters, "said the economist.
Chairman of the Committee on Metrology and Technical Regulation of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
The volume of production in the manufacturing industry of the region increased by 1.1% and amounted to 27.1 billion tenge.
Mayor of the city noted that Almaty should widely use international experience in urban planning and have its own architectural appearance of each district.
Today I want to congratulate the head of state on the birthday of the founder of the dance. i would like to congratulate the head of state , the founder of our capital on the birthday of the city .
status and prospects of bilateral cooperation.
In addition, 98 projects totaling 25.5 billion tenge are under consideration by edb.
I am very grateful that today the Kazakh-Japanese conference on the creation of high-quality private and state infrastructure of the capital is taking place. i am glad that today kazakhstan-japanese conference takes place in astana .
The next advanced training course contained information on the features of certification and instructional materials easa, requirements for airport management, management systems.
According to the organizers, East Kazakhstan residents are developing several creative works for the Day of Culture and are carefully preparing to demonstrate the level of development of the region
transformation is a long-term process, the effectiveness of which we plan to see since 2018, "N. Shukeev emphasized.
The burgomaster of Hoppegarten took part in the meeting, during which he expressed gratitude to the organizers of the event, and also expressed confidence in further cooperation with representatives of the Kazakh diaspora in Germany.
Everyone should be responsible for this case, "the akim said.
Vice Minister of Education and Science Tahir Balykbayev and participants of the meeting unanimously supported the holding of this event in Moscow.
the heavy industry, which is cost-effective, negatively affects the ecology of the region.
In addition, the head of the city noted the need to attract investors to public discussion of budget projects allocated to the social sphere.
visited the company for the production of leading dairy products in Kocherbayev highly appreciated the quality of products and technologies, grafted various types of kefir, bioegurt, cheese.
Greeks give maximum support to Kazakhstan's international initiatives. "
the labour burden is not shared by all.
We cannot say that individual judges prepare for the trial in accordance with the requirements. some judges treat the preparation of a process irresponsibly .
The report notes that the organizers of the match invited a sniper from the Republic of Kazakhstan, a master of sports in kickboxing, to the world team.
The measures set will not only increase the annual increase in gross agricultural products in the agro-industrial complex by 12-13%, but on this basis will ensure food security in the region, increase the export potential of the bank, "said Danil Akhmetov during a report to the deputies of the regional maslikhat.
your role in the formation of independent Kazakhstan, the implementation of socio-economic reforms, ensuring inter-ethnic and interfaith harmony, the development of state and public institutions.	lebedev wished nursultan nazarbayev good health , prosperity and new successes for the sake of prosperity of kazakhstan and its citizens .	0,68
In order to reduce inflationary trends and stabilize the price policy of Astana, the implementation of the tariff limit for the production of regulated thermal energy of Astana-Energy JSC was postponed to the second year from 01.07.2015. on the 01.01.2016.
Due to the fact that the chairmanship of the council was entrusted to the Kazakhstani, the zhulat of the kozhamzharov will become the chairman of the council, and the prosecutor general of the Russian Federation will be Yuri seagull.
The purpose of the event is to prevent the population about viral hepatitis, about the methods of infection and spread of diseases, to increase public awareness of promoting a healthy lifestyle, and to increase responsibility for preserving the health of people and children themselves.
the presidents discussed cooperation within the framework of the eurozone single market.
our entrepreneurs can export goods using this opportunity.	in order to cooperate in import-export trade with countries along the silk road , the new region of lianyungang called syuyvey has created 30 000 square meters  silk road pavilion " .
Rent has already been approved and cannot be changed in the future.
The issue of strengthening the cooperation of religious and political leaders, taking into account the current world conditions, discussion and overcoming crisis situations at the international level, will also be comprehensively considered.
these innovations received positive reviews from the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and industry associations.
The high potential and directions of further development of bilateral Kazakh-Argentine cooperation, development of cooperation with Kazakh partners in the field of agriculture and the mining and metallurgical complex, construction and new technologies were noted, the report said.
excess electricity - about 20-25 mw.
why did this become necessary?
The event was attended by about fifty young people, some of whom specially came from other regions.
the main task of the responsible secretary is to organize the work of the organization and the professional work of the apparatus.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 24.09.2015 opened 167 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 78.9 billion tenges, including for legalization of money - 29.4 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting.
science, consulting, veterinary science, phytosanitary, infrastructure projects, social security and measures that do not affect the cost of products.
One of the main methods of attracting people to extremism and terrorism is implemented through the Internet, "said K. Maxim.
Today, airmobile troops are part of the ground forces of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
our producers have a very high potential. so , in nomination " best industrial goods " the winners were " stns-88 , " " kazfoam , " " brissol . "
in addition, the participants of the two teams acted as a real rescuer with special equipment.
More than 100 ethnic groups live under one shanyrak in the world, like good neighbors.
According to the report, as of July 20, 2015, according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
In December this year, a world-class forum will be held in Paris. at the moment there are 150 participants .
we support these steps and are ready for what you find, "the head of state said.
Recall that in August last year, the head of state during his business trip to the region set the task of returning the title of sugar beet center to Almaty region.
the competition includes such nominations as the translation of works in the genres of poetry and prose from the Kazakh language into Russian/from Russian to Kazakh.
The main goal of the coordinating committee is the development of the Trans-Caspian international transport route, the implementation of a coordinated policy on the issue of established tariff conditions for freight transportation, improving the efficiency of transport links, and the creation of an integrated logistics system.
The bill will be considered in the second reading.
Recall that Kazakhstan celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In such a not unilateral situation, it is necessary not to stop moving forward, but to strengthen unity.
in the near future, we will publicly provide information on industry tax pressures. in the near future , the information on the all kinds of tax burdens will be in the public access .
mining and quarrying industries, the share of which depends on the total industry of the region, produced 467.8 billion tenge.
During the meeting, employees of the Department of the Agency of Public Service and the Department of Anti-Corruption carried out a questionnaire on the level of corruption for residents of East Kazakhstan region.
cooperation in various forms.
we can only much, bring our problems to the appropriate bodies, defend our interests and demonstrate to the state a force that can act independently, "he said.
The nomada style of mma is universal and therefore allows any representatives of martial arts and martial arts to participate in competitions.
The CIS has recently undergone some changes, and the shape and composition of the CIS is also changing. recently , the cis is undergoing some changes , and in this respect the composition and configuration of the cis is gradually changing .
many other soloists, choirs and the Astana Opera Theater Symphony Orchestra will also perform at the concert.
- What measures should be taken to prevent the involvement of youth from the Muslim states of the CIS?
today we are seeing negative situations related to the budget. we have already seen deterioration in our budget .
The infrastructure has two cinema halls with 150 and 100 seats, two cafes, a complex of artists.
a new format of targeted social assistance is introduced, which is provided to those in need. there will be a new target social aid .
thus, it will be direct means aimed at checking the professional levels of ships.
N.Nazarbayev noted that the new civil procedure code will radically improve the sphere of law.
in general, after accession to the WTO, integration with it and subsequent overeating are not uncommon. quite a lot of negative examples in the integration of the countries become members of the wto , and later reaped the bitter fruits .
Therefore, it is proposed to amend the agreement and introduce a permitting system for transportation from third countries or to third countries, "the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said in his report.
because the most important issue of our time is interethnic relations.
Kazakh servicemen regularly participate in the competition, demonstrate their high level of individual training and always take prizes.
participants will pass through obstacle lanes, master combined arms defensive sets, perform exercises on throwing knives and shooting.
Journalists and bloggers on the Internet, along with full-fledged publications, widely inform society about positive changes in the armed forces, army activities and combat traditions, the image of the feat and heroism of modern military personnel.
As the head of state said, those who want to make a profit, the government will keep and strictly punish.
- The current state of the world economy is forcing various countries to expand their partnerships.
energy of the future, "as well as attention will be paid to innovative, applied energy solutions and their impact on the environment.
The mayor also noted that the state program for the development of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020 is being implemented.
at that e. Professor of the Institute of Oncology and Genetics of the Medical School of Kazykhanov Cardiff University by kipling and Kazakhstani students studying at higher educational institutions in Wales.
In conclusion, the head of state noted that the impact of the consequences of the global crisis and the aggravation of the main problems of economic development make interstate dialogue especially relevant and necessary.
George came from the diamond region, is an active participant in projects dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
however, among the provisions there are sections containing a general issue of research.
the conversation was initiated by the Turkish side.
Most young people aged 16 to 29 in many EU countries are unemployed, do not study and do not improve their qualifications in the field of education, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
and German enterprises that want to develop their business in Kazakhstan will negotiate and get acquainted with new partners b2b in order to find interested partners for the implementation of projects related to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
In the case of construction and launch of the plant, about 700 people will work here.
Within the framework of the memorandum within the framework of the international exhibition "expo-2017," the introduction of the best world passenger service practices into production will be considered.
it is also emphasized that everyone has the right to judicial protection of his rights and freedoms, "said N. Razzak.
Head of the Department of Informatization and Public Education of the Department of Control and Preventive Activities in the Field of Fire Safety of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ruslan Imankulov, coordinator of the program for disaster risk reduction of the children's fund "Unicef" almagul Mukhamedkhanov, expert of the Altynsarina National Academy of Education.
its main theme is the dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for peace and development.
firstly, if the government of Kazakhstan organized a permanent display of all religious symbols in the palace of peace and harmony, and also constantly demonstrated the sacred inscriptions of each religion, this would be an example of unity, "the Indian guest suggested.
now we are repeating the situation of 2013, market volumes are declining. the market volume has slightly narrowed .
they provoke sectarianism and arrangement within the country, as well as delay young people.
participants of the round table exchanged views on the observance of interethnic harmony in geopolitical life, ways and methods of solving difficult situations.
In 2015-2016, the national nuclear company will purchase from local entrepreneurs electrical equipment (transformers), fuel and lubricants, workwear, pipes, paper products, etc.
will also increase the rating of the mineral and raw materials sector for foreign and domestic investors.
In addition to the 5th mechanized brigade, more than 20 units of military units of the ground forces, including units of airmobile troops, will take part in the upcoming exercise.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 12.10.2015 opened 169 savings accounts on legalization of the money for total amount of 79.9 billion tenges including withdrawn from the savings account of 30.0 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 3.0 billion tenges of charge for legalization of money.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 15.10.2015 opened 169 savings accounts on legalization of the money for total amount of 79.9 billion tenges including withdrawn from the savings account of 30.0 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 3.0 billion tenges of charge for legalization of money.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks as of 26.10.2015 opened 174 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 80.5 billion tenge, including for legalization of money withdrawn from the savings account with payment of 3.0 billion tenge to the budget.
the first cargoes of the silk road were sent.
At the same time, according to the bill, anti-corruption monitoring and analysis measures will be covered.
The Minister of Egypt accepted the invitation with gratitude and expressed confidence in participating in these events.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of the Turkic Academy in the context of a comprehensive and deep study of the history and culture of Turkic-speaking states.
it is also necessary to continue the dialogue between law enforcement agencies and universities in order to form high-class personnel.
In this center, the construction of 5 shopping centers and multidisciplinary warehouses of agricultural products begins.
more than 400 companies from 24 countries take part in the anniversary exhibition.
it has an area of ​ ​ 1,294 square meters. m, assembly hall, 10 office rooms, 12 guest rooms, dining room.
then he goes to the program (semi-objective existence).
Such holidays as the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate are very needed. such momentous events as the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate are very necessary .
professional and practical skills of participants are evaluated here.
According to the commander of the colonel's unit, Nurlan Tausarov, the new training class contributed to the positive results of the educational process and combat training.
It is noted that the committee is the new advisory body of ECE.
there was a hearth in the center of the house, there were many farm pits on the walls of the house.
this complex will take parms in the modern world, which will increase the capacity of our berths, "said M. Yalbachev.
Today, Kazakhstani servicemen are studying in military educational institutions of the national liberation army of China.
Kazakhstanis have a lot of choices, he works for hire or begins his business.
The main event will be the choice of the city for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
The procuratorial authorities, which exercise on behalf of the State the highest supervision of the actual and precise application of laws, and the identification of normative legal acts contrary to the Constitution.
and Israel, Egypt, India and other States have shown interest in establishing IVF.
According to the department, applications for the receipt of these forms can be seen through the web portal www.elicense.kz "e-licensing."
in accordance with subparagraph 2) of paragraph 4 of Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan on convening a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan to convene a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 10 o'clock in July 2015 in Astana, the text of the order says.
delegates agreed that extremism and terrorism should be seen as a close phenomenon, that responsibility for addressing these major global threats of our time should be on the shoulders of each State.
The basis of the economy of the Karmakshin region is agriculture.
the company has 2323 jobs.
it will be signed soon.
In general, in order to provide the Kazakhstan market with high-quality domestic oil and gas products, it is necessary to improve the legislation and change the management system governing this industry, "D.Nazarbayev said.
in addition, the main source of financing for such work is the capital of the international market.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 01.10.2015 opened 167 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 78.9 billion tenges, including for legalization of money - 29.4 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.9 billion tenges of collecting.
the gold top prize is awarded in 4 nominations: "best prose," "best poetry," best drama "and" best children's literature. "
special attention was paid to strengthening inter-parliamentary partnership.
aviation duty continues with helicopters of the rescue service of the city of Kazaviakontroler and the city of Alamata.
new dual learning technologies are being introduced in the general and vocational technical education system.
The development of the political science complex was attended by the best scientific experts in the field of political science of the country. the manual was developed by leading academics and experts in political science .
It is worth noting that the motorcycle race dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is dedicated to the deep history of Kazakhstan.
At the next stage, starting in 2020, it is envisaged to submit a declaration on the assets and obligations of all other individuals, "the minister said.
The Minister also noted the fruitful activities of the Secretary General of the Government and experts of the parties in the qualitative preparation of the anniversary summit.
On the second day, the audience is waiting for Eugene Brusilovsky's opera Wolf.
in particular, common target indicators have been developed to assess the performance of branches.
A cooperation agreement for 2015-2017 was also concluded between the Nұr Otan School of Political Management and the Higher Party School
264.7 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned in Mangistau region from January to May.
Participants will also take part in practical master classes of media trainers and will receive technical advice from specialists-creators of the project site.
g., according to Salimov, all applications will be sent in online format.
thanks to participation in this forum, our enterprises have the opportunity to enter the Russian market.
only through the world trade organization can Kazakhstan open up the entire world market.
here children will be able to do scientific work and implement additional education programs in the field of astronomy, physics and space.
the parties discussed the main issue of the meeting - the upcoming visit of the Chairman of the Supreme Constitutional Court of the Egyptian Arab Republic Adli Mansur to Kazakhstan.
The working trip of the head of the region was concluded with an active meeting.
this made it possible for the commission to carefully study and select each family, which will go to the decisive stage.
The Ecu Parliamentary Assembly works closely with the Ecu Bureau with democratic human rights institutions and with the partners of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
this additionally warned residents about the repair work, about the cessation of water supply, and so on.
In July 2014, additional incentive packages for foreign investors were adopted.
At this stage, the issues that caused the socio-economic and socio-political situation were resolved.
The celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan began on August 8 in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the patriotic action "Faithful to the Law."
the facility is expected to be commissioned in November of this year.
the first group of students has already returned, works in your country.
the state of the automobile market in the Republic of Kazakhstan is currently characterized by insufficient development of service networks, it is necessary to attract investments in the organization of car centers and service stations.
the secret Masur proposed to conclude an export agreement as soon as possible and submit it to the board in September this year.
anyone can take the aita test and find out the result within 20 minutes.
The goal of the consortium members is to diversify the economy, implement international engineering educational programs for the training of new personnel aimed at the development of domestic products and the innovative sector of the country.
Governor of the region Amandyk Batalov, head of the Department of Scientific and Technical Policy of the Committee of Science of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aliyeva took part in the meeting.
Note that the national multimedia operator ktz express is a 100 percent child organization ktc.
According to J. Tokyshev, such raid measures usually show their results.
the conference specially recorded their scientific interviews of more than 140 scientists in the field of history, linguistics, political science and economics.
The fourth central water supply system offers new opportunities for regional development and will provide quality clean drinking water to the city of whitewash and nearby settlements.
Head of the Ministry of Railway Transport of Turkmenistan Bairam Annameredov, President of the Railway of the Islamic Republic of Iran muhsen agami discussed the creation of common tariff conditions, increasing cargo flows through the new railway line river - future - mound and north-south corridor.
in addition, this procedure will be used for subjects of industrial and innovative activities.
I believe that today Kazakhstani lawyers work in high-level courts. today kazakhstani lawyers are considered as profs in international courts .
Vice Minister noted the need to substantiate curricula and programs for training, retraining and advanced training of specialists in professional standards.
of which 17.5 hectares are oilseeds, 185 thousand hectares are cereals, 22 thousand hectares are annual herbs.
this is the only complex located at a distance of 3 thousand kilometers from the ocean.
In accordance with the document, amendments were introduced on the telecommunications market, public procurement, subsidies and compensation measures, as well as in the field of registration of medicines and intellectual property.
In the first year of service, it is planned to increase the average flight time of the aircraft for one day to 7.3 hours.
Jeremy Drew, Sunny Christian, Tito Syzdyks and Shomody Kalman will still hold the position of independent directors of the company.
This list includes the 5 largest economies of the European Union - Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands.
Kazakhstan is currently a bridge connecting east and west.
I have great potential.
At the same time, according to him, the company is developing its medium-term plan, this time it is drawing up a plan taking into account low oil prices.
a lot of work was done on the fuel transportation workshop, the reconstruction of linear conveyors was completed.
In a short historical period, trade between Kazakhstan and China grew from 337 million dollars to 22 billion dollars. for a short historical period , the volume of trade turnover raised from 300 million dollars to 22 billion dollars .
B. Saparbayev informed the guests about the state of roads and projects in the field of road construction of the region.
therefore, a special hall opens in the library, the essence of which is deep.
this is not only an issue to be resolved at the agricultural level, which should be resolved in the socio-political, educational, scientific degree.	according to her , if all ethnic groups participate in the reforms of the country , they realize their involvement and equal rights .	0,69
During the meeting, the leaders of the two states discussed issues of Eurasian integration and cooperation in connection with Kyrgyzstan's accession to the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as new conditions for its support within the framework of the EAEU.	the leaders discussed the issues of the eurasian integration and new conditions of cooperation in terms of the eurasian economic union .	0,69
Medical use of medicines is regulated in accordance with the instruction when undergoing state registration.	in addition , in accordance with the rules of organization and a single purchase , the state created the commission of experts to examine the drugs compliance .	0,69
During the meeting, the Mayor of the city noted that Akhmetzhanov plays a decisive role in the fight against doping in the Central Asian region of Almaty, noting that in 2022 an anti-doping laboratory was created in the country.	during the meeting , mayor of the city akhmetzhan yessimov noted the key role of almaty in the fight against doping in the central asian region , which in 2002 was set up anti-doping laboratory .	0,69
In Kazakhstan, the fertility rate has remained optimal over the past five years.
Last year, 172 families took part in the competition, this year 253 families took part in the competition.
The forum in ted format will be attended by several speakers who will discuss topical issues in the region.
Do not forget that our history, which lasted hundreds of years, is connected with the history of the Russian people. we must remember that we have a centuries-long historic path with the peoples of russia , first of all .
According to him, on the initiative of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs, a tripartite agreement was signed in the field of training personnel with professional education.
In addition, the mast plans to visit Kostanay cultural and production facilities.
Sharif noted that the strengthening of institutional mechanisms in bilateral relations will have a positive impact on integration processes, the preservation of peace and stability in the entire region.
interestingly, in this work each instrument has the same meaning.
Kazakh military musicians have extensive experience in participating in festivals of this level.
the Prosecutor General's Office and the Ministry of Justice are working in this direction.
A working visit to Aktau was continued by a meeting at Mangistauaumunaigas JSC, which discussed the course of previously concluded memoranda on preserving jobs, stabilizing production processes and developing Kazakh content.
At the end, the prospects for further development of trade and economic cooperation in the conditions of volatility of foreign exchange markets around the world were discussed.
At the same time, the existing procurement system does not meet the requirements and conditions of the world trade organization adopted under the Eurasian agreement of Kazakhstan, "said the general director for the transformation of white business" samruk-kazyna "man ilkevičius.
The signing ceremony of the agreement on the creation of an inter-parliamentary council, chaired by the chairman of the Supreme Council of Kyrgyzstan asylbek Zheenbekov, was completed.
and in order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to work in two directions.
At the beginning of 2020, Kazakhstan can reach the level of production of 2 million barrels per day, "said T. Kulybayev.
Deputy Governor of the region reported on the main directions of reforms related to state activities.
he noted the relevance of deepening cooperation in the fight against cybercrime and confirmed the interest of the Internet industry in studying British best practices in the field of cybersecurity.
One of our goals today is to attract investors to purchase equipment for the implementation of this project. our goal is the search for an investor for the purchase of equipment for the production of ground-based tactile boards for the blind and visually impaired people .
The head of state noted the readiness of the three regions to conduct a harvesting campaign and emphasized the need to strengthen its pace.
Taking this into account, the head of the region noted the need to expand this center and instructed the akimat of the city to allocate a land plot for the construction of a new oncological dispensary as soon as possible.
small farmers enjoy the main State support, so that their integration into cooperatives will allow for the use of many State support measures and will achieve opportunities such as financial recovery, loan security, and second-tier banking. small farmers are aside of the state support and , accordingly , these cooperatives , legal entities will give an access to support measures like financial recovery , loans security , support of second-tier banks .
winners of the "Hope for the Secret" award were awarded a special diploma and prize in the amount of 150 thousand tenge.
for the first time in Kazakhstan the method of direct landscaping was applied in Almaty.
In turn, Ahmadi Shukriysky thanked all those invited to the conference and thanked for the assistance, especially the humanitarian assistance provided to Afghanistan.
their goal is to stimulate the development of private energy service companies for the provision of complex types of energy saving services with coverage of financial revenues and individual costs from saving energy savings.
based on the results of the discussion, the recommendations of the commission were developed and instructions were given to authorized state bodies.
at the same time, the Kazakhstan Energy Saving Institute was created, which is the operator of the state energy register.
According to the deputy head of the migration police department of the North Kazakhstan region Bauyrzhan Sadvakasov, out of 960 permits issued to foreigners, 105 were for women, 855 for men.
the bill is aimed at improving personnel work in the judicial system, improving the independence of judges, and modernizing the activities of the higher judicial council.
the second and third places were divided by detachments of young inspectors of the Kazkala secondary school of the working district and the gymnasium of the city of Makinka, Bulandynsky district.
According to the CEO of baker and makenzi international, the second priority is that Kazakhstan will be able to fully realize its agricultural potential at every square kilometer.
to date, twenty-five photo registration points have been identified located in the areas of "saryarka," "yesil" and "active."
During 26 inspections of state bodies, 41 violations of the law were registered, 10 civil servants were brought to justice.
in Kazakhstan, the Arab Emirates and Italy.
after your leadership has gained the independence of your State, our relationship deepens and widens every day.
several more received books.
there will be no people without history.
there are seven workshops equipped with modern precision machines and production lines.
in general, this is a controversial issue.
The main emphasis will be on increasing cooperation between schools and state bodies to solve problems of violence against children, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
There are three bills considered for realization of the relevant activities: about public control on target indicators of fraction of Nr Otan party, about anti-corruption and about access to information ", - A. Solovyova told.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the summits in Ufa are a vivid manifestation of the movement of its participants in the link of world processes.
During the exhibition EXPO-2017 within the framework of the project in the field of renewable energy.
Of course, within an hour and a half it is not easy to fulfill this goal.
Sagadiyev also noted that foreign direct investment in Kazakhstan began to be attracted to those areas that had not previously been interested in foreign investors.
such negotiations are now underway within the eurozone, "the minister explained.
production increased by 4% and amounted to 14 trillion 605 billion tenge.
there is only one requirement - this assistance should not contradict national legislation.
Within the framework of the industrialization map for the first five-year plan, 184 projects were implemented in the South Kazakhstan region for a total of 137 billion tenge, 11 thousand new jobs were created.	akim askar myrzahmetov met with chairman of the board of  development bank of kazakhstan " jsc bolat zhamishev and discussed additional reserves for economic growth and the new investment projects .
Do not forget that by starting the event, the marat crown of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "we can adequately respond to modern challenges, only preserving our native language, spirituality, traditions, values.
Within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020," 35 projects totaling 2,791,23 million tenge were involved in the production infrastructure.
Recall that 32 wrestlers took part in the final of the competition, who passed three stages of the qualifying competitions, as well as the winner of last year.
According to the deputy director of the marat chamber Iskakov, the agricultural industry is the largest enterprise in the field of wood processing.
In the first half of the year, a 20 of projects 6 a private project with foreign participation are being implemented.
novelty applies only to legal entities.
In turn, the head of state congratulated on the appointment of an ambassador to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The goal of the patriotic game is to increase the effectiveness of the educational work of patriotism in schools of education.
heads of delegation also discussed the problems of theft of vehicles, trafficking in new psychoactive and psychotropic substances, drugs, as well as such dangerous chemicals.
It is worth noting that such measures aimed at reducing the number of accidents involving the kazavtodor and the "whites" are held in all regions of the country.
from this point of view, our current goal is to prevent the entry into force of legislative acts that contradict the requirements of the law or allow distortion of the law, "he explained.
Nursultan Nazarbayev took part in the implementation of a number of documents within the framework of the state visit to China.
From August 25 to 27, Aytekebi region will arrive in Aktobe region.
Conservation work is also carried out on buildings, streets and quarters - medieval urban planning sites discovered during archaeological research.
It is noted that this action will contribute to improving the work of educating young people, comprehensively expanding the knowledge of young people about the history, traditions, culture of the people of Kazakhstan.
The factor point threshold applied according to the system of remuneration of civil servants will be introduced from January 1, 2016. it is assumed that the factorial and point scale of wages of civil servants will be implemented from january 1 , 2016 .
During the event, the results of global regional conferences on this issue and the agenda of the upcoming summit with the participation of heads of state in New York in September were discussed.
in addition, a number of incentive measures are proposed for intensive legalization.
For example, in October this year, during the joint Expo-2017 forum, Almaty entrepreneurs signed an agreement for 10 billion tenge in order to implement measures related to Expo.
The production will be attended by famous artists of the country and pupils of the Kazakh National University of Arts, for example, an ensemble of violinists (150 people), an ensemble of cellists (150 people), artists, film dramatists and directors (60 people), pupils of the folklore ensemble.
it creates the foundation of society and tolerance. "
According to the general opinion of the deputy and V. Gotsin, such visits will further strengthen the strategic partnership between our states.
During the meeting, Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov told the guests about our region, spoke about its industrial and innovative development, dynamic strengthening of the agro-industrial complex.
In fact, the work of the session began on July 27, IOC delegates and representatives of the committees that submitted applications in Almaty and Beijing began to arrive in the capital of Malaysia.
Within the framework of the forum, three panel sessions are planned with master classes of domestic and foreign speakers on topical issues of the development of the garden, blogging industry, an exhibition of gardens of ethnocultural associations and a photojournalist "Year of Kha."
The past twenty years in the history of modern Kazakhstan have become the time for the implementation of strategic tasks to ensure the rule of law and the laws of our country.
At the same time, work experience is taken into account not in the public service, and in the future the candidate will undergo initial training at the Academy of Public Administration, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
He also recalled that from January 1, 2016, legal entities, individual entrepreneurs using a special tax regime, patent and simplified declaration should use pos terminals.
non-discrimination in bidding between members of this organization is the main principle of the WTO.
Also, a greenhouse with plants will work at the school.
many receive a bachelor's degree in biology and chemistry, "he explained.
a preliminary agreement was reached between the two academies on cooperation and exchange of experience in training public officials in the field of project management.
this means that there will be very strong competition, and only the best will go and remain in the civil service, "said A. Batyrbaev.
the supremacy of the Kazakh constitution because of this.
the company is ready to provide equipment for bakeries and mini-bakeries, meat processing plants, canneries, refrigerator warehouses along the line of vegetables and fruits, agreeing even to the implementation of the project to us from the very beginning.
Majilismen will consider a number of ratification documents.
The work of the council was led by the rector of the Eurasian National University named after L.N. Gumileva, Chairman of the Board of Rectors of Kazakh Universities erlan Sydykov.
The goal of the conference is to increase the literacy of representatives of the publishing garden and demonstrate new opportunities in the field of using media tools for switching to online format.
The event will be supported by the international Turkish organization and the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan.
simultaneously on bypass roads.
such a requirement must be strictly observed.
Also, participants in the competition will be able to view their documents, "said the vice minister.
today 184 people work here, after commissioning, the number of workers is expected to increase to 220 people.
the parties agreed to use high-quality Kazakh silicon for the manufacture of solar modules.
In this regard, the Ministry of the Interior and the command of the National Guard decided to transfer the air base to the capital.
In the twenty-first century, the main task of mankind is to implement a strategy that will rid the world of the threat of war and eliminate its causes. in this sense , it is vital to refuse support of the unconstitutional and illegal actions of any forces in any country leading to the destructions , " he said .
statistics also confirm this.
in fact, I wanted to return home, freed from my heart.
such a device was found among the Uzbeks, and this was the financial path for acquisition, "said N. Tashimbetov.
however, specific projections themselves cannot be used to meet the needs of the labour market.
On the eve of the Constitution Day, a competition for knowledge of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held among radio hosts. on the eve of the day of the constitution , it was decided to hold a competition among radio listeners .
During their expedition, scientists visited remote villages and met with residents.
with the participation of the chairmen of the colleges of regional courts and courts, district courts and equal judges, as well as law enforcement agencies, entrepreneurs in the regions.
as a state located in the lower reaches of the Kazakh rivers, these issues are of particular importance. for kazakhstan , these issues are of particular relevance , as it is a country located downstream of the rivers .
The project is aimed at implementing the instructions of the head of state to increase the competitiveness of Kazakh youth and increase participation in the development of domestic business.
By order of the head of state, Mamed Bakirovich Atamkulov was appointed head of the protocol of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
negotiations related to the entry of goods into the market.
in accordance with the new law on subsoil and subsoil use, the Australian method of transferring subsoil use rights in the poorly studied territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan was introduced.
- 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms - on charity, aimed at implementing the plan of the nation and creating legal grounds for charity, its stimulation
The event was opened by Russian Foreign Minister Vladimir Puchkov, who noted that the forum is an effective platform for exchanging experience in the field of disaster response, as well as familiarization with new technologies and methods in emergency situations.
Now the Kazakhstan Register of Shipping can unify and coordinate the forms of ship's documents that facilitate the work of shipowners in mutual recognition of documents at the entrance to the port of participants in all ships, as well as reduce the costs of shipowners for technical inspection of ships.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov arrived in New York to prepare the visit of Kazakhstan and promote Kazakhstan's appeal to the UN Security Council.
we have a unique situation where retail trade in petroleum products is regulated by the state, and wholesale - abandoned. we have a unique situation : the retail prices of petroleum products are regulated by the state and the wholesale market is uncontrolled element of the free market .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions in the field of space activities.
Among the companies supported by the state is the project of a diamond bekaidarov novice entrepreneur.
the construction of the sculpture was carried out by a group of architects and members of the urban planning union of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the leadership of the honorary architect of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kazybek Zharylgapov.
There are no sites in Europe itself where you can express independent opinions and explain the importance of religion in the formation of cultural space, "said R. Bogdasarov.
this is very important, and it needs to be implemented, because Russia is faced with an event such as the fall of the ruble. it is crucial to carry out such a measure , as , for instance , kegoc - power line has already worked out the plan to increase tariffs by 17 % .
The head of Kuandyk Bishimbayev holding said that the list of projects intended for joint implementation of Chinese partners includes both large projects and small and medium-sized business projects.
meat products produced at the feedlot will be provided by Kyzylorda, Baikonur, Almaty cities, as well as exported to Russia, Uzbekistan.
In the entire history of the world universiade, such numerous gold medals were received by students of one university.
salt, coal and sand for road treatment.
Also, at the end of the year, we will evaluate the work of each akim according to the rating compiled in connection with the implementation of state programs, the implementation of tasks of 100 specific steps. "
20 years ago, we highly appreciate the help of eu and intas in preserving our scientific and innovative potential.
The expected date for the implementation of the technical order of the Eurasian Economic Union "On the safety of oil prepared for transportation and (or) operation" is March 1, 2017.
As you know, this year the results of the championship were high, as a result of which 67 thousand young people take part in the competition for the award of educational grants, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
The Operational Council for Optimizing Measures to Comply with the Procedure for Confirming Conformity of Products with the Requirements of the Eurasian Economic Union and National Legislation was held by Acting Chairman of the ICRC G. Dugalov.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the People's Liberation Army of China has demonstrated to the whole world its power and level of technical equipment.
many young people want to connect their future with the profession of pilot or engineer and serve in the armed forces of the country.
As a result, thousands of jobs will be created.
According to him, today the Prosecutor General's Office has results on the concept in several areas.
one of them is attracting foreign investment.
He also invited the national company Astana Expo 2017 to take part in the Paris conference on climate change, which will be held in late November or early December.
We all know that investment plays an important role in industrialization, improving the technological level.	despite a significant decline of investments , in the world by 16 % , and in the region by 50 % , kazakhstan did not retreat from the reached position in terms of foreign investments ,  ye.khairov has informed .
Since the beginning of the year, the current unit of small and medium-sized enterprises has grown to 93,546 units.
There was an exchange of views on the prospects for the development of dialogue between the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Sejm of Latvia, as well as on mutual cooperation between the two countries in the field of education.
As follows from the report, the number of registered pre-trial crimes in the republic increased by 25.9% compared to the same period last year.
the number of employed increased by 3.7% 2 million 770 thousand people.
Then compartment No. 4 began to turn off water on a burning vessel from three columns of stall.
in addition, the clinic introduced a "triage system" so that children and adults do not meet each other during their stay at the reception of specialists or before registration.
Note that the document is aimed at legislating self-regulation, which will be an alternative to state regulation, will lead to a decrease in the costs of implementing state regulation, as well as provide flexibility of regulation and effective consideration of the interests of market participants.
The plant, located in the village of Bektobe, will produce meat products that meet the standards of "halal."
Today, sports facilities are being built in Kazakhstan that meet international requirements, world-class sports events are being held.
For ten days, the special forces of the two countries, the air defense forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan worked out the destruction of the conditional base of militants, shooting, parachuting from a height of 3,000-4,000 meters, and also made a 50-kilometer march.
in addition, protecting the rights of children with disabilities from low-income segments of the population and vulnerable segments of the population - children from low-income families, "said the vice minister.
It is noted that the project for the construction of a new plant for the production of white dry building mixtures and gypsum products "Dzhambylgipps" is being implemented as part of the "Industrialization Map of Kazakhstan."
this is not only for us, in many countries such cases occur.
in the near future, all this will be completed and there is a big question of what to expect.	there is a point to think over - how to implement all the consequential initiatives .
because of this, the wages of people are not reduced.
participants had to demonstrate their intellectual, creative abilities, information and communication competencies.
Smithsonian Institution - an educational and research institute, is the world's largest fund of exhibits, museum values ​ ​ and artifacts in connection with the museum complex.
The main goal of the ethnocultural center is to preserve harmony and public peace. the main goal of any ethnocultural center is the preservation of peace and social harmony in our country .
One of its main goals is to develop advice on determining the priorities of the commission's policy, the formation and implementation of state policy regarding the family.
but I will not be able to win, and I will be brave in this attempt! " - the main motto of the movement.
We are glad that we are part of the organization of such large events as Expo 2017, "said Alexander Vinokurov, Olympic champion and general manager of the Astana pro team.
According to the press service of the EEC, in order to ensure the general commodity name of foreign economic activity of the Eurasian Economic Union (ee sec.
champions and prize-winners of regional and republican olympiads above the 7th grade are accepted into the sports boarding school.
From the beginning of the year to October of this year, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, a program is being implemented to supply food wheat from the state reserve at fixed prices for wheat processing enterprises in the capital.
such meetings will expand the business partnership of manufacturers in the field. due to such meetings , the large companies can expand the business cooperation with local producers able to deliver products required in investment projects .
winner of the main rank of Commonwealth soldier sergeant orynbek sandibekov (1oryn), senior sergeant rustam satzhans (2) and senior sergeant amirzhan mayushev (3).
It is worth noting that we received the most applications from producers of grain crops and milk, "said R. Tajibayev.
winners are waiting for valuable gifts.
I think that by the end of this year a decision will be made and we will begin to build phase 2.
strengthening cooperation in the scientific and technical sphere and education, as well as intensifying work related to the simplification of the legal framework and visa regime.
in Mangistau region it is planned to visit Mangistau, Videu districts, and in Kyzylorda region - in Karmakshin, Kazalin and Shieli districts.
we must support non-governmental organizations that want to change the city until we can, facing multiple challenges and seeking to solve it. we need to support all the non-governmental organizations , which change the city for the better .
The total area of ​ ​ 1000 residential buildings is 70,459, 7 square meters.
our parents need special personnel to convey pedagogical literacy in their relationship with children, which we can prepare. in order parents had teaching literacy , we need personnel .
Japan is a very active investor in Kazakhstan, we attracted $4.6 billion in direct investment from Japan. japan is active investor - there were more than 4.6 billion dollars of direct investments .
According to the head of the region, the current problem is the lack of a connection between production and science.
of these, 313 objects were put up for auction, 173 objects were sold, 140 objects were put up for auction or a second time.
then our Su-25 attack aircraft competed with Russian and Belarusian pilots.
changes made to the organization of unloading of goods made it possible to optimize the production processes of the berth, "the speaker said.
The holding of this interreligious forum will contribute to the formation of tolerance in the world, the fight against terrorism and extremism in various faith-based organizations.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies, independent experts and representatives of the Kazakh diaspora.
contacts of employment centers are not very good and are not fully ensured.
According to him, in connection with numerous reforms, work in our country, we have achieved this result.
The meeting participants considered the import of Iranian cement sold in Kazakhstan without certificates of conformity.
All 17 million Kazakhstanis these days, having looked at this event, wished this.
they teach conductors ethics, speech culture resolution and controversy.
do not close only in the framework of construction, involve your companies in various areas.
Thanks to a team of top managers, the company's brand brought losses only to the university in more than 4 years. thanks to the team of top managers the company left the level of loss , for more than four years the university makes a profit .
3 residential buildings are planned to be built in the area of ​ ​ the Titov microdistrict, the rest - on the street of the unlocked batyr.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the main goal of the plan is to modernize the system of propaganda and use of state symbols aimed at strengthening Kazakhstan's identity and unity.
Since the content of accounts adapts to the requests of different audiences, the form of news transmission will differ.
In her speech, Mr. Abdikalikova noted that the effectiveness of anti-corruption mechanisms is the only condition for the successful implementation of the national plan proposed by the President of Kazakhstan aimed at the comprehensive modernization of the country.
that is, through competitive human capital, we will achieve the goals outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, which is the main point of our country.
Skakov noted that these steps are a continuation of the reform of the integration of the tax and customs systems.
According to V. Koreshkov, in accordance with the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, member states pursue an agreed policy in the field of standardization and unity criteria.
Also on this day, a round table was held on partnership and prospects in the field of railway transport engineering in Kazakhstan.
According to the press service of the national company, after that, industry veterans wished Bertrand Rubenstein and Marat Hamzin, Acting Head of the Education Department of Astana Baglan Smataev.
The head of state also drew attention to the fact that on the eve of Capital Day competitions visited the whole country.
we must learn to compete for our market.
In general, the consideration of criminal cases with their participation is growing, and many citizens turn to him, "he added.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed on focused work for the full participation of the Malaysian side in the expo 2017.
I think that a solution that can be applied in the absence of opportunity, because it is impossible to streamline social relations until the law is resolved. i think this is an extreme point of view , if there is no specification of the law the effective resolution of social relations cannot exist .
Over the past year, the Ministry of Education and Science has introduced a number of changes in the choice of the student environment. over the past year the ministry has undertaken a number of systemic measures to improve the quality of student selection and formation of the continent .
Thus, as noted during the forum, the memorandum of understanding is aimed at expanding bilateral cooperation and strategic partnership on energy conservation and energy efficiency.
Today, the Majilis also approved the accompanying bill in the second reading.
According to the commander of the battalion, Major Hero Ushamov, military personnel show a good level of training.
large volumes of construction and the need for sand will lead to the use of domestic goods, "he said.
This is the first city in the world to receive a green city certificate.
Almaty street, which was under the stones as a result of the flood, was completely cleared. it was possible to completely clean out almaly street .
And the patience of parents and their concern for their own patients is to delight children with success and joy, "said Governor of the region S. Kulagin.
opening a business and a business will be open.
I hope that the dialogue platform of this conference will become a catalyst for progressive proposals that contribute to the development of innovations in the field of the green "economy.
officially our state will become 162 members of a trade organization.
raw materials are imported from nearby villages, milk collection is established, the company produces 2.5 tons of dairy products per day.
In team competition on the Cup of Kazakhstan on hand-to-hand fight athletes from Akmola region took the first place.
The main goal of the action is to provide material sponsorship to orphans, children from low-income and large families.
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the Committee for Control in the Field of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Director of the Department of Information Technologies, Preschool and Secondary Education Zhontayev, the Director of the Center "textbook" Miroshkul Karimov.
On the same day, a new outpatient clinic was opened in three villages of Mangistau district.
Administration of Aktobe region has determined interest in attracting Turkish investments in the implementation of large projects.
The seminar is held in order to present the national obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve the main legal legislation in this area.
Following the event, the parties expressed confidence in further expanding cooperation on the activities of the courts of the two countries.
The head of the city visited the construction sites of the village of athletes for 5 thousand seats in the Alatau district, an ice arena for 12 thousand seats and an ice arena for 3 thousand seats in the medeu district.
in radiological center in department of radionuclide diagnostics and therapy.
In addition, the parties discussed the training of Kazakh military personnel in military educational institutions of Kazakhstan, the interest of American military educational institutions in cooperation with universities of Kazakhstan, as well as modern methodologies for collecting and training.
raw materials will not always be in demand and the price of raw materials will not remain so high that we will not live only at the expense of raw materials.
the purpose of the conference is to develop concrete proposals for the creation of managerial equipment and civic participation in strengthening public harmony. the main purpose of this conference is to develop specific recommendations in the discourse of technology management and the expansion of citizen participation in strengthening public consent .
they will be provided with a social package that provides for the payment of transportation costs, the provision of office housing or a room in a hostel, and the provision of microcredit.
secondly, there was a need to increase transparency in quality improvement in line with the international system for the quality of education and to take concrete measures.
Based on the results of the work, concrete proposals were made to increase the effectiveness of Kazakhstan's participation in integration associations.
he noted that Germany has gone through a difficult historical path, and today it is one of the highly developed states, and Kazakhstan highly appreciates its contribution to the security and stability of the region.
freight turnover increased by 3.2%.
The issue of picking is currently under consideration.
growth was 1.6% in food and other non-metallic products, 1.2% in rubber plastic products, 16.1% in leather and related products, 20.3% in food products, 1.7% in the chemical industry.
It is a great achievement that our specialists work at Russian military points and know all the information. it is really important our experts to have an access to control points .
Bauyrzhan baybek said that it is necessary to install video cameras in order to know that the snow was cleaned in a timely manner.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, in connection with the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, a competition by decision of the Council of Defense Ministers of the CIS countries will be held from August 17 to 20, 2015.
this project will be collectivized and merged by the Kazakh society. national plan - " 100 concrete steps " will contribute to the mobilization and consolidation of kazakh society .
The European Union is the country's largest trade and investment partner.
the innovation included in the rules of acceptance was important and essential.
The parties drew attention to the importance of the issues proposed for discussion during the forum.
it is aimed at implementing the direction of the "unity and unity" plan of the nation.
we have different fields of activity, but we have never forgotten our parents.
repair work on Kazakhstan's main transmission line is being completed, "he said.
If you ask the situation, it will be "good weather," he replied.
this is not the first agreement between the financial support fund for agriculture and the UN.
they are dominated by the number of people with disabilities who face life difficulties without recognizing and overcoming difficulties.
first we witness skirmishes, then prolonged conflicts. i strongly believe that the osce can play a greater role in resolving crisis situations .
During the meeting, the head of state noted that both countries have common historical and cultural ties, and also play an important role not only in their region, but also in the international arena.
this event is around one sport, and the Olympiad includes various sports.
The exhibition will last until the end of November.
citizens of states that are the owners of documents recognized by the Republic of Kazakhstan within 15 days after crossing the border will not have any restrictions on visa-free travel to Kazakhstan and departure to the country, no matter how many times they are, "the deputy minister said.
who wrote the words - zhumeken najimedenov, Nursultan Nazarbayev, songwriter of kaldayaks
problems with investors. there is an issue on zhilstroisberbank 's depositors who save money to get credit for an apartment .
the study of new computer technologies, the exchange of specialists in the field of combating cybercrime and drug trafficking became an important topic of discussion.
At the same time, according to him, the country managed to completely build a gas transportation system to the east.
herd management, improvement and enhancement of animal genetic potential.
the new criminal legislation had eased the punitive nature of sanctions and, in most cases, imposed penalties other than deprivation of liberty.
During the conversation, it was noted that Vietnam is very popular as a new direction among Kazakhstanis.
he noted that the priority of agriculture is the processing of agricultural products.
To date, agricultural producers of the Kostanay region have acquired 45.3 thousand hectares of land.
As noted, as tax customs benefits for automakers, VAT is exempt for imported parts. in particular , automakers have concluded an agreement on exemption from vat on imported materials .
this satisfies the needs not only of Kazakhstan but also of neighbouring States.
Thus, it will increase every year and, as time goes, it will be available to the neighbor of model universities, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
Karaganda first demonstrated the dishes of the Bronze Age of the 20th century found in the Eurasian valley. for the first time karaganda demonstrates a unique bronze age pieces found on the territory of the great steppe .
Institutional and legislative frameworks are in place to ensure the rights and interests of children.
According to the chairman of the meeting, the revitalization of the region's economy through the silk road stimulates the development of 60 countries.
At the same time, as the Vice Minister noted, the priority areas of production are included in the industrialization map.
Following the meeting, the leadership of the road administrations gave a satisfactory assessment of preparations for winter time.
depends on the import of the state, imports are many times higher than exports.
in particular, good opportunities were noted for establishing mutually beneficial ties in the areas of mutual export-import of agricultural products, as well as the production of seeds, breeding and veterinary science.
We are confident that the medical teams sitting on these new cars will provide high-quality and prompt medical care to patients, "said K. Bozumbayev, head of the region.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, today's situation awaits long-term measures from enterprises and the government.
I want to thank you as a mother who again achieved the most expensive thing in life - happiness in raising her child, "the letter says.
for residents of the village of Koktal, Astana, a special team of specialists was thrown out, which provides advice to the population for early detection of risk factors for socially relevant diseases and conducts further dispensary observation.
During the event, special consent was given to the new adviser-coach of the national biathlon team of the Republic of Kazakhstan Valery Polkhovsky.
in the final part, the four best teams will play on the principle of semifinals/finals.
By the way, the positive experience of the Turkish Academy of Justice will be used at the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan.
With the help of knowledge, it is possible to solve environmental problems with the creation of new sources of energy.
as world practice shows, a state cannot live without it, then it will be independent and not express unity.
In previous years, 13,981 projects worth 928 billion tenge were financed at the expense of state support in the republic.	39.4 % of the funds ( 78.69 billion tenge ) were directed to the food industry , 19.2 % ( 38.37 billion tenge ) - the non-metallic mineral production , 18.1 % ( 36.18 billion tenge ) - metallurgy and machine building .	0,70
in the context of integration processes, we need leading international experience.
this is in line with the priorities of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
the proposed models have a number of advantages over parts. the proposed model has several advantages .
they will also monitor the observance of sanitary cleanliness in markets and in places of nutrition of the population.
Thanks to this exhibition, we should proudly show our famous history to the general public and with a confident view of the future, "said the director of the national museum Darkhan Mynbai.
At the same time, the Minister noted that in order to further develop integration in the field of water transport, the member states of the organization need to make proposals in the field of harmonization of legislation in the field of ship safety, technical regulation, insurance and licensing.
we believe that this is a temporary change.
During the visit of N.Nazarbayev to Mexico in the fall of this year, taking into account the information on the accession of Kazakhstan, he proposed to sign a convention on tax exemption and an agreement on mutual investment, the statement said.
According to Deputy Mayor of Almaty Yerlan Aukenov, the similarity of the economy of Almaty and South Kazakhstan region lies in consumer demand, entrepreneurial activity and infrastructure.
According to the results of the work, out of 8605 citizens who applied, 5242 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, out of 1832 people, applications were accepted to change the details, 1,531 villagers filed documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits, "the report said.
As noted by the Maymagambetov, for the development of a new constitution, the full potential of domestic legal science was used, all specialists in the public sphere were involved.
civil servants must undergo advanced training once every three years.	however , the public employees will be retrained .	0,70
at the same time, the Secretary of State noted that the BCP is considered as the leading international agency for the protection and protection of the rights of refugees, preserving steam values ​ ​ and goals at the global, regional and national levels.	g.abdykalikova commended the unhcr as the lead international agency for upholding the values and goals of the united nations at the global , regional and national levels in the area of observance and protection of the rights of refugees .	0,70
The goal of the program is to create competitive, export-oriented production of the commodity sector through the formation of regional and world-class companies.	evaluating the progress of 2015 year , we have decided to concentrate on the three manufacturing industries : food processing , mechanical engineering and building materials ,  he said .
In December this year, Kazakhstan will become the 162nd full-fledged member of the World Trade Organization.
Our women's organization is a product of the recent history of Kazakhstan, coinciding with the creation of a joint with a young independent state.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also instructed to pay special attention to ensuring law and order in the city, taking into account the growth of migration scale.
We, like other major market players, conduct an examination of everything that is happening in our country, participate in the program for the development of enterprise support. like all major market participants , we analyze everything happenning in the country .
Micronesia's interest in cooperation with other Central Asian States.
Explanations and explanations were also given to the employees of the regional employment department and social programs, the Kazalinsky district employment center, and the youth public association Zhas Orda.
May the feast of the sacred oraz-site further strengthen mutual understanding and friendship in our society! "- said in a congratulation.
So, in the indicator "international trade" Kazakhstan improved its position to 63 positions and immediately from 185th to 122nd place.
the development of our auto industry should create a national brand, "he said.
although the current season was calm, it cannot be ruled out that there is such a problem.
a portal is a virtual platform where a person and an entrepreneur who has prepared it can find each other. portal - a virtual marketplace where developers and entrepreneurs can find each other .
this competition was a great opportunity to demonstrate our abilities for the profession and love.
The draft agreement is expected to be agreed by 1 December 2015.
Nazarbayev intellectual schools are a platform for practice, we select children motivated by school, prone to the natural and mathematical direction. nazarbayev intellectual school is an experimental platform .
It is planned to bring the number of countries participating in the exhibition to 100 by June next year, "said Volossertales.
In 2015, the general plan for fluorographic survey of the city's population increased by 9.5%.
current legislation does not allow the sale of housing without a special permit. the current legislation does not allow to carry out routinely unlicensed sale of property .
completing the shots, the ship moves to the finish line.
How do I use the drawing to determine the diameter of this water tank?
The new contractual and commercial management system is positive.
The interlocutors expressed confidence that the upcoming events will be successfully held and will contribute to the deepening of mutually beneficial cooperation and friendship between the two countries.
As noted in the Committee on Judicial Reform, reducing the burden of state courts regulating the legislative and arbitration sphere will provide alternative types of dispute resolution in general.
we must do it with honor.
the conversation was initiated by the German side.
Recall that China became the 39th country to confirm its participation in EXPO 2017.
Currently, a working group on the formation of a public service has been established under the national commission.
got acquainted with the work of production facilities operating in Kazakhstan in the field of light industry.
the draft code and the bill "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan to improve civil procedure legislation," as amended by the Senate, were returned to the meeting.
The creation of an inter-parliamentary commission not only develops cooperation, but also attracts deputies of the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan to meetings.
The successful implementation of this project will not only become convenient for passengers, but will also have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the region.
this type of pension savings is annually indexed and paid for life, but not inherited.
in general, e. idriss. During the talks, the parties analyzed in detail the current issues of Kazakh-American cooperation, outlined concrete steps to further expand the strategic partnership in bilateral and multilateral formats within the framework of the implementation of the agreements of the two heads of state.
It is expected that more than 100 states, more than 10 international authoritative organizations and leading companies in the field of innovative technologies will take part in the exhibition.
In the future, reports were compiled on work during the spring floods, a report was made by the deputy head of the Karaganda region, colonel mk.
According to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Vietnam, the Vietnamese side attaches great importance to cooperation with Kazakhstan, and will also send a business delegation to participate in the upcoming meeting of the intergovernmental commission.
The race participants covered a distance of 15 kilometers by bicycle and covered 5 kilometers on foot.
this day will remain in the history of the university and with the first graduates will be evaluated the level of training of the university.
a. Dzhaksybekov introduced the new deputy chairman of the board Marlen Zhakedzhanov to the company's staff.
when alienating property, special conditions are provided for the buyer, which include compliance with the specialization of facilities and activities, preservation of employees' jobs.
As a member of the council added, in total in history there were 532 constitutions, of which only 97 are marked by unchanged principles.
It is noted that compared to the first half of last year, this figure increased by more than 80%.
It should be noted that the commission to determine the laureate of the national competition "Mereili Rects" chaired by Secretary of State Abdykalikov.
the Norwegian guest was especially interested in the reform regarding the qualitative implementation of economic programs and the formation of a professional state apparatus aimed at providing public services.
In addition, he introduced the participants to the innovations in the bill "On Education," which regulates a number of issues of dual education.
to do this, our teachers and teachers must meet our requirements, they must be trained according to our requirements.	for this we need to ensure that our teachers and teachers conform to the requirements that they provide appropriate education were themselves brought up an example and our young people to exams and tests do not buy , to graduates who come to get a diploma , they did not bring fake certificates that they allegedly somewhere employed .	0,70
Including, 10,000,000 tenge was awarded for the main prize, and for the first 9 finishing Tula - the welterweight prize.	the tournament will be held on september 6 , 2015 in kabanbai batyr village of tselinagradsky district , akmola region .	0,70
the picture reflects the results of scientific research of Kazakh scientists who worked abroad, as well as international experts and historians.	the film depicts the results of scientific research of kazakh scientists , who worked abroad , and international experts and historians .	0,70
today all conditions are being created for the maximum improvement of our position.
during the inspection, 2 rope carcasses and a 16-calibrator gun were identified and seized.
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens on subsequent trips of mobilization groups.
currently they are successfully implemented in cooperation with the national companies Kazakhstan Temir Zholy and Kazatomprom.
It is worth noting that this bill was developed as part of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025, 13 steps of the head of state "Plan of the Nation - 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms."
As Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted, Almat-hook filed applications for guaranteeing the holding of games.
The purpose of the bill is to exercise the constitutional right of each person to receive information and disseminate it by an authorized legal method.
According to the president of the station-service kairat turlykhanov, the railway stations of the capital, Almaty-1, Almaty-2 will be modernized.
fest praised the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to organize a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, noting that the development of this interreligious dialogue meets the needs of the international community and meets the interests of the Maltese order, and also expressed hope for a meeting with the head of Kazakhstan during the international humanitarian summit in Istanbul in May 2016.
we are experiencing a historic lower level in all price areas. the prices of main export products from kazakhstan have significantly declined since 2014 .
The aim of the development of these colleges is, first of all, to modernize the content of knowledge by strengthening the material and technical base, increasing the professional competence of engineering and pedagogical workers, and updating curricula that meet world standards.
It should be noted that the 3rd meeting of the Interstate Environmental Council of the CIS member states is being held in Russia.
It is noted that India and Armenia occupy fourth and fifth places.
In particular, he will get acquainted with the development of rural tourism in the Zyryanovsky and Katon-pine regions, will visit a birch mound and a coral reserve.
it is necessary to be very careful in conditions of self-sacrifice of children. children 's suicide statistics should be treated carefully , it is publicly available .
has been proved to exist in outer space, except in human space. we do not see them , but when they pass through the human body , enter the human eye , they repel from the eyeground .
According to the head of state, only state and public structures ready for change will succeed.
in the near future, the draft program will be sent to the governments of countries within the eurozone.
under individual financing conditions, new buses should be convenient for people with disabilities.
Currently, customers have received more than 22 thousand calls, more than 2 thousand of which were heard again.
Heads of companies successfully operating in Kazakhstan were represented as speakers of the Canadian side.
In turn, Vladimir Putin noted the importance of the format of the meeting of the heads of regions of Kazakhstan and Russia.
they throw the application in court and wait for the judge to withdraw it.
According to him, the understanding of the participation of ethnic groups in the reforms indicates its active involvement.
in addition, free trade, policy easing can promote competition, which is the main goal of WTO.
over these 5 years, the number of participants in the fight increased 5 times.
I also want to thank you for your contribution to the release of my book in Russian.
We also set ourselves the goal of supporting young talents.
and then the akimat staff came and said that on your instructions new houses will be built for us, and we were very happy, "the authors write.
Considering that e-justice means a shift away from paper-based documents and the formation of electronic cases and archives in the courts, the Supreme Court will continue the process of optimizing and automating information interaction between courts and state bodies.
the international championship this year was held in the Brazilian São Paulo.
Following the three-day meeting, the parties expressed readiness for cooperation in the field of health.
To date, 2 projects have been launched, 420 jobs have been created.
This seminar will allow the state bodies of the country to adapt to the current standards and principles of eidu, "said the vice-rector of the academy. Yesimov.
they spend a year away from home and relatives, study military affairs, master military equipment and weapons.
also the UN Secretary General thanked the President of the Senate. for warm congratulations on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the UN, as well as for speeches and publications in Kazakh and foreign publications in support of the organization.
According to the results of 2014, 27.3% of cases were positively resolved. as for the positive solutions , 27.3 % of the issues have been resolved positively .
three children from this family went the way of their parents, that is, they chose the scene.
A feature of the fund is that it is a large organization that helps single youth and children. " sos children 's villages kazakhstan " have a positive assessment and receives support .
An inclusive word cannot be adopted unilaterally.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the national bank should take measures to restore Kazakhstan's confidence in tenge and continue work on de-dollarization of the economy.
funded projects to open bakeries and small greenhouses in the Karakiyan district of Mangistau region.
we fulfill the wishes of the head of state N. Nazarbayev, every year 5,000 children come to the capital, which includes three new schools.
we are pleased to see the fruits of your efforts to harmonize interreligious and interethnic relations.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also wished the President of China the successful holding of the Winter Olympic Games, and the friendly Chinese people prosperity and prosperity.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, 13 heat supply facilities are being reconstructed, which will be completed before the start of the heating season.
the main requirements for the organization of such a system are the technical capabilities of the airport, the exchange of information between state authorities and air carriers.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the collapse and conflicts of civilizations have intensified on an inter-ethnic, intercultural, interreligious basis.
At the end of the meeting, the parties noted the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, which is fully consistent with the spirit of strategic partnership.
classes were held for five days at the 255th interspecific training ground of the Central Military District of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation in the city of shubarkol.
The company is constantly trying to increase the level of Kazakh content as part of the work to form a stable business among its goods and services.
Abta systems planned for installation and currently operating have a centralized data storage system, as well as combined with a "single automated information and analytical system" of the judiciary and an online service "court cabinet."
The Development Fund guarantees a beginner young entrepreneur up to 85% of the loan amount.
the project is an example of an integrated model of support for entrepreneurial initiative, microcredit organizations are the main financial infrastructure for enterprise development.
workers.
During the first five-year period of the state industrialization program, 68 projects worth 274 billion tenge were opened in the region, more than 5.5 thousand jobs were created.
also during the board, attention was paid to improving educational work, increasing the personnel capacity of internal affairs bodies, ensuring strict order among personnel, as well as strengthening the fight against corruption.
at any moment we are the pillar of the state, the protection of our children.
Monitoring the commission and evaluating competitiveness provide accurate prices for agricultural products and foodstuffs. the monitoring and analysis of competitiveness conducted by commission will form a clear idea of the agricultural and food products prices under the eaeu .
The parties also exchanged views on the future of Kazakh-American cooperation with the current state of affairs.
the first Kazakh cultural center in South America.
today we are discussing the results of the work dedicated to the celebration of the anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	this conference has given an impetus to the development of science and the history of kazakhstan  l.bobrov noted .
the first problem was solved by organizing a call center.
So, on May 29, 2015, the heads of government of the EAEU countries signed an agreement on the creation of the Vietnamese free trade zone.
The press conference will be attended by the chief specialist of the committee for the protection of children's rights and the director of the Assistance temporary residence center.
In my previous visit, I recalled the firm line of the capital in which I wanted to make a work of two states that connected elements of air.
besides our country, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan are permanent participants in the Almaty process.
the Prosecutor General of the Russian Federation Yuri seagull and the President of the International Association of Prosecutors Gerhard Yaros spoke at the opening ceremony of the meeting.
At the meeting, it was decided to assign Kyrgyzstan the flag of the CIS presidency next year, "S. Lebedev said.
for example, we recently learned that in the Italian archive there is about the original of the work "codex cumanicus," written during the Kypchak period, and brought to Kazakhstan its electronic version.
awarded diplomas and prizes.
A memorandum on inter-parliamentary cooperation, which will be implemented during this visit, will reflect our bilateral partnership and clear cooperation.
there was also a conversation on the most important issues on the international agenda.
the university's predecessors will go after you for a new life.	but the  firstborns " has a great honor to be in the forefront of its historical list .
Kazakhstan strongly condemns all manifestations of terrorism and extremism.
It is worth noting that to date 600 non-governmental organizations are registered in the West Kazakhstan region.
everyone can find their new index by entering an address on the website.
It is worth noting that before the republican tournament in all regions of the country, qualifying stages were held, the winners of which specially arrived in the capital.
As the Ukrainian President noted, the commitment of Kazakhstan to the fundamental principles of international law, respectful attitude to the sovereignty and stability of the territory within the framework of internationally recognized borders is of great importance for Ukrainians.
Participants in the competition needed to demonstrate engineering knowledge and shooting skills of small arms samples, endurance in overcoming the obstacle course with suspended combat equipment, skill in controlling the cobra armored vehicle, "the statement said.
there are plants for the processing of red brain roots, launched last year in the bare and shiel areas.
a. During the event, Jaksybekov separately discussed security issues at exhibition sites and in the city.
the composition of participants meets international standards, the requirements for each nomination are strong.	traditional music and traditional turkish dress pleased the audience brightness , beauty and variety .	0,70
After the discussion of the agreement, the participants agreed on work on its further aspects.	after reviewing , the participants of the meeting agreed on the main aspects of the further work .	0,70
the fight against doping in the Olympic movements remains one of the most important areas in the sports movement.
During the session, MPs heard reports from all five committees of the assembly and adopted eight resolutions on relevant areas of the alliance.
the instrumentalist noted that "Astana Opera" received an impressive impression from the entertainment of its building and interesting concert programs on its stage.
Among the guests of the exhibition were representatives of the country's intelligentsia, the author of the coat of arms of Kazakhstan, the Malibek gendarbek.
According to opera spectators of the capital, the starting theater group in two years significantly increased the level of cultural life of the capital, which allowed you to get acquainted with productions that previously could be seen only abroad.
unfortunately, nature does not allow us to live calmly, according to UN data.
including in Aktobe, West Kazakhstan and Kyzylorda regions - 100%, akmole, atyrau, Zhambyl, Karaganda, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan regions and cities of the capital and Almaty - more than 95%.
Last year, winemakers of this village received 2890 tons of products from 234 hectares, this year they doubled and amounted to 5148 tons.
if we are one, then everything will work out.
This measure, in turn, can at a certain level affect the stay of young specialists in the field, "the minister said.
the positions of the two countries on many regional and international issues are similar.
The head of state noted that the constant contacts of the heads of the legislative bodies of Kazakhstan and China will make it possible to form an effective legal platform for the implementation of the main areas of interstate cooperation.
you have a rich history.
Kenesary cave in our region is a place for the development of real tourism. kenesary cave , located in ' borovoye ' resort is a place that should be developed for tourists .
It is noted that the pilot project was implemented in Akmola district.
Natalia Kalashnikova, Director of the Department of Public Consent, noted that this political science complex is a new innovative impulse in the field of training methods.
Recall that Nazarbayev University was opened in 2010 at the initiative of the head of state.
also in the first reading will consider changes and additions to the legislation on tax and customs administration.
The main themes of the conference were public sector reform, ethics, culture and ethics of the public service, leadership and management in the public sector.
The centre will have a special legal regime, which may have its own legislation.
In addition, members of the government discussed a set of measures to prevent an increase in prices for socially significant food products.
It is worth noting that in the country there is no enterprise for the production of lime of the first grade.
It is clear that such a goal cannot be achieved in a year or two.	the head of  samruk-kazyna " jsc has said that the transformation is a very deep process .
this gives rise to the desire of our entrepreneurs to get powerful devices that produce high-quality products.
In conclusion, K. Massimov warmly received and thanked the Tajik side and the CIS Executive Committee for the good organization of the event.
we will consider ways in which the production of engineering products can be brought not only to high-quality indicators, but also to their export and sale, "said M. Pishchbaev.
After taking the oath, Aoska servicemen will defend the honor of the national team on the world sports scene and increase the image of army sports.
According to the minister, the department plans to maximize the potential of civil servants.
N.Nazarbayev was the first in the world to play a decisive role in the formation of a nuclear-weapon-free space in Central Asia by closing the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
A. Nazaryan recalled that Kazakhstan is a state developing with a new dynamic, in friendly relations with neighboring countries, which has significant influence in the geopolitical map of the film adaptation.
422 thousand square meters of housing will be introduced with these funds, thus the plan for 2015 will be implemented with an excess of 6%.
If any agreements are adopted now, then there will be no requirements for coverage, "explained J. Ushikova.
In the first half of 2015, the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 36.3 billion tenge with an increase of 5.6%.
In addition, recently, sports and tourism education has been gaining good momentum and 241,852 children have been reached in this direction.
for example, in cases outside the judicial system, the Scdya should not use its competence to decide its benefit.
Diversification of private property.
this tightens the requirements for energy efficiency of buildings.
As the speaker of the Senate noted, Kazakhstan is connected with the goals of the pair.
Having completed the distance of 27.47 seconds, the balandin spread across the serial kabe siladi swimmer and the Italian andrea toniato.
The honor of the armed forces of Kazakhstan will be represented by about 60 aoska athletes.
The meeting also discussed the training of highly qualified women specialists in the framework of the implementation of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol - way to the future."
a number of tests were carried out in space, work was carried out to control the spacecraft system.
not only in the areas of health and education, but also in all public bodies. we need to ensure a zero tolerance threshold for corrupt practices not only in the areas of health and education , but also in government in general .
Kazakh fighters regularly participate in the competition, demonstrate a high level of individual training, and also regularly take prizes.
Lithuanian colleagues paid special attention to investment projects presented by the Kazakh delegation, as well as the great opportunities that the Kazakh country provides to foreign investors.
So, according to public utilities, residents are most often interested in plans for urban planning, connecting remote areas of the capital to heat and water supply, electrification and gasification of areas allocated for individual housing construction.
for the first time in Kazakhstan there will be an open championship in powerlifting among citizens with damage to musculoskeletal devices.
mechanical engineering is a high-tech industry.
The proposal of the head of state to reduce the level of the court from 5 to 3. the correct position of the president is to reduce the number of court instance from five to three .
This year this project will be launched, 5 permanent jobs will be created.
In general, construction work in this form is intensive, even progress is being made in the schedule.
everything went at a good level, with a good organization, no violations were recorded.
fish fillet, ice cream fish, fish flour.
In the third course, the articles and provisions of the commission of European regulations applied in connection with the extension of the actions of airports, control mechanisms and certificates were studied.
energy service companies believe that they will modernize, install, and receive their income from efficient energy resources. energy service companies set and upgrade the system and have profit from the energy savings .
Currently, contracts have been concluded with contractors on contract objects, construction and installation work is underway. currently , all the facilities are being constructed .
in addition, it does not rot and is chemically good.
for all applications for the appointment of pensions and benefits, electronic models of cases have been developed and sent to the authorized body for consideration.
Tugzhanov familiarized foreign guests with the history of creation, constitutional status of kha, about the upcoming tasks and ongoing work to strengthen inter-ethnic peace and social harmony; the work of elected deputies, international cooperation.
accordingly, the first place was taken by the Russian team, and China took the top three.
It should be noted that the activity of terrorist groups has increased, emphasizing the situation in the world. describing the situation in the world , it is necessary to note the intensification of terrorist groups which activities undermine the prevailing world order .
I propose to elect a member of the Standing Committee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on constitutional legislation, the judicial system and law enforcement agencies during the vote for the Senate resolution, "the Speaker of the Senate said.
To date, 118 km of roads of the Semipalatinsk section have been overhauled.
The business trip of the Secretary General of the International Exhibition Bureau will last from October 5 to 7.
his name is Bayseitova. with the opening of the Astana Opera Theater and Theater, "he said.
a high level of production equipment, a positive assessment of the innovative step in the organization of labor.
In particular, the draft law consistently establishes the main areas of state support for small business, the agro-industrial complex and non-agricultural types of entrepreneurial activity in rural areas, investment activities, entrepreneurship carried out by domestic producers, the minister said.
According to him, today's founders of the holding took part in the creation of the university.
During the meeting, entrepreneurs not only received answers to their questions, but also received specific consultations from representatives of the competent authorities.
For Kazakhstan, participation in the PSB should form the most open report on the implementation of the strategic tasks facing the country. participation in the eiti is important for more transparent , accountable and responsible economy and , therefore , for the implementation of strategic goals .
The Russian leader also expressed confidence that the Shu will support the organization's development strategy until 2025, "the statement said.
the conversation was initiated by the Serbian side.
the document was developed in order to implement the five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state. the bill : first - specifies the number and the scope of the participants of public-private partnership .
Including the producer of strong-willed tastambeks, the singer Ivan Breyus.
The organizers also held a flash mob.
Despite the frosts outside, our hearts are filled with warmth, and we felt it today.
Within the framework of the project, buildings, other necessary infrastructure were built, technological equipment, equipment and biological assets for the production of dry powder from mares' fresh milk were purchased.
The sides exchanged views on a wide range of issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Bulgaria.
because eaeo develops new standards for the quality of trade goods.
The event was attended by Vice Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yesengaz Imangaliyev, representatives of business structures and partners of Russia, ceramics, Great Britain, Canada.
As part of the jury of the final of the turkvizyon-2015 national selection, the head of the culture department of the city of Astana bulat mazhagulov, singer, winner of the international turkvizyon-2014 turkvizyon song contest Zhanar dugalova, dusen dream soloist, composer renat gaisin, poet Kalkaman sarin, white general producer of the Khabar Agency ar Rat Rinat duimanate.
On September 30, 2015, the World Economic Forum (wef) published an annual report on global competitiveness for 2015-2016.
Today, the goal of creating a global educational training center has been fulfilled in the capital or country.
As the head of Kyrgyzstan noted, there are many ways to deepen cooperation, information technologies are very relevant.
In the ordabasa area, the majilisman got acquainted with the construction of a school for 600 places in the shubarsu of the rural district.
According to the results of 6 months of 2015, the production volume of railway equipment amounted to 20.8 billion tenge, which amounted to 43.3%, while the production of locomotives was not carried out for the specified period, only 45 units of passenger cars and 100 units of freight cars were compiled. the volume of railway equipment production amounted to 20.8 billion tenge , and the volume index was only 43.3 % .
During the excursion, the head of the supreme judicial body of the Republic of Belarus got acquainted with modern information technologies introduced in the judicial proceedings of the city court.
Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin got acquainted with the progress of construction work in the regional center.
He held three meetings and in the final beat the Kyrgyz athlete with a score of 3:0.
the tournament was held at a high level.
often one employee is responsible for many services, "said M. Nteshov.
The purchase of caviar seeds, called the second generation, will not only make significant savings only on the supply of livestock and its transportation, but also reduce the delivery time, receive guarantees from a more adapted animal and its origin and compatriots - the owner of a Kazakh reproductive farm.
Bilateral trade turnover for January-August 2015 amounted to $210.7 million.
In addition, now the training is held in the military police department of the Almaty regional garrison.
By decree of the head of state, the Kelimbets were also dismissed from the post of chairman of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job.
in a year and a half he will work at iidmb facilities, including barracks.
10 acres of land belonging to each house are fortified with a fence and it is planned to build a palace on an area of ​ ​ 25 square meters.
he is an independent judge and cannot pay special attention to one of the parties, since the opposite party can submit an application, "explained A. Sarsenbayev.
first, the international community is working in concert to prevent circumstances conducive to terrorist activities. firstly , there is a consistency of approaches of the international community to prevent neutralization of conditions conducive to the emergence of terrorist threats .
The President of Kazakhstan emphasized that the republic reduces greenhouse gas emissions and participates in preserving the biological diversity of the planet.
According to the results of these negotiations, in order to support agriculture, Kazakhstan managed to maintain a price volume of 8.5% of the total value of agricultural products, "said Zh.Aitzhanov.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Israel dulat Kuanyshev, Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan David Luxembourg and representatives of the Jewish national foundation "keren kaemet le-israel" took part in the planting of trees.
today you go from Nazarbayev University and go into a big life. today , you travel to a great life .
at the same time go to a new order, a new mechanism.
45.8 per cent in urban areas and 54.2 per cent in rural areas.
Following the meeting, the parties signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation.
the operation is carried out by the head of the department of cardiovascular surgery of the mkp "City Hospital No. 2" e. Mukhametkaliev and the white neurosurgeon "National Center for Neurosurgery" together with the medet.
The head of state instructed to focus on providing settlements with blue fuel. the head of state instructed to pay more attention to the gasification of the villages .
the consumer should not be silent.
each consumer will "see" the returned amount in their utility payment receipt.
all this is being discussed.
at the same time, the rational geographical location of Kazakhstan among the Eurasian mainland makes it possible for representatives of Vietnamese business to use this advantage for cooperation and trading in the markets of the eurozone countries.
In this regard, the German side announced that in October this year a visit of the delegation to Kazakhstan is planned, and expressed its intention to develop a memorandum of cooperation with the Kazakhstan Union of Machine Builders.
Design and estimate documentation for 404 km is being developed in Pavlodaro-Semipalatinsk and Kalabatovo-Rostov parts.
many products are stored in warehouses, since the company works daily, we rent a special warehouse.
festive concerts with the participation of stars of Kazakhstan and foreign pop, which have become traditional at the venues of both cities, will end with a festive celebration.
Today, postgraduate education occupies a special place in the training of military personnel.
there is no disagreement between our countries either politically or economically.
According to him, the planning was carried out within the framework of severe restrictions and budget efficiency according to the system of economic policy measures of the head of state.
in the Almaty direction, in the Kapchagai-Taldykorgan part and on the bypass road to Sarkan, in 6 sections with a total length of 157 kilometers.
but I really liked national houses, well protected from the enemies of the Chechen and Georgian peoples, "the blogger wrote on his Facebook page.
According to him, it is necessary to study the culture and literature of the Kazakh people in greater depth.
its main goal is to reduce administrative pressure on business by abolishing duplicate and redundant permits, transferring permits to the notification procedure and optimizing permitting procedures.
this measure will promote the theme of the Expo 2017 exhibition, based on the energy of the future.
It should be noted that within the framework of the seminar, the national team of experts on reforming the sphere of higher education of Kazakhstan will hold master classes on the implementation of the personnel strategy of universities and national, sectoral limits of qualifications.
we have a pumping concept.
As noted in the report, at present internal decoration is being carried out, windows are installed, water supply facilities of the ice rink with an area of ​ ​ 2 thousand square meters are being checked.
The purpose of the forum is to discuss issues of strengthening and development of Kazakhstan's identity and unity, increasing the competitiveness of the domestic garden, popularizing the Kazakh model of social harmony and national unity of N. Nazarbayev.
I am sure that all these achievements are inextricably linked with your huge efforts to strengthen the foundations of Kazakhstan's statehood.	in his message to president of uzbekistan islam karimov stressed :  in my opinion , all these achievements are inextricably linked with your great efforts to strengthen the foundations of kazakhstan 's statehood .
and also with. During the meeting, the clerk noted that 5 institutional reforms of the President of Kazakhstan, 100 concrete steps of its implementation, aroused the greatest interest among European partners.
today, citizens aged 6 to 60 can play this game.
In the second five-year plan of industrialization, training is a top priority. one of the main priorities of the second five-year plan of industrialization is training .
During the meeting, Abdikalikova presented information on the implementation of the program, discussed the adaptation and development of students' creative potential.
The development and implementation of innovations in various areas is a strategic direction for the development of Kazakhstan.	the main prize of the conference - $ 25000 - will be received by a winning team of the startup battle .	0,71
you are trying to unite all the people and create a government of national unity.	you strive to bring together the entire nation and establish the government of national unity .	0,71
a feature of this congress was that Kazakhstan became the first state in the world to establish interfaith harmony and unity.	the great achievement was the fact that in the eyes of the whole world , kazakhstan became the country with the real social and inter-religious harmony and unity .	0,71
The main priority in the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, which was determined by the head of state Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, is to improve the provision of primary health care to the population.
Recall that the "dry port" connects Kazakhstan with China and opens up new opportunities for access to Europe.
founded the Kazakh national written literature.
where will this goal be implemented when it is implemented in Kazakhstan?
The country that built schools and hospitals predicted the next 10 years.
He noted that food, pharmaceutical products and light industry products are popular in foreign markets.
Also, during the implementation of border cities, we sign such agreements as the Assembly of Peoples of the Orenburg Region, the Aktobe Regional Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and Zko. however , developing the border towns , we always conclude similar agreements , for example , the assembly of the peoples of orenburg region with the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan of aktobe region , west kazakhstan .
The working visit of the Deputy Prime Minister ended with a meeting with indigenous society, where B. Saparbayev spoke about the social reforms being carried out in the country and answered questions from the townspeople.
Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev and representatives of government agencies took part in the meeting.
according to the expert, if a state has a share of services in exports, it is recognized as a successful exporting state.
thanks to the most convenient and fast-moving infrastructure connecting the Lianyungang port with the central and western parts of China, as well as taking into account Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization, it is planned to increase the port's throughput and expand the activities of the Kazakh-Chinese international company Lianyungan City, "the statement said.
the economy is effective only in the functioning of the justice system, based on the foundations of the Constitution, "said A. Solovieva.
The draft national project was developed in order to increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstani non-governmental organizations in the socio-economic modernization of Kazakhstani society and improve the quality of life of citizens, improve the experience of interaction between the state and the state.
production growth in the manufacturing industry - metallurgical industry, production of wood and dust products, except furniture; articles made of straw and material for weaving.
I want to thank you on behalf of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan. i want to thank you on behalf of the supreme commander of the armed forces of kazakhstan .
several steps on standard priorities are enshrined in our ministry.
the project was approved by the city authorities.
During the meeting, the sides exchanged views on topical issues of Kazakh-Singapore cooperation.
According to him, it is necessary to note everything that has been submitted by the Supreme Court, that all decisions approved by the national commission contribute to the positive development of work on the protection of constitutional rights.
representatives of the Turkic Council countries will further consider the program and the financial side of replacing secondary school and university students.
In 2015, 1 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of communications.
modern facilities meet the requirements of comfort and safety, that is, they are covered with artificial lawn, illuminated, all necessary for sports are created.
in addition, the company ranked the necessary segments and created its trade policy in target regions and industries.
so we need to move carefully.
Recall that the competitions were organized at the initiative of the President of the Kazakh Geographical Society and the President of the Kazakhstan Biker Association, the world famous furniture biker Dmitry Petrukhin by the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, the aim of the competition is to increase the prestige of working professions among young people.
And this is thanks to feedback from the consumer, "he said.
to date, 12,360 hectares of rice have been densified, 6391 hectares have been densified.
The Mothers Council also intends to teach women the basics of mediation and negotiation to prevent family conflicts.
Therefore, we plan to reduce the level of management from 9 to 4.
According to him, special attention will be paid to the leadership qualities of dog leaders.
The parties consider the Saryarkaavroprom automobile assembly plant in Kostanay as the place of production of these cars.
Warm congratulations were also sent by the former President of Poland A. Vasnevsky, noting that the coincidence of the birthday and the day of the capital of the head of state symbolizes the inextricable connection of the new history and successes of Kazakhstan with the personality of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
for these projects there is a category of specific investors under negotiation.
According to the report, the commission under the local executive bodies of Astana on legalization of property in the country received 2,649 applications in the amount of 44,360,479 thousand tenge.
According to the chairman of the committee, the peculiarity of the innovation is that a public examination is carried out by activated representatives.
Also in the third direction, it is planned to increase the mobilization of labor resources by facilitating the voluntary resettlement of citizens from depressed regions with high socio-economic potential and economic growth centers.
According to the bank's report, in 2015 Kazakhstan takes 41st place out of 189 countries in the ranking "doing business 2016."
In our opinion, this measure will also contribute to increasing the level of production placement in the EAEU member states, "said EEC Minister of Customs Cooperation V. Goshin.
During the meeting, which lasted about two hours, the young people received comprehensive answers to their questions and expressed gratitude to the people's representatives for meaningful, warm communication.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
the results of the meeting of prosecutors general are clear and clear, because this is a meeting after the summit in Ufa. the results of the meeting are obvious .
indeed, a demographic centre could be opened within the statistical committee.
In the current year, a number of legislative acts are envisaged in the country. nowadays new laws that deal with the interaction of non-governmental sector and the government are adopted .
also chairman of Baiterek quaesta capital (mining and metallurgical industry), linde engineering ltd (production of equipment for the chemical industry), textima export import gmbh bernd weidlich (textile industry), re-gmbh (mining and metallurgical equipment), rheinmetall eastern markets gmbh held talks with the heads of German companies such as defense.
organizes an international exhibition bureau (mcb).
The head of state noted that the main task of mankind in the 21st century should be to implement a strategy that will save the world from the threat of war and eliminate its causes.
legal and law enforcement officials protect the rights of low-income citizens and entrepreneurs.
The event was attended by about 330 specialists.
Artificial greens are laid at the stadium.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of bilateral relations.
In addition, today a memorandum was signed between the Governor's Office of Pavlodar and Zzhbi Iron Stone Pavlodar LLP.
Expo's general contractors linked the forward-looking business partnership with potential suppliers with memorandums of cooperation and specific terms.
money is collected only where there is confidence, income.
these airports can become a powerful hub for passenger and air travel in central Asia.
in addition, kdb plays an important role in the development of the transport system, building the transit potential of the country, opening new markets for domestic goods.
the main purpose of this training is to undergo a special program by sergeants aimed at obtaining additional knowledge, skill and skills, as well as mastering scientific and educational disciplines, studying, sections of technology and new technologies.
According to bayterek ubx, at the moment, contracts have been concluded for the construction and purchase of 665 thousand square meters or 11638 apartments.
in total exports of goods, the share of energy resources prevails and this is the main foreign exchange source of states.
Kyrgyz clothing, dairy products and vegetables are imported.
The aim and objectives of the competition are to promote the state language policy among representatives of other nationalities, to evaluate the qualifications and experience of specialists in office management, to encourage the best clerks in the state language, organizations, employees, moral and material character.
many factors are taken into account.
the aircraft was created on the basis of a Canadian aircraft.
"We have always been able to preserve the information union of the common Eurasian region."
our country is hosting a new generation of qualified professionals. "
the first would be to do nothing, which, in turn, would lead to a decrease in production and the smell of our foreign exchange reserves.
According to the deputy head of the health department Sergey Popov, at the first stage of resettlement in the regions, the privatization of state medical organizations and the expansion of the guaranteed amount of free medical care are supported.
the second part of the series of drawings "seven charters" is devoted to a collection of Kazakh laws of traditional ethics.
In the future, the airport will receive tourists not only from the country, but also from abroad.
Based on the results, proposals were made to involve women in public works in the country.
The package includes medical assistance provided by the ambulance service, air ambulance, socially significant diseases, as well as in emergency cases, for preventive vaccinations.
the delegation also visited the pharmaceutical laboratory of Harfordshire University, which is engaged in the creation and use of new drugs.
regulation of legal relations related to the organization, holding of sports and mass, cultural and entertainment and other events.
Representatives of the secretariat, the Ministry of Justice of Russia, the Ministry of Justice, the Committee of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan also made presentations.
Of the 300 working here, more than 90% are local residents.
As the head of the samruk treasury explained, transformation is a very deep process.
It is worth noting that the words of gratitude to the Kazakh side were heard in the composition of all CIS delegations.
funds raised contributed to the provision of assistance to akmola and perinatal centers of Kyzylorda region.
As a result, you will be able to invest useful investments in the long-term future, as for a short time, "said M. Pshembayev.
Note that a little earlier, K. Tokaev sent a telegram of condolence to the chairman of the Senate of the French Republic.
in Kazakhstan, representatives of various ethnic groups and religions demonstrate an example of friendship and harmony, creation and unity.
today's meeting is a vivid manifestation of the desire of both sides to further deepen cooperation in all directions and in the future.
this is the best indicator in the history of Kazakhstan.
the Vietnamese athlete showed 177 kg.
The amount of payments and customs duties depends on the customs value of the goods, the nomenclature of the commodity code and the amount of benefits granted.
The proposals of the Finnish company on the use of waste are of great importance for our field.
wind and solar power are also widely used.
from which city will the project begin and name everyone who participates in it?
In order to understand the work of mobile essays, journalists were invited to take an "e-government" application on a mobile phone.
special units of the types of armed forces of Great Britain and foreign countries take part in the exercises.
however, what happens in neighboring countries also affects us.
During the action, traffic police officers stopped cars and carried out explanatory work with road users on compliance with traffic rules, safe speed, overtaking rules, overtaking.
To ensure that the judicial practice in the application of legislation in that country is uniform.
The international exhibition Expo 2015 in Milan was attended by about 21 million people.
At the fair, 28 companies presented more than 100 vacancies, most of the jobs - from the oil and gas industry.
According to the mayor of the city, it is necessary to intensify work with the involvement of additional equipment and complete it during working hours.
in patropavl B. Saparbayev took part in a conference dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. in petropavlovsk b.saparbayev has taken part in the conference devoted to the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
The rights and agreements on the procedure for the state registration of civil aircraft of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the types of documents giving the right to an unmanned vehicle are registered by civil aviation.
In particular, in 2008, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2014, the national team of the institute repeatedly became champions at the Spartakiad of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
increased capacity space of the airport.
he invited young people to take an active part in organizing and holding major sporting events.
The event will be attended by active youth of the capital.
It is noted that in the first reading in the first reading the bill "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on self-regulation" was approved.
From your point of view, has Kazakhstan succeeded in applying Bulgaria's experience in joining the WTO?
in this regard, a conditional state of emergency was introduced, an operational command of the "south-east" was created to conduct a joint anti-terrorist operation in order to strengthen the state border, isolate areas of illegal formation and neutralize it.
Recall that at the first stage our tankers took first place, together with our team in second place is Russia.
in relation to Iran, a decision was made to create such a group, "he said.
the battle on the Caspian Sea continues.
The convention provides for types of legal assistance and grounds for their refusal.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, most of the applicants are registered in Kostanay region and Astana (14 applications each), 11 applications from Almaty, 10 from Aktobe and Kyzylorda regions were accepted.
The festival will be attended by the first graduates of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Physics and Mathematics of Aktobe.
on my own behalf and on behalf of the whole team thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the creation of a cardiac surgery center.
At the meeting of the commission, the parties discussed the implementation of the road map for the development of the city of Baikonur and the settlements of Hakai, Toretam, the activation of the social sphere, and the joint use of the Baikonur complex.
Work in this part is planned to begin in 2016, "said M. Pshembayev.
Despite the decline in production in the mining industry, khlemi metallurgical ore grew by 4.4%.
The work was attended by employees of the Department of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan and youth of the city.
It is noted that as part of a working trip to Moscow, the head of Kazkosmos talgat Musabayev took part in a solemn meeting dedicated to the 40th anniversary of the docking of the Soviet Soyuz-19 spacecraft and the American Apollo spacecraft.
Also, the law on "housing communication" is supplemented by protocol permits for changes in residential buildings in which people with disabilities live and are unsuitable for living.
the design and technical bureau of the enterprise together with the experimental testing workshop began to create non-standard devices "electric locomotive plant."
experts call the transition of weak people to the process of entrepreneurship in the last decade a "silent revolution."
The President of Kazakhstan also received congratulations from the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, who noted that the multifaceted creative activity of Nursultan Nazarbayev, as a prominent statesman of Kazakhstan, gave him worldwide respect.
I think that the Japanese audience is very interested in the theme of this exhibition, "said A. Ergazieva.
The award ceremony will be held for the first time in the capital of Kazakhstan outside Russia.
Press conference of the Committee for the Development of Languages ​ ​ and Socio-Political Work of the Republic of Kazakhstan acting Director of the Shayakhmetov Republican Coordination and Methodological Center for Languages, head of the Department of Linguistic Research and Terminology of the Sayah Itegulova and head of the educational, methodological and organizational department of the Yessbosynov lova Lisa.
with this in mind, the Supreme Court in the first half of the year organized a large-scale study of judicial practice in all categories of cases.
The main goal of the project is the production of electricity in environmentally friendly ways, providing the region with sustainable lighting.
In addition, according to the head of the enterprise, at the start, more favorable financing conditions were also offered with the national holding, and then other financial institutions refused to support the new production or put forward such requirements that they could not raise it.
In addition, as the deputy of the Mazhilis mukhtar Tinikeev noted, the organizers are responsible for preliminary informing local executive bodies about how many people will take part in the event, their planned number.
In addition, the head of state drew the attention of the meeting participants to the need to form a single system of financial support for regional cooperation.
military citizens also visited the library, for whom a festive event dedicated to Capital Day was organized.
threats such as desertification and land degradation, deterioration of air quality in some localities, inefficient use of water, the spread of harmful substances into the air from industry and the irregular location of landfills, the accumulation of household waste, require concrete measures by the State and business.
Honorary consul, Christian mikkel valor, a well-known businessman, will promote Kazakhstani interest in this important zone of Norway, which is the center of industrial, agricultural, high-tech production and health care and education.
To date, the branch has a terminal for accepting payments from the savings bank of Russia, work is underway to connect the white base of kazpost to accept payments from the population.
in his opinion, the basis of religion should be united, and representatives of traditional religions should continue to stick together.
in general, the Kazakh-civil identity is somewhat formed. we can say that the kazakh-civic identity is formed largely .
To date, garbage containers have been installed around the beach, the territory of the sand complex has been expanded.
the jury focused on the professionalism of the participants, personal qualities and manner, and the effectiveness of pedagogical activities.
there was a proposal to head the Biathlon Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which did not pass the last reporting and election conference. on the last report and election conference , i received an offer to head the kazakhstan federation of biathlon .
The Deputy Prime Minister also got acquainted with the activities of social enterprises, examined the water treatment plant, the Aigolek kindergarten and the maternity hospital, where the presentation of the comprehensive plan for the socio-economic development of the city of Zhanaozen and the implementation of the single-industry development program took place.
It is worth noting that in May of this year, as part of a business trip of the chairman of the board of Samruk Kazyna JSC, zhuizak shukeev decided to build a hydrometallurgical plant for deep processing of lead and zinc at the enterprise.
we are engaged not only in construction, but also in personnel issues, "the Governor of the region said.
Kazakh content consists of two categories, these are construction materials and labor.
the enterprise is located in the industrial zone of the district.
As akim of Kazalinsky district Najmadin Shamurats noted, the program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan occupies a special place in the development of entrepreneurship.
"I am endlessly grateful to the government of Kazakhstan for placing the bank and the leadership of its people in reducing world nuclear risks," the American politician added.
Two weeks ago, on behalf of the head of State, we held a traditional meeting of law enforcement agencies of the Prosecutor General's Office. two weeks ago at the request of the head of state we held a traditional council of law enforcement bodies of the prosecutor general 's office , where we discussed the problems related to this phenomenon and spoke about the possible way out of the situation and the measures that can be taken in the first place , " kravchenko has said .
our leader is of great importance in uniting the people in order to avoid interethnic disputes.
first of all, the shortage of personnel of scientific and technical workers at enterprises.
In addition, according to the Minister of Education and Science, in the framework of this plan, together with local executive bodies, the Ministry is taking a range of measures related to security and includes safe directions and awareness-raising.
according to him, the constitutional legal constitution will be ensured.
The Mayor also noted the need to strengthen the work on steam processing, haymaking and harvesting.
Thus, the meeting participants will discuss such issues as the fight against the consequences that give rise to extraterrestrial sentiments, threats from radical groups, the dissemination of extremistic ideas through the Internet, and accompanying citizens to participate in wars abroad.
In this regard, a special meeting was held by the presidential administration, the Prosecutor General's Office and the Government, following which a plan was developed to counter violent actions against children in 2015-2017.
in the program of the two-day visit of the Kazakh delegation, in addition to participating in the business council, it is planned to hold bilateral meetings and negotiations with the heads of large German concerns, engineering companies and institutions.
The bill provides for amendments to the law of the National Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other payments to the budget."
all these measures are carried out in accordance with the requirements of full meritocracy applied in the public service.
The Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, in turn, provides for the general championship.
he noted that the sec-SIM card will be for sale in mid-August.
The event was attended by members of the public association of Kazakh women of Mongolia, representatives of the media.
In this regard M. Pishchbaev noted that Kazakhstanis need to be provided with high-quality sports and quarterly rental.
during the meeting in the White House zhoshybayev and with. Wallander noted the traditional atmosphere of trust and the high level of strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
revealed 2 facts of specialized cultivation of karasora in sparsely populated and sairam districts of South Kazakhstan region. in south kazakhstan region in tolebi , sairam district revealed two facts of cultivation of hemp , in the village of sary-agash -fakt opium poppy cultivation .
7 wells were drilled, of which 4 were test-industrial.
the bank reduces the risk of nuclear technology proliferation and increases global international security.	so , the leu bank will allow these countries to have a guarantee against sudden disruptions of nuclear fuel supply .	0,72
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of demonstrating the culture, history and traditions of Kazakhstan at the exhibition.	nursultan nazarbayev noted the importance of disclosing kazakhstani culture , history and customs at the exhibition .	0,72
the number of customers is growing every day, "says the coordinator of the Ermakhanbetov center.
Negotiations are underway to ratify the agreement on trade and economic cooperation with the People's Republic of China, "B.Sagintayev stressed.
museum funds should also register in a single base and work to attract it-technologies and innovations.
because our country can go through the port of Lianyungang to the east coast of China and Batumi and to the Georgian coast of the Black Sea, "he said.
from this we see that problems between different sects and religions arise as a result of certain opinions and ideas, policies.
The press conference was attended by the Director of the Department of Culture and Art of Kazakhstan, Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Aktota Raimkulova, Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Arman Asenov and Artistic Director of the State Academic Kazakh Musical Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev.
the first report on the problems of the development of a peaceful atom and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons was made by Andrei Baklitsky, director of the Russia and Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons program.
the state allocates funds for the purchase of industrial products according to a specific list.
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate indicates that Kazakhs are a country growing from history. "
This year marks the 25th anniversary of the signing of the German Unification Treaty.
members of the constitutional council and former members of the constitutional council take part in it.
There is a need to modernize water supply and sanitation systems in these cities.
we consider the development of our culture important.
270 million tenge was allocated for the construction of a new kindergarten this year.
Also, the head of the region got acquainted with the work of a number of peasant farms.
Sewing shops and computer courses for women have also been opened.
In his congratulations A.Merkel noted that Kazakhstan and Germany will unite close partnership in various spheres.
In addition, the director of the production of hosiery products of the Esko partnership noted that Andrei shmarin at the first meeting of the union is not terrible for the light industry industry.
the festival began with a thematic exhibition organized by ethnocultural associations.
Currently, reformatting is underway in the field of geology and subsoil. currently there are certain stages of reform in the sphere of geology and mineral resources .
Preferential tariff conditions for the transportation of grain, ferrous metals, ferroalloys and aluminum, supplied in transit from Kazakhstan to Iran, from Iran to the port of Bender Abbas, were also agreed.
then the expedition met with the local population, explaining the purpose and tasks of this trip.
this unprecedented unity must be a constant part of all of us.
in this regard, the Chairman of the House of Representatives of the Belarusian Parliament spoke about the Belarusian reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness of local self-government and representative and executive bodies in the field.
now two training courses for pschologists of newly appointed battalions have been held at the Academy of Public Administration.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that diamond is not only a large city of the country, but also a locomotive of the economy and a scientific and educational center, the management of which requires experienced and creative personnel.
Karim Massimov stressed that Almaty will be a catalyst for planned infrastructure projects regardless of the Winter Olympic Games.
According to him, religious unity is much stronger than a global village, where we are haunted by economics and politics.
In January-February 2017, more than 2 thousand athletes will take part in Almaty.
According to the Governor's Office, sports complexes are equipped with all the necessary equipment.
It is worth noting that entrepreneurship and the development of women are supported in the region.
was very interesting and fun.
the team will present these productions at the end of the theater season and on the eve of the celebration of Capital Day.
soloists - Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan Baghdat Abilkhanov and Aisulu Baisenova.
Kazakhstan will take part in three different competitions within this large-scale event.
the purpose of the loan is to restructure investment loans, replenish refunds.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the seminar was attended by specialists in the field of customs service from Azerbaijan, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and the Republic of Uzbekistan, representatives of national companies and state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that 51.3 thousand small and medium-sized businesses are registered in the region.
on the part of the Ministry of Culture and Sports I congratulate you on Sports Day. on behalf of the ministry of culture and sports i cordially congratulate you on the upcoming day of the sport !
we are happy that everyone gathered, exchanged views, we will see what samples work for who, and share our experience, "he added.
In conclusion, Mr. Sidorsky noted that the implementation of an agreed policy in the agro-industrial complex will contribute to the positioning of the EAEU countries as large suppliers of food to the world market.
Since the beginning of the year, 3 thousand 994 jobs have been created.
sports events were held by the taekwondo federation of Kokshetau and Akmola region wtf.
The press conference was attended by the Chairman of the State Revenue Committee of Kazakhstan per km daulet ergozhin, Deputy Chairman of the State Revenue Committee of Kazakhstan Zhandik Zhanarashev and Argyn Kypshakov, Head of the Customs Control Department of the Customs Control Department of the State Revenue Fund of Kazakhstan Yerzhan abrahmanov.
Since next year, we have been holding republican and regional youth forums. these will be special forums where youth policy will be discussed , " said the vice minister .
The technical procedure is issued and extends to oil, which is in circulation on the territory of the union countries.
vi The World Summer Army Games will end on October 12 in South Korean disappointment.
I am sure that our interaction will be beneficial to both parties and will contribute to the realization of our common goals, "said the managing director of Baiterek Holding, speaking at a meeting of the Askar Dozdiyarov Business Council.
I want to note that in recent years, significant measures have been taken in the country to form and further develop the business climate.
for all applications for the appointment of pensions and benefits, electronic models of cases have been developed and sent to the authorized body for consideration.	electronic layouts cases have been generated for all applications for appointment of pensions and benefits that were submitted for consideration to the authorized body .	0,72
Kazakhstani entrepreneurs respond negatively.	kazakh businessmen answer negative .	0,72
During the meeting, ways to strengthen cooperation in the trade, economic, coal, transport, logistics and agro-industrial complexes were discussed.	during the talks the presidents also highlighted the need for further consolidation in combating terrorism , drug trafficking .	0,72
According to N. Nazarbayev, after today's graduates, new graduates fly every year, and they open a historical list, a happy moment.	according to n.nazarbayev , there will be other graduates .	0,72
The head of state visited the diplomatic mission of France in our country and left an entry in the book of condolences.	as akorda website reports , the head of state expressed condolences on behalf of the people of kazakhstan .	0,72
Europe cannot live without Asia.	europe cannot live without asia .	0,72
In accordance with the agenda of the session, members of the Kazakh delegation introduced the committee's experts with information on the main changes in the socio-economic and socio-political spheres of Kazakhstan, and also answered a number of questions.	during the event , vice-minister of education and science of kazakhstan yessengazy imangaliev presented a report on activities , policy on the rights of the child , legislative innovations of the kazakhstan government for the last four years .	0,72
Chairman of the Board of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan Bolat Zhamishev and member of the Board Abay Sarkulov will take part in the press conference.	the press conference will be attended by chairman of the board of the development bank of kazakhstan bolat zhamishev and managing director - member of the board abai sarkulov .	0,72
the document is also aimed at implementing the State program for further modernization of the law enforcement system for 2014-2020 and the concept of personnel policy of law enforcement agencies.	the document is also aimed at implementation of the state program of further modernization of the judicial system for 2014-2020 and the concept of human resources policy of law enforcement .	0,72
in addition, accreditation provides the center's specialists with the following opportunities: training, exchange of experience; mastering of new, modern rules for managing the progress of work performed within the framework of tests; participation in professional testing programs, external inspections and inspections to maintain a quality system at a high level.	in addition , the specialists are provided with an opportunity to : learn and share experiences ; develop new modern principles of workflow management ; to participate in testing programs , external audits and inspections .	0,72
the fight against terrorism.	in the future there will be some improvements .	0,72
The purpose of this event is to increase public awareness of the spread of acute intestinal infections, measures to prevent infectious infections, maintain personal and public hygiene, teach children and adolescents to observe personal hygiene, increase the responsibility of the population, employers, workers and parents for health care and strengthening.	the purpose of this event is to raise public awareness of the acute enteric infections , ways of its distribution , measures to prevent it , respecting personal and public hygiene ; increasing the responsibility of the population , employers , workers , parents , for the preservation and promotion of health .	0,72
Further, B.Saparbayev got acquainted with the facilities under construction by representatives of other regions of the country.	b.saparbayev visited facilities that are being built or reconstructed in other regions of the country .	0,72
inspection of satellite navigation equipment, as the head of the Kazakh space travel center uk said in an interview with Kommersant, is a measurement of errors in navigation and frequency-time parameters, determining the technical capabilities of marine, land, aviation, space, geodesic and other special applications
According to him, the marathorium is not unlimited in Kazakhstan, therefore, a systematic mechanism is needed to protect the rights of entrepreneurs.
Innovative technology transfer projects.
in the period 2014 under review. in comparison with the corresponding period, the number of migrants inside the country increased by 37.3% to 191,542 people.
According to him, time is provided for eliminating violations by users of natural wealth.
Graduates with 123 points of Rauan Muratbek, as well as Asylbekova and Pavel Mukhin showed a high result in the region.
today there are stages when the customer prepares and prepares technical specifications to a special supplier. today there is a problem when a customer makes to fit the technical specification for a particular vendor .
recalculation is carried out annually according to the results of the heating season.	cost allocation is performed each year on the basis of the heating season .	0,72
a major participant in the domestic auto industry became the founder of the Union of Enterprises of the Automotive Industry of Kazakhstan.	the largest participant of the domestic autoindustry founded the union of the enterprises of automobile branch of kazakhstan kazavtoprom .	0,72
these are those professionals who were not in history, "he said.
the purpose of his activity is the implementation of language policy in the republic through theoretical and applied problems of linguistics.
According to Viktor Radchenko, head of the regional department of energy and housing and communal services, only last year 19 houses were repaired in Kokshetau for a total of 397 million tenge.
Nevertheless, the primary members of our government should be ready for this system of legislation and work with the population, "said Oleg Chernyshov.
All measures will be aimed at increasing labor productivity, competitiveness of products and accessibility for the population at prices, "S. Shauenova explained.
I think that we will be able to promote this law with the support of the committee for the protection of children's rights of the Ministry of Education and Science.
According to him, the state should provide citizens with minimum standards, especially in the context of the global crisis, in such areas as education, health care, social security, employment, access to cultural and sports values ​ ​ depending on the capabilities of the economy and budget.
work in two shifts.
Under the 1st direction of the ZhKZ 2020 program, 285 young people received microcredit.
in this regard, the chairman of the acf. Baybek focused on the role and significance of the city branch.
therefore, it is necessary to increase volumes.
depression destroys any society.
The event was attended by the staff of the committees of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of development institutions.
As soon as he had an order to simplify measures to legalize property, it was necessary to increase the duration of this event, "said the deputy minister.
innovative technologies and various projects for the agro-industrial sector of Kazakhstan were also presented.
along with people at these training camps, young dogs took part in the activities of the emergency department of the East Kazakhstan region as "cadets."
constantly improve, get the best international experience, introduce to Kazakhstan, attract experienced employees - the main task. the development of housing construction savings system in kazakhstan is important for the holding .
The Prime Minister of India drew attention to the dynamic development of Kazakhstan in the current difficult geopolitical situation, noting that this is a manifestation of a constructive management strategy and a long-term plan.
Recall that since January 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan has been acting as a consultative and advisory body "Dialogue Platform on Human Standards."
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens on subsequent trips of mobilization groups.
In total, in the first half of 2015, 20 new projects were launched as part of the industrialization map alone and about 2 thousand permanent jobs were created
horizontal and vertical transport lines provide good growth opportunities.
It is expected that the participants of the meeting will discuss the main aspects of joint counter-terrorism, ensuring security and law and order, and cooperation between the security agencies of the Commonwealth states.
In order to get acquainted with the necessary volumes of work and services for the construction of EXPO-2017 facilities, the conditions for the further supply of construction materials, the meeting was attended by the heads of more than 40 enterprises of the region engaged in the construction industry, light industry and other industries.
Residents of East Kazakhstan region reportedly turned to family specialists and doctors.
At the opening ceremony of the competition, a traditional procession of participating teams took place, which included a concert program of local creative groups.
It is worth noting that the consul general held a meeting with students of the state university named after I. Zhansugurov.
a distinctive feature of this raid tractor from the previous model is the use of modern mine control tools, such as new hydroacoustic mine search stations, tele-controlled and autonomous underwater vehicles.
The development of this industry in the region includes projects of a cascade ski resort and the reconstruction of the center of historical and visiting tourism in Turkestan.
that is, the requirements are different in each state.
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan is interested in the Singapore experience in the field of large-scale propaganda of anti-corruption values.
in addition, one of the objectives of the project is to improve the environmental control system, provide the population with the necessary amount of drinking water, and launch some innovative projects.
This was announced by the Assistant Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan to the representatives of the Kazakh delegation.
representatives of foreign media asked questions related to the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and Almaty.
As a result of the call center, it is planned to improve the quality of medical services and eliminate the problems of sequencing in the city's polyclinics.
currently the interests of Kazakhstan are represented in almost all regions of Germany.
according to oral legend, the grandson of Khan Abylai, the son of the Kassym Sultan, from childhood learned to ride horses and take an accurate aim at the target.
That is, here we see a decrease in investment in the manufacturing industry, an increase in investment in the manufacturing industry.
ancient people knew medicine well.
According to him, today 5 enterprises have been transformed, another 4 are in the transition stage.
this enterprise is equipped with production areas, technological tools, adjacent railway access sections, that is, suitable for the creation of a test center for railway vehicles.
the bill proposes to report annually to the population not only by akims, but also by heads of state bodies, ministers and rectors of universities. the bill proposes that in addition to the governors , the heads of government agencies , ministers and rectors of the national universities will account to population .
To do this, you do not need to rent a separate room, fill it with the necessary furniture, equipment, furniture, "the report said.
and in order to get rid of it, the main thing is to correctly look at crops like a child, bite drugs on time, and not harm.
The reason for the new opening was the presentation of the first edition of the literary almanac "Kazakhstan - Russia."
conductor-director - Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the first relates to personnel matters.
you inspire millions of fans and world athletes with your applications.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the delegation will be headed by the head of the region, archimedes of muhambets.
the event began with a morning workout.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
to stop this action, religious leaders must act together. "
today there are more than one and a half thousand ethnic conflicts and contradictions in the world. today the world has more than hundred ethno-political zones of tension and conflicts .
To date, the national company has signed 11 agreements on participation in Astana Expo-2017, 51 states, 11 international organizations confirmed their participation and 25 section commissioners were appointed.
Also, according to him, a special deposit system will be introduced to protect our tourists.
currently, the patient's condition is good.
In this regard, the head of state noted that the opening of a plant for the assembly of toyota machines is of particular importance in Kostanay.
trade, supported by the state.
and so - the general attitude of each author to the President of Kazakhstan with a very warm, desirable and emotional color can be traced in the essays.
Representatives of agrarian enterprises of the regions thanked the head of state for his constant concern about agricultural issues and noted the timely adoption of measures for the development of the industry.
today you promised great responsibility and honesty, honor and courage to serve your native countries.
according to preliminary indicators, the area of ​ ​ crops is 9-10 centners per hectare.
Among the participants in the air map are four graduates of this military university.
it was decided to hold the next meeting of the interstate council on the territory of the Russian Federation.
bills are sent for consideration by the chamber.
In addition, 6 objects (2 objects, 4 kindergartens) will be commissioned by the end of this year.
In addition, the house-building plant Zzhbi Temirtaspavlodar LLP was commissioned.
By the end of 2015, it is planned to complete the construction of an access road in Aea.
since the opening of the club, the UN Deputy Secretary General, ministers and ambassadors of foreign countries have publicly spoken. since the opening of the club , we have become participants of public statements of un deputy secretary general , ministers and ambassadors .
in extracurricular time, circles are organized.
to do this, you need an electronic digital signature, which can be installed in the offices of the operator Altel.
This year, in the center of the university system, the question arose about graduates of the 21st century: basic qualifications and modern labor markets. this year , the focus of high school graduates is in the issue of the xxi century - the key competencies and the modern labor market .
in the new academic year, students of the Karaganda region will receive from the fund of school libraries textbooks of the English language of the 4th, 5th, 6th and 11th grades, 3rd grade, textbooks of informatics of the 7th grade, reprinted textbooks and educational and methodological complexes.
the increased threat required the search for new ways to combat it.
at the same time, China will finance the construction and modernization of intra-Kazakhstan roads.
the Secretary-General spoke about the theme of global energy and environmental strategic development in the 21st century and the green bridge partnership program.
the best we can do is to prevent modern threats from breaking the hopes of mankind. the best thing we can do - to save hope of humanity despite modern threats and challenges .
in addition, he urged not to allow any situations that negatively affect the students themselves, as well as the image of Kazakhstan.
the design was developed by artist Rakhmedin.
in general, during the reporting period in the republic there was a decrease in the number of TK of a natural and man-made nature by 13.1%, and victims - by 5.6%.
we are interested in helping and working with our partners in Kazakhstan.	in addition , he noted that there are some difficulties , despite the marked 21.7 million dollars .	0,72
Another construction site located on Almaty Street, a 280-seat kindergarten is being built.	there is another construction site on almaty street - 280-seat kindergarten .	0,72
in this regard, it is very interesting to solve inter-ethnic problems through kha.	the eurasian union is working on this issue - relationships with other unions and states .	0,72
As noted in the report, there are no problems with a shortage of materials and specialists.	according to the report , there are no problems to get materials and employees .	0,72
for these funds, the entrepreneur, who opened three kindergartens for 360, 320, 180 places, contributes to solving the problem of shortage of places in kindergarten, contributes to the employment of young specialists and the implementation of the Chick program.
Thanks to the UN, Kazakhstan received the status of a sovereign country, received recognition throughout the world.
The third news considered by law is the transfer of law enforcement personnel to the State Pension Institute. on january 1 , 2016 pension provision of all law enforcement officers will be funded by the state budget .
this service can receive information about the legality of business verification from the competent authorities through the website of the Prosecutor General's Office or through mobile communications, "he said.
coach of a young athlete.
ESCAP is interested in economic integration cooperation of Central Asian and Eurasian regions.
The guest of honor, who also drew attention to EXPO-2017, noted that this is a unique opportunity to demonstrate the potential of our country, in which the Kyrgyz country will take an active part.
The meeting was attended by a number of educational institutions in the region, including the Medical University and Karaganda State Technical University.	majilisman visited a number of educational institutions , including the medical university , karaganda state technical university .	0,72
In five years, we have increased production by 3 times.	for five years we have increased our production capacity more than tripled .	0,72
image of a star, shanyrak, nest, winged rose in legends, as well as the inscription "Kazakhstan" - golden.
The permanent collegiate body headed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan determines the strategy for the development of the center, adopts its acts in the form of resolutions.
Following the meeting of the KHA Council, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to further strengthen unity and harmony in society.
According to him, the Almaty office will provide assistance in accordance with international requirements.
As the president said, it is important that the collective decision of the council can lead to the completion of each event of such qualities as cruelty, hatred, unfair treatment of believers towards neighbors.
the bill will be submitted to the plenary session of the Senate.
in addition, remuneration will not be coordinated between employees who will be unprofitable when achieving the tasks of the organization's charter.
area 3076.0 square meters.
The level of competitions is very high.
During the seminar, participants will consider issues of improving results-based budget planning, its place in the state planning system, compatibility with strategic planning.
Mechanisms for the development of dairy direction in family farms of a collective type were also discussed.
Currently, many construction companies are thinking about the need to start building an apartment without demand.
In turn, participants and student communities were provided with detailed information about the wisdom, maturity and modesty of Kazakh steppe women.
In total, 16.6 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of measures for the development of single-industry towns this year, including 3.3 billion tenge for the development of SMEs, he added.
this is unstable development in different countries, illegal migration, climate change, air pollution and transboundary water sources.
At the end of the meeting, the Kazakh side informed Polish colleagues about the ongoing work on the preparation and holding of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana and invited employees of the Ministry and Polish carriers to take part in this event.
Majilismen also approved in the first reading the bill "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on precious metals and precious stones."
after corresponding changes in information systems.
Currently, about a thousand Kazakhstanis work at three joint ventures for uranium mining and processing with the participation of maruba.
I think that we are correctly considering this very serious issue.
At the same time, the Vice Minister added that the World Bank has extensive experience in energy efficiency and there should be a successful partnership in this area in Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the creation of effective prevention mechanisms, predicting environmental risks, will minimize losses from technological and natural emergencies.
As follows from the message, the chamber's experts also noted the launch of a new project of an "operational expert" initiated by the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this event was the result of fruitful interaction.
we will vote for an early cessation of nuclear testing.	ye.idrissov said that kazakhstan intends to promote the idea of the nuclear test ban .	0,72
they also warned drivers of the need to comply with the speed limit, monitor the technical condition of their cars, not to use a mobile phone when driving vehicles and constantly wearing seat belts.	they also remind drivers about the need to observe speed limits , to monitor the technical condition of the car , do not use the phone while driving , and always wear a seat belt .	0,72
holding ratings show sovereign ratings.	the ratings reflect the sovereign ratings of the holding .	0,72
Now our goal is to maximize this experience for others, "he said.
also Nursultan Nazarbayev examined the shooting stage of series "a aza ate і" and has a talk with creative group.
In connection with the 70th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and the announcements of the fight against international terrorism, the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, it is planned to adopt an appeal.
in the capital, more than ninety thousand people are registered as beneficiaries.
Among the congratulators are heads of states, international organizations and companies, social activists and citizens of the country.
Today, negotiations are underway with the Chinese parties on the organization of the nomad express container service along the China-Kazakhstan-Azerbaijan-Turkey route (Istanbul).
It is worth noting that in the works of dulati there is a history of China, India, Afghanistan, Iraq.
This year it is planned to complete work for almost 500 km.
He noted that during the reform of the "rule of law," the President of Kazakhstan paid close attention to issues in need of modernization.
all this cannot but affect us.
Samruk-kazyna Real Estate Fund "gives white Kazakhstanis the opportunity to get housing and improve housing conditions.
the Kazakhs, who formed both a nation and a state, were able to instill in themselves representatives of other nationalities living in their territory.
Recall that the library named after the first President of Kazakhstan discussed issues of providing Kazakh schools with educational means.
with the support of KTZ, a ferry complex is being built on land in the direction of the formation of transport and logistics infrastructure. under the activities of kazakhstan temir zholy , the bodies launched the construction of the ferry complex in kuryk port .
the parties also expressed interest in the development of air transportation.
The program helps young people to form professionally and personally, stand firmly on their feet, gain experience in the leading organizations of the country.
In the 2nd quarter of 2015, the ratio between the maximum and minimum per capita nominal monetary incomes of the population by region amounted to 3.3 times.
Salman and Abdulaziz expressed confidence that relations between our Saudi countries, based on centuries-old friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation, will continue to serve the interests of the friendly peoples of Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.
33 applications for legalization of property in the amount of 956.3 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Next year it is planned to complete the construction of the road.
According to him, judges in the republic apply alternative types of punishment imposed on the pipe.
At the same time, as A. Orsariev noted, in general, 3,600 specialists are needed for these two branches of Pavlodar region, of which 380 specialists have engineering and technical education.
the development of sports is important not only for you and us, but also for the whole country. today , there are veterans of the sport , officials of the ministry and its subordinate organizations .
I believe that first of all the values ​ ​ of a particular religion are transitional, and eternal values ​ ​ came to us through religion.
As the Chairman of the Union of Artists of Kazakhstan baiturs zhayyrbekov noted, Kazakh artists were very interested in the creation of the Kazakh khanate.
As the head of state noted, the second astronaut took part in three space expeditions, which lasted a total of 341 days.
in addition, the liability for sexual offences against minors has been strengthened by law.
In addition, according to him, Kazakhstan is developing and interested in the modernization of the civil service, and also intends to move to the model of official growth.
for example, "veteran" and "barrier-free future."
One of the main projects of this year is the high-voltage system "ekibastuz-families-growth," the total construction range of which is 1,559 km, and in East Kazakhstan - 865 km.
According to him, the company was initially aimed not at importing construction materials from outside, but at producing them at home.
During the meeting, the Kazakh side proposed to coordinate the technological work of transport companies in order to conduct container trains along the route China - Azerbaijan - Georgia - Turkey.
Deputies of the Majilis of the parliament will take part in the press conference.
According to the press service of the capital's akimat, akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov and Olympic champion Alexander vinokurov take part in the sporting event.
thus, the number of court cases involving minors is decreasing.
The conference discusses the preservation of various aspects of the design and preservation of energy efficiency in the construction of residential buildings in Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to prepare the population in advance for the implementation of state affairs on constitutional grounds, "said A. Solovieva.
along the basins of the rivers Pyanj, Vakhsh, Zeravshan, Kafirnigan, Isfara and Isfana.
members of the board discussed the priority areas of the committee on emergency situations and the interaction of its territorial units with the internal affairs bodies.
16 teams are divided into four draw teams.
all conditions have been created on the left bank to spend an interesting time and relax. the left bank complex has all necessary conditions to have fun and relax .
The Board of Directors of the jewelry holding approved the procedure for organizing electronic water supply for the sale of university shares and is organized on the vep portal of the state property list in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, after the reconstruction of the international transport corridor "Western Europe-Western China," the road is gradually blocked, and obstacles are reduced, which, in turn, causes many to want to increase speed.
at the same time, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan together with the akimats of the border regions defined a register of facilities and places in respect of which it is necessary to abolish or suspend individual regime restrictions of tourist interest.
The assets of the National Fund amounted to 69.028 billion US dollars, recall that due to the allocation of funds from the National Fund as part of the road program, reserves decreased by 1.3%.
next year it is planned to introduce a 60-apartment residential building in the Titov microdistrict in March-April, a 100-apartment building before the end of the year.
According to the president of the capital, St. Petersburg force, emissions of harmful substances into the atmosphere are among the priorities of the airline.
At the opening of the seminar, the Director General of the National Security Council for Combating Terrorism Using Weapons of Mass Destruction, Laura Holgate, and the former head of the 12th Main Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, responsible for the security of the nuclear arsenal, retired Colonel General Yevgeny Maslin, spoke.
over the years of independence, we say that the middle class is a sign of stability, the middle category should be larger.
there, the soldiers of the two countries conducted a joint anti-terrorist operation to eliminate and eliminate conditional terrorists in the border region.
therefore, every day of medical service, every minute and even every second contributes to improving the quality of life of citizens.
the agricultural sector has not become a driver of the growth of the country's economy.
state symbols symbolize transparency, freedom, independence and consent of the policy pursued by the head of state.	during the action , the head of the region awarded the winners of the regional competition  patriot of the year . "
in addition, in the traditional message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, one fate," it was noted that the issue of protecting children is the main priority of national policy.
According to him, employment is a key factor in ensuring social stability.
fuel savings are 30% lower than short-range jets.
According to the press service of the EEC, the draft procedure was developed taking into account the regulatory documents in force in the European Union in this area.
The congratulation of the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin notes that Nursultan Nazarbayev enjoys great respect and authority not only in Kazakhstan, but also in the outside world.
Recently, women have given the greatest impetus in the field of small and medium-sized businesses. in recent years a significant effect in the sphere of small and medium-sized businesses is provided by women - entrepreneurs .
During the fourth session, the activities of the supreme state body were intense, within the framework of which three joint meetings of the chambers were held, 41 plenary meetings. the activities of the supreme representative body of the country during the fourth session were rich , versatile and productive .
The bill provides for the allocation of a guaranteed transfer in the amount of 2.3 trillion tenge annually.
the director of the film is the happiness of the Kairbeks, the executive producer of the project is Andrei Khazbulatov.
According to him, the state wants WTO accession, integration within the eurozone to help spread problems that entrepreneurs cannot solve on their own.
in our family six people, Rustam, heir, Muhammad and four sons.
candidates for the post of judge must be at least 30 years old. a proposal to raise the age limit of candidates for judges up to 30 years was supported .
The holiday will open a popular "procession of orchestras" for Almaty residents, which will be held from August 25 to 27 in the square in front of the Palace of the Republic.
the lack of mechanisms to protect the rights of entrepreneurs and their interests is one of the most urgent to date and needs to be addressed as soon as possible. the lack of support and protection of the rights and interests of entrepreneurs is the most vulnerable problem , which must be solved as soon as possible .
As for measures to support industrial enterprises, a clear plan has been formed. as for the specific measures to support the industry , we have developed a plan of action .
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the contribution of Norway as a donor to the project.
As the speaker noted, during the fourth session of the parliament of the fifth convocation, the country witnessed socio-political events and large-scale reforms.
having gained independence, we could not sacrifice anything.
we have pupils of correctional boarding schools and children with poor hearing on the site. we gathered children of the boarding school , including children with hearing impairments .
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Vatican mukhtar tleuber addressed the conference participants.
Adilbek Jaksybekov noted the importance of these projects for residents of the capital, the need for their full use in everyday life.
investors are guaranteed tax legislation.
Unlike Kazakhstan, in the Kyrgyz and Azerbaijani republics, etsk is provided for a fee.
students of Karaganda region got an opportunity to talk about their events related to EXPO.
conference participants concluded that it was necessary to develop proposals to preserve traditional values, strengthen the role and importance of interethnic harmony, interethnic and interfaith tolerance for further development.
acting director of the legal policy study center, developer of the law on access to information, member of the working group tatyana zinovich:
According to him, it is necessary to optimize some stages of these procedures.
therefore, we will support the two, "said the deputy of the Mukhtar Tinikees.
these projects will make a significant contribution to the implementation of public and sectoral programmes at their level.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, from June 2 to 5, the congress and congress will discuss the organization of therapeutic and cardiac activities and the use of new medical technologies in the treatment and diagnosis of therapeutic and cardiovascular diseases.
The purpose of this action is to draw public attention to issues of ecology and landscaping of the region.
we have received the degree of successor, thus Kazakhstan is implementing the norms of international openness.
Dear participants, I congratulate you on the opening of the III Forum of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan. our republic has chosen the way towards a sustainable and balanced economy with the high value production .
According to him, the Botais built semicircular houses, the depth of which was about one and a half meters.
A number of breastfeeding activities will be organized during the national week.
Limits for selected transactions subject to financial monitoring have also been raised.
the rights and obligations of individuals in the field of culture, physical culture, sports will be defined, prohibitions and restrictions on attending events will be expanded.
they are really competitive, all equipped with modern technologies.
the bottom of the pyramid is square with a wall length of 62 m.
In particular, akim drew attention to the fact that illegal trade and deterioration of travel conditions are underway there.
In this regard, the Chairman of the Senate called on British parliamentarians to visit Kazakhstan on a study visit.
According to the ambassador, the flight Astana-Tbilisi-capital became a great success before the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
It should be noted that in the region, according to the plan, heat boiler houses, water supply and sewerage networks are being repaired.
then they will be able to increase the volume of production and the volume of products sold. they will be able to produce and sell more , especially now when there are gaps in the international markets due to geopolitical challenges .
Speaking about work in this area, the Vice Minister of Agriculture Saparkhan Lobster noted that one of the ways to solve this problem is to maximize the use of the production potential of feed mills of the republic.
As part of the five institutional reforms of the National Plan, efforts have been made to modernize the national plan. the work on modernization of the existing national plan in the framework of the fourth direction of five institutional reforms within the national plan has been carried out .
product priority segments have also been approved - conditions have been created for the coverage of all cars in the general category according to the driver's information.
a. Ayymbetov met with students of Aktobe and Kyzylorda regions, participants of the seminar training, as well as students of capital schools and college students.
It should be noted that the revealed facts do not meet the veterinary and sanitary requirements of the Eurasian Economic Union.
my colleagues and I have the opportunity to have a personal meeting with you today. our cooperation is comprehensive .
participants are waiting to overcome water obstacles on boats, towing a vehicle as part of a team and shooting with an exchange.
our country has contributed to helping a country in crisis.
increasing the strip on the flood road increases the volume of passage at the border.
in many matters we have come to mutual understanding.
It was attended by a bricklayer from the company bi group.
The composition of the advisory committee was formed on the basis of proposals of the EAEU member states. the advisory committee was formed on the basis of proposals of member states of the eaeu .
The head of the economic research department of the Institute of Eurasian Integration Vladimir Telnov will take part in the press conference.
scientific reconstruction of a golden man and Scythian-Siberian gold products created in the ancient Egyptian style are the main exhibit of the museum.
the meeting will consider the issues of institutional reforms on the creation and legal support of a professional state apparatus, as well as study future research and development of Kazakh scientists aimed at the implementation of the National Plan.
in particular, the deputies will ratify the protocol on Kazakhstan's accession to the Marrakech agreement on the creation of the WTO and consider bills on amending and supplementing legislation in connection with accession to the WTO.
Particular attention was paid to the issues of price control in the field, preservation of jobs and timely payment of wages.
The participants of the event were presented the Kazakh-Canadian business guide on the business and investment climate in the country, developed by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Ottawa and published with the help of Canadian companies operating in Kazakhstan.
More than 50 parliamentarians from 20 participating countries follow these elections alone.
Nevertheless, the oil and gas industry is developing, there is no significant decrease in the production of the oil and gas industry in the country, "said the chairman of the board of the Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan.
Schedule each kilometre of road to be repaired per week.
Currently, veolia specialists have developed technical and economic documentation for the project, a number of options for its implementation have been considered.
Since 2007, more than 23 thousand projects of small and medium-sized businesses have been supported as part of state programs to support entrepreneurship. thanks to state support programs more than 23 thousand projects of smes have been implemented for 8 years .
Saudi Arabia is interested in participating in Expo 2017, because this is a significant event and the energy of the future, "said Tawfiq al-rabiah.
To date, the Chinese side is ready to provide Kazakhstan with 500 square meters.
You can purchase a maximum of four tickets per transaction.
the idea of ​ ​ this project (expedition of the country "great steppe") arose from this report.
in the Karaganda region there are 350 rural territories with an area of ​ ​ about 9 square kilometers, in which production and agricultural facilities are located, 327 thousand inhabitants live.
Noting the importance of the religious forum dedicated to the development of dialogue on peace and security issues, Tokayev drew attention to the need for qualitative implementation of the initiatives of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the world rating, we can be considered to be among the 50 developed countries of the world, "said M. Mukhanov.
currently, aerogeophysical studies have been carried out, work has been carried out on the preparation of a geological database, verification and reconnaissance search routes, and the creation of fundamental geochemical samples.
In this regard, every Kazakhstani can directly intervene in the implementation of his constitutional activities, "said B. Kayypov.
military personnel, in turn, need to repel a surprise attack, "the report said.
It includes a number of questions on the activities of the judicial system, including the staffing of the judiciary, the selection of candidates for judges and the process of their appointment to posts.
exit from what is happening in the world is possible only if we have a stable, strong country.
we are pleased to develop strong cooperation between Kazakhstan and the couple.
this is expo-2017.
twin city entrepreneurs who arrived at the center actively use the services of the CES.	in april , the psc directed a specialist to business service center under the branch office of the fund .	0,73
As a qualitative execution of the order of the head of state from next year, the salaries of civil servants will be paid depending on the factor-point scale. for high-quality execution of orders of the head of state next year the salaries of civil servants will be based on factor-point scale .
Recall that the Republican Council of Mothers of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was created in 2010.
The President instructed to increase the overall oil production rate in points 5-7%.
now diamonds occupy only 49.3% of the population of Kazakhstan.
roads are thousands of jobs, roads are the life and well-being of the people, "added a. Tuganova.
the introduction of vocational education, solving the problems of national schools, and improving the skills of teachers.
in order to become cadets of the country's military educational institutions, they must successfully pass five stages of testing.
your wise and visionary leadership in raising our relationship to the level of strategic partnership. your wise and visionary leadership made a huge contribution to our relations and the strategic partnership .
Thanks to its algorithm, wipon can determine the point of sale of alcoholic beverages that are not licensed and made from hand before the sale of the goods. the wipon has an algorithm , able to determine the sale points of alcoholic beverages without a license , duplicates and fakes .
the document is aimed at improving the state regulation of grant and scholarship issues of the educational process, as well as establishing a special taxation procedure and providing land to autonomous educational organizations.
Sh.Zuhurov thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his outstanding contribution to the establishment of peace and stability in the region and the promotion of globally significant initiatives.
To open enterprises in the chemical industry requires a large number of modern equipment and its parts. to create the chemical companies it 's often required to bring into the territory of kazakhstan expensive equipment and spare parts from other countries .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the sanctions against Russia did not bring significant results.
domestic scientific projects are supported from the beginning of the study to the entry into the market.
"There were many good projects, it was not easy for the international expert commission to choose 7 of 40 strong groups.
Also in 2015, 618 million tenge was allocated for the repair of 14 health facilities in the Atbasar, Borovsky, Zerendinsky, Sandyktau districts, Kokshetau and Stepnogorsk districts.
To date, more than 100 thousand people with intellectual disabilities live in Kazakhstan.
the industry produced products worth 311.8 billion tenge, compared to the same period last year - by 4.3%.
According to estimates, the total need for investments in modernization is 2 trillion tenge, "said the chairman of the committee.
a contest of heroic exploits made it possible to find and talk about the activities of military personnel called up to serve in their homeland on an equal footing with men on their shoulders.
Another way of financing is to create advertising for products abroad.
The remaining 13 state institutions will be checked from June 22 to 25 of this year.
As the leader of the nation noted, the history of our sacred land spans several millennia.
in addition, she, together with Yulya Rakhmanova, Svetlana Ivanchukova and anastasia tulapina, won another gold in the relay.
In addition, after the completion of the construction of a new furniture factory, fabric materials will be delivered to the site of the Expo 2017 exhibition.
Today, the plant is closely connected with the leading research institutes of Germany, Russia and Belarus for the development of new recipes.
the most important is the core of education extended to central children. the most important thing - the center is the core , the knowledge of which spreads to the children .
The transformation of central Asia into the most important link in the world communications system made it possible to build on the territory of our country a section of the Western Europe-Western China highway, of which about 3,000 kilometers, as well as 1000 kilometers of the China-Caspian Sea-Persian Gulf railway and 950 kilometers of the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway corridor.
the purpose of the program is to solve the socio-economic problems of the region, improve the infrastructure of rural areas.
advanced training consists of several stages.
the first council is to increase the share of funds allocated to education in the domestic gross product. the fact that we have allocated 3.6 - 3.8 % of gdp , maximum of 4.1 % in the best years .
construction of the second school continues.
through employment programs, we are allocated huge funds.	we offer him that job place of combiner after 6-8 month retraining course ,  n.altayev said .
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the expediency of moving to an updated educational process based on the experience of Nazarbayev intellectual schools in the field of secondary education.
now has its own website.
No one has yet explained why this phenomenon in the village of Kalachi. until now , no one has explained properly the cause of the phenomenon in kalachi village .
Following the negotiations, a number of documents on cooperation with German companies are expected to be signed.
there were many comments, proposals, all of them were taken into account by the members of the commission.
being a lifeguard is a lot of work.
all necessary items are ready for this.
According to him, the main goal of the festival is to unite representatives of various areas of art.
according to unofficial information, kenesar is considered the last khan of the Kazakh Khanate, "said the vice-rector for educational work of the kazmzu.
Also, according to the expert, the residents themselves are a factor of inter-ethnic harmony in the country.
therefore, the holiday plays a unifying role.
Tax incentives are also provided for legal entities engaged in charity work.
that is, 24 centners per hectare.
I was offered by the director of the sardar publishing house, who suggested writing a book about the Kazakh khans not for scientists, but for a simple reader.
Holding such a large-scale event in a neighboring country is important for the accumulation of experience in holding the upcoming international exhibition "kadex-2016" in Astana.
therefore, I believe that the topic of today's meeting is very appropriate and relevant.
it presents such positions as corruption, anti-corruption activities, anti-state ethics and the culture of Kazakh society within the ideology of the "eternal country," he said.
Recall that in early September 2015, as part of Nursultan Nazarbayev's visit to China, a tripartite memorandum was signed between the Chinese company jac motors and sms to begin production of a car under the jac brand.
According to him, the number of manufacturers of products will not decrease because of this, they will be implemented as part of other comprehensive measures prepared by the government.
here delegates were greeted with a "bata" according to the established tradition, and the girls sprayed and treated the guests with a national drink of kumys and tea.
The head of the region also drew attention to the fact that in the East Kazakhstan region auto industries show interest in new-time cars, paying great attention to the region's mechanical engineering.
After a high investment attractiveness in this country, there are not so many who want to settle.
study of the features of mountain rivers passage with the help of East Kazakhstan rivers, waterfowl, passages and improvised means.
b. hamilton expressed interest in supporting innovative development in Kazakhstan by establishing training of specialists based on his own experience.
According to the ministry, on the Kazakh side the document was signed by the chairman of the committee on veterinary control and supervision Saktash Hasenov, and the deputy vice-minister of environment and water resources - the high-ranking sultan abdullah sultan.
our parents bear great responsibility, so they were not taken to the ground.
all of them received training at the department's vocational training school under a special program.
The participants of the meeting paid special attention to the further strengthening of cooperation between the two countries, especially trade and economic ties, multilateral and inter-parliamentary relations.
this mixture contains a certain proportion of mineral filler and emulsified bitumen, water and additives, which helps to control the disintegration time of the emulsion.
a further project is the construction of a 120 MW power plant built by the Amf Group joint-stock company.
Today, combining the potential of the state and the business community, it is necessary to systematically address topical issues in the field of efficient production and women's entrepreneurship. today it is important to consolidate the potential of the state , the business community and ensure efficient production and a systematic approach to address the urgent problems in the area of women 's entrepreneurship .
Nursultan Abishevich also spoke about the moral aspects, an exemplary father.
the first sign represents the region, the next two are the city and district, and the remaining four are the building.
we watched drinks in Georgia.
Currently, more than 90 types of bearings have been mastered, next year this list will be replenished by another 80.
He also noted that Aktobe region is of great interest for the establishment of joint ventures.
The signed documents allow the Kazakh and British authorities to provide each other with active legal assistance in the field of investigation, prosecution and prevention of criminal offenses, as well as to exchange best practices in law enforcement, including the application of international human rights standards, and the expansion of technical and forensic capacity.
At the same time, the deputy akim of the capital warned residents of the capital about the need not to get in touch with dubious construction companies.
consumer goods are always in demand, especially since our South Kazakhstan region is a very densely populated region and borders with Uzbekistan. in the consumer goods always because there is a demand , the more that our south-kazakhstan region - the most densely populated , also borders uzbekistan .
simplification of procedures of entry and exit can be observed optimal result of reduction of transaction costs and simplification of tasks in terms of trade and economic investments is supported, degree of economic integration in the region is increased. the simplified visa regime will have a positive impact on transaction costs , will contribute to the trade and economic investments and increase the degree of economic integration .
every year, enterprises update the fleet of equipment that outstanding specialists need.
In general, speakers praised the initiative to place an abub in Kazakhstan.
for comparison, about 3 thousand electronic signatures were issued in Kyrgyzstan, in Kazakhstan their number amounted to more than 8.2 million.
Recall that today, November 6, a press center opened in the central office of the Nұr Otan party.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 44, paragraph 2 of article 55 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev sent an appeal to the Senate of Parliament on giving consent to the appointment of Daniyar Akyshev, interim assistant to the president - head of the socio-economic monitoring department of the presidential administration.
a photo exhibition was also organized.
The evaluation of candidates of the highest, first and second categories was carried out with the participation of examiners of independent experts who received special training.
representatives of parliament planted more than 200 trees on the left bank of the capital.
dreaming of a bright future, we must remember the past.
Recall that about 100 businessmen take part in the Kazakh-Serbian business forum in the capital.
we see great interest in the field of agricultural processing.
Thus, 446 students became the first graduates of Nazarbayev University.
we had to live up to the growing hopes of our ancestors, strengthen independence and create such a state in the Kazakh Darkhan steppe, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan is the legitimate leader of global peacekeeping initiatives and the non-proliferation of terrorism.
Germany has extensive experience in energy conservation, renewable energy and energy efficiency. germany has a lot of experience in energy efficiency , renewable energ .
At the same time, as the expert noted, the book of the head of state "in the wake of history" played a large role in ridding society of colonial consciousness.
the Benin side approved the interest in industrial safety and participation in the 7th ministerial conference of the general assembly and agriculture.
According to the Chinese side, the volume of visiting tourism by Chinese air in 2014 amounted to 115 million people.
here I would note the special merits of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who initiated this forum.
I want to thank the delegation of Kazakhstan for the warm welcome. i want to thank the kazakhstan delegation for the warm welcome .
unlike other products, satellites have no boundaries, since they fly in orbit, the delivery of services does not affect their cost.
in his welcoming speech, the head of the region noted that the basis of progress in the modern world of education is the prosperity of society and the development of a successful career.
all this is really necessary now to attract qualified specialists, including our colleagues and fellow countrymen working abroad, "said A. Issekeshev.
we have a lot of qualified young people, but they cannot find work in their specialties.
Today, as an alternative, the construction of wholesale sites on the site of the ramp is envisaged, "said V. Trifonov.
In June of this year, we signed a comprehensive agreement for the transportation of goods from China to Europe through Kazakhstan.
customs control at the border of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan was terminated on the basis of the provisions of the agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Eurasian Economic Union.
the structure of your proposals and the cost of the project, proposals for an action plan for the organization of the football academy.
Nursultan spoke at the 68th Olympiad, in which he became the winner of the competition, lifting two 32-kilogram silver 70-times and 100-times.
individual entrepreneurs and legal entities carrying out leasing activities as a lessee without a license; pawnshops; persons engaged in operations with precious metals and precious stones, jewelry from them; persons who provide intermediary services in the execution of transactions for the purchase and sale of real estate; payment acceptance operators.
the parties expressed satisfaction with the existing bilateral relations and exchanged information on the prospects for further cooperation.
technology institutions are very prestigious in India. the prestigious technology institutes in india are very popular in kazakhstan , such as engineering , technology .
The authors of the reports prepared by the Centre have selected in depth the reports of well-known analytical institutes and open-source materials, as well as interviews with Central Asian experts and many others.	the report consists of a detailed analysis of other reports from leading analytical centers , interviews with leading experts studying central asia and many other research materials .	0,73
Famous masters such as the Ramazan Stamgaziev, Aigul Kosanova, Saken Syzdyks, the virtue of Kemals and Abil give their assessments on folk singing.	the main jury in  dombra " category will be honored worker of kazakhstan , professor , chief conductor and artistic director of kazakh folk instruments orchestra aitkali zhayymov .
For the first time, the internship was organized by the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan together with the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation.
cultural seasons in two countries, taking into account the great opportunities in the cultural sphere and cooperation in potential areas.
In 2011, the first investment policy of the country was presented, in 2012 in the capital with the participation of the ministry. "
Together with the IAEA and other partners, we will ensure the prevention of any access to these materials, "the Kazakh Foreign Minister said.
The head of state noted that in 2017 a specialized international expo exhibition will be held in the capital, and called on a number of companies to take an active part in this event.
The main composition of the exhibition was replenished with the works of Almaty artists, these are the creative works of Salzhanov, Sainov, A.Utkin, A.Sesenbaev.
430 tons of products per year.
For 5 months of this year, local courts conducted more than 13 thousand trials using the new abta system.
these are real business cases in domestic business practice.
in Russia, an interreligious dialogue has developed well, in which there is also no relationship with the authorities. there is a good interfaith dialogue on the interaction of religion with the authirities , the issue of coordination of joint efforts .
in the individual competition for the first place lieutenant colonel b. daggers (14776 a/b) and major a. Aldabergenova (kb.
in their opinion, this measure will strengthen fire safety at agricultural facilities and prevent steppe fires.
and what is competition?
these include civil servants, deputies and judges.
also, depending on demand, the Almaty-2-outpost train will run daily (to the place of solar communication).
aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Kazkosmos) representatives of the management of the Baikonur cosmodrome, Infrakos RGP of Kazkosmos, the state property and privatization department at Baikonur of the state property committee and privatization of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the roscosmos department at the Baikonur cosmodrome, and the federal state unitary enterprise "space infrastructure."
To date, 104 representatives of small and medium-sized businesses have opened proceedings in places of serving sentences, 1 thousand 400 people have been employed.
Taking into account the economic development of our state, special proposals were made to regulate external labor migration and optimize internal migration.
that is, extradite.
micronesia is a Pacific state with a population of more than 130 thousand people.
in the future, the ability of portfolio companies to respond to external disputes shows how well and deeply changes have been made.
According to the press secretary of the city Nana Antidze, the akim of stepnogorsk anuar kumpekeyev congratulated the residents of the region on the opening of the museum and noted the importance of preserving history for future generations.
increasing the competitiveness of the real sector of the economy, dynamic development of the manufacturing industry and increasing the share of the agro-industrial complex.
universes were placed in these parks.
Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Svetlana Ferho and Svetlana Romanovskaya received citizens in the city branch "nұr Otan."
the state will determine minimum labor standards for guarantees and compensation to employees and strictly monitor the compliance of the employer's parties with these obligations, "the nurymbet exchange said.
the participants of the meeting exchanged experience in improving the quality of the paramilitary guard service in railway transport and facilities.
Since then, Kazakhstan and this committee have officially established partnerships.
guest chief conductor Valery gergiev: - We will definitely expand the repertoire, which enriches the cultural life of the cities of St. Petersburg and the capital, performing on tour visits.
this document is aimed at the economic development of the country.
The most difficult test for girls was that he was not lying under the tank.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 34 objects are subject to privatization.
As the Serbian president noted, the Serbian side can come with a large number of proposals.
Currently, integration is the only way out of the crisis. currently , integration becomes a necessity for the recovery from the global economic crisis .
representatives of foreign business see great potential of Kazakhstan.
masters of art from different countries come to the country, including participants and prize-winners of international competitions.
at the same time, the staffing of the regional courts will be reformatted, and the number of judges of the supreme court will increase. therefore it is necessary to reallocate the staff of regional courts , and to increase the number of judges of the supreme court .
we are confident that by joint efforts we will be able to bring cooperation between the two countries to a new level and give impetus.
There are geometric and zoomorphological forms in the decoration, "said the inspector of the center for the protection and use of historical and cultural heritage at the culture department of the Akmola region of the Rauan Yerzhans.
it includes abulatory and polyclinic care, inpatient care (excluding socially significant diseases), inpatient care (excluding socially significant diseases), restorative treatment, medical rehabilitation, palliative care and nursing examination and high-tech care.
Thanks to financial support and logistical equipment, representatives of the internal affairs bodies have created all the necessary conditions for countering crime and ensuring law and order in the city. thanks to the financial support of material and technical equipment , all conditions for the bodies of internal affairs to eliminate crime are created .
Kazakh experts, political scientists, sociologists and economists took part in the exchange of views.
In particular, the head of the country's main supervisory authority met with the Prosecutor General of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Konyuk, the Prosecutor General of the Uzbek Republic Ikhtyr Abdullayev, and the Prosecutor General of the People's Republic of China cao jianming.
a lot of people will gather for our events.
the authors of the state coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan are the Malibek gendarbek and the Valikhanov squad.
The head of state has repeatedly warned that the main indicator of the quality of life of our citizens is the level of comfort of the home. the head of state has noted , the best indicator of the quality of life of citizens - is the level of housing comfort .
Materials from party, local and regional government bodies were also analysed.
A number of Pavlodar enterprises have long cooperated with colleagues from Mangistau region.
According to representatives of educational bodies, there are 30 thousand 1 settlement with 626 thousand students of school age who do not have schools.
According to the Minister, the education sector plays an important role in solving problems and solving various sectors of the economy all over the world.
Opening the meeting, the head of the deputy group of the Senate of Parliament "region" Mikhail Bortnik drew attention to the fact that the message of the head of state N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - path to the future" defined the main directions of the country's economic policy.
It is worth noting that the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of August 30, 995 was adopted on the basis of a popular referendum and entered into force on September 5.
It is worth noting that the work of the deputy corps of the 4th session of the 5th convocation ended successfully.
it is very important that we find new horizons for relationships. today we have almost made up a new roadmap .
the head of the Batyr youth club Ayymbetov noted the history of asyk and held a national game of "six shots" among children.
all this we must constantly develop and bring positive results.
The Rules for the import and export of precious stones, precious metals, raw materials containing precious metals do not provide for norms that determine the origin of the goods for the purpose of customs declaration of these goods, the report said.
an example of a classic state in which Kazakhstan uses the traditional method of economic implementation.
Development of dairy processing projects.
the importance of implementing the president's instructions regarding the use of all resources and opportunities to increase the welfare of citizens.
each of us knew what to do and tried to strictly fulfill our tasks, "says the crew commander, Lieutenant Asylbek Musirmankulov.
This post, created in the Kostanay region, according to the census is 7.
According to the parties, cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan is successfully developing at the level of trust, equality and mutually beneficial partnership, reaching new heights every year.
In general, our strategy aimed at developing entrepreneurship is open to everyone.	also , the jury will invest the project if it has a specific business perspective ,  - k.bishimbayev said .
we propose to immediately indicate the category of energy efficiency when issuing a construction permit.
As the press secretary of Governor of Zharkainsky district Gulzhan Baigizov noted, funds are allocated for the reconstruction of housing under the Employment Roadmap 2020.
the exhibition presents more than 40 works of painting and decorative and applied art of Turkmen artists.
The Council for Cooperation in Education of the CIS Member States approved an interstate program to implement the concept of the formation of a single education in the CIS countries. the intergovernmental program on implementation of the concept of formation of a unified educational cis country was approved at the initiative of the council of cis heads of the governments .
As part of the fair, more than 20 institutions of employers in the capital provided jobs to security guards, bookkeepers, graphic arts specialists, etc.
the volume of silver production in the form of granules for nine months amounted to 2.45 million ounces.
At the expense of the district treasury, the station of young technicians was provided with furniture.
In the first half of this year, state inspectors carried out 6 thousand inspections.
As a result, the industrialization map for 2015-2019 Almaty will include 80.2 projects worth 29 billion tenge, thanks to which more than 4 thousand new jobs will be created during the commissioning period, and more than 5.5 thousand in the construction process.
According to the managing director of KTZ JSC, the chief engineer, until the full cycle of introducing innovative innovations into production, including from design to commissioning of new rolling stock, to the full implementation of the technical equipment necessary for the infrastructure, the final result of the work will not be successful.
On this important day I want to congratulate all Kazakhstanis and wish them good health and well-being. i want to sincerely wish all kazakhstan health , happiness , prosperity , because every kazakhstani family , every citizen of our country improves thanks to the improvement of our constitution .
According to the deputy director of the Kyzylorda branch of Kaztransgaz JSC, today 2500 residents have submitted applications for the installation of gas.
All my efforts in raising the younger generation I get inexhaustible inspiration, "said Musakhodzhaeva.
strengthening the independence and sovereignty of the state in the conditions of expanding cooperation between Kazakhstan and the world community is the main strategic task. "
state symbols had to meet not only aesthetic requirements, but also political ones.
Higher education institutions train specialists in the same qualifications. higher education institutions will develop educational programs to train specialists .
According to the organizer, 103 companies took part in the "tksh-expo-2015," of which 20 are domestic enterprises.
Two athletes from Kyzylorda region took part in competitions.
At the same time, as V. Lichtey emphasized, these programs earned funds in order to be ready for competition in the world market.
In addition, Nazarbayev University will host the international scientific and practical conference "Eternal Country," which will be attended by more than 1000 foreign and domestic scientists, international experts, representatives of business communities from 20 countries of the world.
production and processing of meat products in the industry increased by 3.6%, dairy products - by 10.0%, light industry - by 25.7%, including textiles - by 27.4%, chemical products - by 21.8%.
the parties agreed to intensify cooperation between the "national agency for the development of land content" nadloc "and cpit, including the opening of joint ventures.
this is a very important issue, because energy is the engine of all socio-economic development.
large-scale work pleases both children and their parents.
As the Governor of the region noted, new sports facilities are opened in the region every year, which will allow the population of the region to engage in mass sports.
According to the organizers, for families with children with gaps, the issue of receiving services at addresses is relevant.
On the first day of the competition, November 19, open classes took place, on the second day of November 20, the final stage took place, the winners of which were awarded.
China is interested in importing raw materials, that is, our raw materials are undergoing primary processing in Kazakhstan.
in most cases, labor relations between the employer and the employee will be carried out in accordance with the rules of self-regulation with strengthening the potential of collective agreements and mutual agreement in the areas of recruitment, movement of personnel, dismissal of the employee, working time, working conditions and remuneration, "the nurymbet Birman said.
and also plays a chamber-instrumental work of the outstanding Kazakh composer Mukan Tulebayev "poem."
flag raising takes place in the ethno-memorial complex "Atameken."
the archive contains materials and valuable books of Orthodox churches since 1873, original documents of the 19th century.
According to the results of 2014, 1 million 330 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, and this year it is planned to commission 1 million 360 thousand houses.
As the head of state recently noted, the current crisis is much more complicated than in 2007. as you know , almaty region has huge potential .
Of course, this will make a great contribution to the choice of profession in the future and the respectful attitude of young people to their cause.
While receiving his credentials, the President of Italy warmly congratulated the Kazakh ambassador on his appointment and wished him success in promoting Kazakh-Italian strategic cooperation.
In agreement with the coaching staff, representatives of branches of the federation in the regions have chosen the candidacy of Volkhovsky, "the president of the biathlon federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan said at a briefing.
It is no secret that the world has recently undergone global changes.
The competition will not only allow finding citizens who invest in the implementation of projects, but will also contribute to the further development of the invented world, "said the managing director.
The project also includes a gym equipped with modern equipment.
on the basis of this, one large-scale and effective line of environmental control is the key to ensuring environmental security and sustainable development of society.
this also applies to the construction of a nuclear power plant to be built in Kazakhstan, we will strengthen our relations in this direction, "the Prime Minister of Japan said.
True, we are sick of this status with economic conditions.
now at a new stage we are starting to strengthen cooperation in the manufacturing, as well as engineering and resource processing sectors of the economy.
the parties paid special attention to improving the effectiveness of international cooperation in matters of mutual legal assistance, continuing the exchange of experience in the areas of prosecutorial activity, and taking rational measures to enforce legislation in the field of deterring various transnational security threats.
in this case, the academy can attach importance to the training of each undergraduate.
The issues of improving the right to justice and continuing cooperation and partnership in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms were also discussed.
Prosecutors arrived in the capital to attend the 13th meeting of Prosecutors General of the member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the 25th meeting of the Coordinating Council of Prosecutors General of the member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
our winter is harsh and cold. in astana we have extremely continental climate , the winter is very cold and windy .
Another book is devoted to the traditions and customs of the Kazakh people.
This is a very deep level of partnership, here students not only from Russia and Russia, but also from other countries will study in this specialty in Russia and universities of Kazakhstan, "said A. Sulkharneev.
It was noted that at present the contacts between the two countries have reached positive dynamics in the spirit of strategic partnership, and the new bilateral document has fixed the foundations of Kazakh-Uzbek relations.
I ask the Senate of Parliament to support my decision for the benefit of the country's financial system, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
my father spent his whole life at school, rose to the rank of principal. my father all his life worked as assistant principal and principal .
It is worth noting that the guests invited Kazakh colleagues to the Eurasian Economic Forum this fall in Xi'an, Shaanxi Province and expressed the possibility of signing a bilateral agreement on the recognition of conformity assessment procedures.
Also, together with domestic and foreign airlines, we are working on the introduction of EXPO in the air transport ticket to the capital.
at the same time, he noted that the state provides them with great support in order to support business in such difficult conditions, for example, within the framework of iidb.
the commercialization of scientific and technical activities within the framework of state support will also be carried out.
in the new economic conditions, the president of the country obliges the mining and metallurgical complex to reach the maximum stage of production. the president instructs the mining and metallurgical complex to produce high value added products .
according to the bill, the international financial center "Capital" is a territory within the city of the capital with precisely established borders.
at the same time, R. As Zhoshybayev noted, the idea of ​ ​ holding this international exhibition in the capital was put forward by President N. Nazarbayev after participating in the exhibition EXPO-2008 in Zaragoza.
competitions were held in Karaganda.
for example, the authorities and participants of the center established an exemption from paying corporate income tax, property tax and land tax for 50 years until January 1, 2066.
Following discussions and discussions, a resolution will be adopted with the aim of improving the quality of urological assistance to the population of the country and improving the work of organizations.
peacekeeping actions are important for the state in fulfilling international obligations, promoting military-political positions, interests and authority of our country on the world stage as a whole.
One of the main tasks in Almaty is further modernization of markets. the modernization of the markets is one of the priorities of development of almaty .
Following the meeting, Kazakh companies headed by subsidiaries of the fund concluded a number of bilateral agreements providing for strengthening cooperation in the oil and gas, mining, energy sectors.
we have the potential to overcome possible difficulties that can occur during membership in the organization, "said the expert.
During the meeting, Head of the Department of Development of Customs Infrastructure of the State Customs Service under the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic Kassymbek alabbayev informed the participants about the progress of technical equipment of checkpoints on the Eeo customs border located in Kyrgyzstan.
however, given the current economic situation, we have stopped at 4% for SMEs and large enterprises without monitoring.
today in the program of innovative grants 9 different grants. the program of innovation grants includes nine types of grants , which are divided into three components : support of science , the creation of new companies .
Constitution Day is a special holiday in the Department of Justice of the capital.
independence palace consists of three floors and is a long pyramid.
Under these conditions, many uncompetitive enterprises will be forced to stop their activities and come up with other sources of income, "the deputy said.
the maximum decrease in investment investments occurred in the Bayanaul and Assumption regions.
I think that the memorandum of cooperation will not only determine our goals, but also ensure their implementation and effectiveness, "said D. Mynbay.
To date, we have received more than 70 applications for participation in the competition.
On July 30, at 20.00, the official opening of the session will take place.
The national emblem of Kazakhstan has a round shape - this is a symbol of eternity, which received special respect from the nomads of the great steppe.
According to him, linking the interactive map with the register of pre-trial investigations, law enforcement agencies received information about the time at which the crime was committed.
of these, 33,433 residential objects worth 102.7 billion tenge, 17,315 non-residential objects worth 100.9 billion tenge, including 4,337 commercial objects worth 71.2 billion tenge, 15 objects of participation of legal entities worth 0.8 billion tenge, securities worth 4.0 billion tenge.
An important aspect of interaction is the exchange of experiences in joint training and capacity-building on asymmetric threats (training of special forces).
the purpose of the law is to improve the current legislation on historical and cultural heritage, circus and theater art, museum and library affairs, as well as archival affairs.
over the years, the university has prepared more than 500 laureates of international competitions and more than 300 republican competitions in the field of musical art.
The loan in the amount of $88 million is provided to the Republic of Kazakhstan with a maturity period of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
according to this method, the volume of water consumption is reduced by 5 times compared to the traditional irrigation method.
work is also under way to introduce effective mechanisms to achieve tolerance in political economic and political professional relations among young people.
Kazakhstan was headed by the Director of the European Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Finnish side was headed by the Director General of the Department of Foreign Affairs of Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
citizens of the village and farmers, entrepreneurs need to convey all the information.
there are several legends in this regard.
Also, Chinese servicemen won the nomination "best sniper pair."
In turn, this will increase the income of the cooperative. "
The Constitution has transformed human potential and its rights, freedom, into the main value. the constitution has proclaimed the priority of a person , his rights , freedoms and the country has created quite effective human rights mechanisms .
There will also be 7 memes for the elderly and disabled, in which more than 49 thousand people live.
Tajikistan is a fraternal country with us, so we are interested in its sustainable development.
secondly, there will be linkages between small and medium-sized enterprises in competitive sectors.	the first - development of potential of small and medium-sized businesses , which implies an expansion of non-financial state support for small and medium businesses .	0,74
a number of ratification bills will be discussed at the plenary session.	the plenary session will also introduce the draft amendments to the law  on the assembly of people of kazakhstan @ @ . "
the index of physical volume in the production of food products amounted to 94.1%.
According to him, as part of the "Road to School" action, emphasis will be placed on the identification of cases of non-participation of children and students, the introduction of controllers in socially vulnerable families that assist children in collecting to school.
the construction of schools and kindergartens continues, the construction of hotels and recreation places has begun.
Here, internal finishing work and landscaping of the facility are underway, the necessary structures are located.
According to the general director of the Ural bakery enterprise Khamzat Isaev, the main value of the enterprise is its products.
we are witnessing that the transport was carried out at a shorter time.
more than two years ago, Kazakhstanis had the opportunity to purchase domestic-made peugeot cars from official dealers of the brand.
We believe that the tasks assigned to the country are carefully thought out and differentiated, "said the chief executive officer of Citigrup.
our country has implemented all the rules and requirements of the basic law, "the head of state said.
Today, the capital is the pride of all Kazakhstanis, admires the guests.
then he was met by whitewash soldiers and the Shymkent garrison.
35,738 non-residential facilities worth KZT293.6 bn, 18,474 non-residential facilities worth KZT107.7 bn were received, including 4,578 commercial facilities worth KZT74.7 bn, 15 interests of legal entities worth KZT0.8 bn and securities worth KZT4.0 bn.
Including the heads of enterprises of the mining and metallurgical industry, tkm workers, employees of government agencies, deputies of the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the same time, about. As Silaev noted, it is necessary to regularly hold competitions such as the "jubilee family," since only such competitions determine family values ​ ​ and priorities.
The event is timed to coincide with a festive concert.
b.Saparbayev also touched upon aspects of the new economic policy regarding reforms in the real sector of the economy and the new monetary policy regime.
Recall that kaznex invest works in East Kazakhstan region, helping carriers with various means of support.
In addition, the vice president added that the company operates on the domestic market as much as possible in transporting imported foam export cargo.
on the day of passing the results of the comprehensive testing were posted on information boards, as well as on the www.testcenter.kz website of the National Testing Center.
the first copy of the publication was handed over to the President of Serbia.
project capacity is designed for the production of 5,000 km of cable per year.
The portal contains the following objects:
In addition, today our institute has entered into an agreement with the Chinese standardization body.	our committee of technical regulation is a member-partner .	0,74
From August 10, work began on the installation of windows, the roof will soon be closed. the secretary of city maslikhat galiya kopeyeva expressed satisfaction with the progress of repairs and asked the builders to work proactively , " - the statement says .
The first word at the opening was opened by the head of the department of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in Zhambyl region.
Therefore, all structures of Kazakhstan are aimed at preventing or timely exposing criminal acts, "A. Daulbaev reports.
in the event of such deficiencies, such material should be forwarded to the judicial ethics commission. in case of such violations , these materials must be passed to the commission on judicial ethics .
The Code of Criminal Procedure was being drafted for changes.
social stability, inter-ethnic harmony and interreligious harmony in Kazakhstan correspond to the high moral values and goals of the Order of Malta.
At the same time, the Vice Minister noted that the new form of assistance will be divided into 2 types - unconditional and conditional monetary assistance.
One of the kindergartens is located on Panfilova Street - "sevkazenergo" is being built.
this event is a clear implementation of the policy of the head of state aimed at improving the quality of life of Kazakhstanis. this event is an evidence of the implementation of the policy of the head of state , aimed to improve the quality of life in kazakhstan , " the head of the region said .
We are confident that at this event we demonstrated the power and dedication of the Kazakh army and showed our country at a high level, "said the captain of the Baijigit company.
in the legislative process, the Senate and Majilis worked closely with the national modernization commission and the Government.
According to the contracting organization, the school roof will be closed by the end of September and sewerage will be carried out by the end of the year.
The main topic of the agenda was the practical implementation of the Nazarbayev-Merkel initiative aimed at introducing a dual education system according to the German model in Kazakhstan.
cooperation with human rights and anti-terrorism structures of the United Nations, Ecu, the Council of Europe, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other international organizations.
according to him, if one leader comes here, then the continuation will disappear, followed by the process.
this document will be created in a new format and will ensure the close operation of the entire fiscal service.
In particular, we are developing new developments related to mining, reconstructing the enrichment complex, introducing a new system for labor protection and reducing the cost of products in all areas.
preferential borrowed funds are allocated for the purchase of energy resources and raw materials, further production and export of yellow phosphorus.
for all applications for the appointment of pensions and benefits, electronic models of cases have been developed and sent to the authorized body for consideration.
competitive selection (psychological test, physical fitness standards, medical examination) is carried out by adolescents at the university.
more than 5,000 foreign participants attend the ivlp program annually.
In his speech, Mr. Sidorsky presented the results of the development of the agro-industrial complex and information on self-sufficiency in the main agricultural and food products in the common market of the EAEU.
this way of working with young entrepreneurs through previously organized acceleration programs can be called a necessary tool for producing strong companies and young, strong businessmen, "said Anna Degtereva, founder and director of the happy farm company.
On behalf of the head of state, over the past three years, work has been carried out to launch innovative production for integrated coal processing. on behalf of the president , the past 3 years we carried out work on the creation of innovative production on complex processing of coal .
B. Saparbayev visited the Department of Cardiology, Cardiac Surgery and Adaptation.
here the flag passes into the "water wave" of the action passing through the water, and the protesters now carry the flag along the Ishim River through the boat.
"- summed up the member of the commission on the classification system of hotels M. Sokova.
As noted N. Joyful, the state is trying to help these companies not to raise tariffs.
The President of Kazakhstan noted this in a message to the people in 2014.
During the meeting, the participants heard the chairman of the specialized inter-district juvenile court No. 1 of the East Kazakhstan region.
this school is the largest in number since its inception.
it is also an important trend of decentralization and the basis and democratic principle for the implementation of the Constitution.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the agreements between the two parties this year, a number of members of the Nұr Otan party passed exchange courses at the higher party school under the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine.
students are actively involved in the educational process, that is, they not only write lectures, but also go directly to the center of the process, "said the dean of the medical school.
Jacek Klyuchkovsky expressed gratitude, noting that for 4.5 years of his mission he made a special contribution to the development of political, economic, social, cultural relations.
The main goal is to unite representatives of various directions of art as the festival is not limited to either artists, or actors, or musicians ", - the head of establishment explained.
this figure shows that the number of our publications is really growing.
so far there is no sports facility in this region equal to this area.
the future of the country is in their hands.
texts of laws are published in the press.
The program of the action includes a concert of children's groups and amateur artists of the Arshalyn district.
unemployed, low-income, self-employed and all citizens seeking work are invited to the fair.
Now equipment and people can walk freely along the street, the road is closed, "said the deputy commander of the airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan for armament colonel free alashbekov.
As a result of the scientific and technical process, over the past decade, new technologies have been introduced and successfully put into practice, such as magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound and intervention studies to detect the disease.
The Constitution is actually real life, because it is always used by judges in the process of work.	however , the constitution has the article 25 stipulates that  the home is inviolable .
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an awareness of the role of women in the formation of our statehood. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate - is time to think about participating of women in khanate , their role in the establishment of our statehood .
It should be noted that the ix civil forum is the beginning of the discussion of the Almaty development program within a month.
after Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, the trading platform for domestic entrepreneurs, especially for agricultural products, will expand.
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the beginning of the holy holiday of oraz ait! i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the occurrence of one of the most revered muslim holidays - eid al-fitr !
the bill provides for measures to stimulate the return of ethnic Kazakhs to their historical homeland.	it is connected with the instructions within  100 concrete steps " and relates to attracting foreign labor .
All work in this direction will be possible thanks to the unity of the people, their selfless work and Kazakhstani patriotism.
his shoes "Petrosyan" worked in the Peter and Paul market in hired form since 1972.
According to him, with a population of 17 million people, with a good life situation, Kazakhstan does not pose a migration threat to these countries.
the history of Kazakhstan "is not studied from the sixth grade, but from the fifth grade in the subject" history of the world, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
As Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov noted, today a special educational program for children with disabilities is being developed to obtain a specific specialty.
Representatives of other countries confirmed that Kazakhstan has created great opportunities for business development.
the system automatically calls customers 3 times a day, on working days from 8:00 to 21:00, and on weekends from 10:00 to 21:00, until a voice message is received, "said the head of the Kazpost press service.
According to these finances, 8 road projects are being implemented within the framework of Nұrly zhol, "the minister said.
124 graduates who scored a maximum of 3 points in the region - turlin rakhila serikovna, Khromtau district, graduate of the Khromtau gymnasium No. 2, owner of the "golden sign"; umbetova azkena abdulmanapovna, a graduate of a grateful secondary school, the owner of the "golden sign" of the city of Aktobe; tanirbergen aidan zhayyrgalikyza, alga district, graduate of Bestamak secondary school.
Ahmad and Jasmat and Mohammed al-Thani are also ready to take part in the exhibition in the capital and will share their innovative initiative in the field of solar energy.
Governor of Kokshetau got acquainted with the construction of the wedding palace.
in my opinion, this is not a panic, because more attention was paid to this issue, and the level of crime detection began to increase.
As the director of the department noted, a number of events have been held to date.
It is noted that a special delegation visited Istanbul enterprises for the production of paper packages, cardboard packages, plastic packages, big bag, metal packages.
this will improve services and create new electronic services for the population, business, non-profit organizations, state and state fragile structures.
The average rating is issued according to the certificate and at the prices obtained from today's testing.
the fifth reserve included in the world system of biosphere reservers in the territory of Aksu-Zhabag Kazakhstan.
this will accelerate energy efficiency housing construction.
the sinister word is the destruction of the fortress.
The event will be supported by the akimats of these cities, health and education authorities.
Therefore, in the coming period, we must participate in a broad public awareness of the importance and importance of these laws. some of the laws have been signed by the head of state , including a new civil procedure code , which makes a fundamental change in the legal sphere .
a large amount of diesel fuel is also supplied for seasonal grain transportation and harvesting.
We regard this agreement as a historic event that will significantly strengthen regional and international security, contribute to the settlement of relations between Iran and the international community and promote the economic and social development of all states of the region, Kazakh-Iranian bilateral cooperation.
at the same time, we can talk about the need for wheat in Kazakhstan, since it contains a lot of gluten. in this connection we may note wheat - it has a high percentage of gluten .
taking advantage of this success, I want to thank the entire Russian people for their attention.
By order of the MZSR, two professors are appointed freelance advisers to the minister.
before that, there were more and more migrants to our country, the tolerance of our country was manifested in the provision of equal rights and opportunities to all peoples, "said R.
At the end of the meeting, the participants agreed to continue multilateral cooperation to solve problems arising from unregulated mixed migration and labor migration to central Asia.
therefore, you should not talk about the possibility of raising tariffs, "the agency said.
a feature of the project is the record drilling of a very deep support-parametric well.
under the terms of the agreement, the parties render mutual aid in investigation, criminal investigation department, criminal offense and also in the affairs which are carried out on the questions relating to criminal activity.
The main thing is that in this area there is a clearly indicated direction of the government and it is important that it has a positive impact on the trust of society, "the deputy said.
the bill has been discussed in our society for several years. the bill is discussed for several years .
Kazakhstan is creating conditions for all necessary measures to be covered by the Russian side.
last year, the average was 74.2 points.
The 5 km race was dominated by a representative of the city of Petropavlovsk.
Issues of Kazakh-Mongolian cooperation, as well as inter-parliamentary dialogue were discussed during the meeting.
It is planned to attract 22 km of new water supply networks with funds allocated for drinking water during the year, it is planned to build 22 new wells and build five reservoirs.
today's summit is taking place in a difficult transition period of the global economy. today 's summit is held in difficult conditions of a turbulent period for the global economy .
in addition, foreign workers are exempt from paying individual income tax.
in particular, the author in the exposition of illustrations of the founder of the Kazakh fencing of telzhanov kanafy, the widely recognized master of the landscape of Shardenov's genre, the famous anomalist nurlan badzhirov, a rich field culture, the author of an unconventional bube, the bastball of kassymes (topics of philosophy, harmony of man and nature) and lyrical landscape representations
today there is a whole military town with new landscaped houses, which are considered the most exemplary in the armed forces.
The Mersin province is located on the Mediterranean coast and is famous for its large port, industrial base and agricultural infrastructure.
Within the framework of iidmb, two mini-plants and a fish processing workshop are being built.
According to experts, the exhibition makes a significant contribution to the development of the industry and develops relationships.
factory shops have equipment controlled through an automated program of sewing, coloring, sewing tables.
European investors say this process is an important priority to take effect.
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an important event that laid the foundation for the international situation, the formation and strengthening of the unity of the people. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate - is an important event uniting and strengthening the spirit of the peoples of kazakhstan .
it is also planned to hold a scientific and expert round table on the topic "Formation of the civil identity of Russia and Kazakhstan."
The head of the city stressed the importance of the basic law and emphasized that our legislation is the golden table for strengthening our independence, forming an effective state-legal system, improving the well-being of the population, further prosperity of Kazakhstan, popular will and forces.
Many of them noted that they do not see the world as a country that celebrates this holiday with great respect every year.
Therefore, the factor-point border, which we are talking about, should be applied only for administrative public servants, "said A.Shaimov.
Thus, there was a great deal of advice on this issue.
residents of the Sandyktau region - 19 thousand 600 people, in the region of 13 rural districts and the village of culture.
first knocked out of the district, then they began preparations for the regional stage.
new enterprises introduced on the industrialization map have become more efficient than other enterprises.
At the opening ceremony of the forum, First Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Johan Merkel noted that within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, within the framework of the implementation of the agreed policy on the free transport of goods, services, capital, labor and in key sectors of the economy, the prosecutors of the two states set themselves new tasks.
Note that the new economic region of Suwei borders on the east with the yellow sea and borders with Japanese and Korean countries.
we have to thank them.
I thank the president of Corporation from Father LLP daulet turlykhanov, who participated in the delivery of Chinese colleagues to our region.
the share of deposits placed in non-resident banks in foreign currency amounted to 95.4% of the total volume of placed interbank deposits.
7,499 documents in the field of registration of legal entities were received through the SSC. as for registration of legal entities , the bodies received 7,499 documents .
as a result of this project, the optimal conditions will be created for the development of effective competition between second-tier banks by organizing equal access to the services of the system (maintaining the principle of "equal distance").
The press conference will be attended by the Vice Minister of Culture and Sports, a scientist of the Akhmediyars, Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Darhan Mynbai, Director of the Central State Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Alimbay, member of the scientific and expert council of kha George kan, Director of the Institute of History and Ethnology named after sh.ualikhanova.
Following the talks, agreements were reached on the arrival of the Egyptian business delegation in Kazakhstan in order to develop cooperation in the pharmaceutical sector.
in the implementation of these projects, special attention will be paid to the use of domestic construction materials that attach Kazakhstan's importance to construction.
motorcycle racers pass a flag with a logo dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate to the heads of each region, hold meetings and visit historical places that are important in the history of Kazakhstan.
parliamentarians discussed new threats and threats, including tensions in Ukraine, and also expressed their opinion on the further improvement of the organization's activities.
During the meeting, the heads of delegations discussed the prospects for cooperation and cooperation between the Ministry of Internal Affairs (police) of the CIS member states, countering new threats and threats to the security of the Commonwealth countries, and the implementation of interstate criminal programs.
In turn, the volume of production of small and medium-sized businesses in the first half of the year amounted to 156.6 billion tenge.
Today, the authors of technology are strengthening the base of electronic flights, so any carriers and representatives of agency cash desks can return to our program developers and make ticket sales in a simplified way, "said the deputy general director.
the project will promote access to justice by increasing transparency, strengthening public scrutiny and strengthening the professional skills of judges and judicial leaders.
agreements and proposals on the transfer of a number of industrial enterprises to Kazakhstan are being implemented in full swing.
As for iidmb-2, its main feature is regional specialization using the cluster method.
on the opening of the fifth session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation.
And Vladimir Kravtsov, in turn, invited his colleague to take part in the republican national cultural event in Grodno next June.
including Germany, Switzerland, Norway, Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary and the Benelux countries.
thus, the personnel strengthen their combat training and adapt to the performance of combat missions in the field during the day and night.
Over the past two years, one of the key problems in the country has been solved. the capital has solved another urgent problem .
this is an achievement achieved with the help of entrepreneurs on individual partnerships.
As part of the first five-year plan, we have created good export potential in various sectors of mechanical engineering, "said A. Rau.
A.Aatambayev expressed hope for further strengthening of bilateral cooperation and stressed that in the future there should be no borders between our fraternal peoples.
in Taraz State University B. Saparbayev held a meeting with deputy akims of regions, akims of districts, heads of departments, regional departments and educational institutions, enterprises and business structures on issues related to the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
satellite and other cargo security services are involved.
the agency will assist the institute in developing a methodological framework. the agency will help to shape an institute and the entire methodological framework , to design and implement programs .
Volume of gross agricultural output in January-September 2015. amounted to KZT2016.4 bn and increased by 3.1% compared to January-September 2014.
Speaking to the conference participants, Abdikalikova noted that the Kazakh Khanate became the first national state in Central Asia.
The documents will be signed tomorrow with the participation of the general director of the yukio amano magate. " sadykov.
I am glad that the number of people wishing to become members of our party is growing every year. we are very pleased that each year the number of members grows , " - he said .
on certain issues in Kazakh or Russian.
In 2014, the trade turnover exceeded 105.2 million dollars.
the constitution and kha are not only peers, it is the basis of stability and dynamic development of the country.
The specially prepared plan takes into account the resources of the wood processing industry of the region, a number of countries for the export of processed products, the technical and technological state of forestry.
we attach great importance to alternative sources of energy.
such services save the time of entrepreneurs, form an individual approach to each entrepreneur.
of these, 35,424 residential facilities worth 290.6 billion tenge, 18,342 non-residential facilities worth 107.2 billion tenge, including 4,543 commercial facilities worth 74.3 billion tenge, 15 participation interests of legal entities worth 0.8 billion tenge and securities worth 4.0 billion tenge.
the building is distinguished by its design.
Also, as part of the development of the tourism cluster of the South Kazakhstan region, issues of delivering infrastructure to the settled reserve-museum were discussed.
According to the sheikh, thirdly, a clear, firm course should be taken to preserve religious conscience and purity, that is, to speak directly and as openly as possible.
they vowed to serve their native country.
"We help a person look with confidence into the future of family and children, to have housing," said the chairman of the board of directors of Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan during a meeting with German colleagues deceived by alina.
Letters and telegrams from heads of interstate organizations, various companies, representatives of culture continue to be sent to the head of state.
One of the main activities of the department is the development of sports among students, their preparation for the summer and winter universiades of 2016-2017, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
As the chairman of the center noted, in each village where the train stopped, an action "unprecedented gift" was held.
Young people who grew up over the years of independence believe that Kazakhstan has long been so sovereign. "
Customers of Kazakh banks are holders of payment cards, guaranteeing continuity and completion of operations within the country.
the native language of each people is considered a very high value. each nation has its mother tongue .
in turn, he presented the master, content and communication plans of the exhibition.
The Ural-flood highway is conducted at the second technical level. the road uralsk - taskala - saratov is based on the technical parameters of the second category with the two-way traffic .
Adilbek Dzhaksybekov instructed to organize upcoming meetings of the Capital football club in the framework of the Champions League to organize cultural and sports recreation of citizens.
Recall that within the framework of the second five-year plan of industrialization - 2015-2019. - About 380 projects will be implemented in the country and more than 60 thousand jobs will be created.
the unwavering strength of our state directly depends on whether families are happy in it.
It will be attended by more than 2 thousand orphans from low-income and disadvantaged families, as well as stars of Russian and domestic art.
The Sultan of Oman congratulated Kabus and Said Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday, wished him happiness and good health, and also expressed his readiness for further progress and prosperity of the friendly Kazakh people.
an agreement has been reached with all contracting companies, at present our company has developed a number of memoranda on the preservation of jobs for signing between local executive bodies and contracting organizations, "said Möndigaliyev.
the Romanian delegation told how ethnocultural associations in Kazakhstan are presented to state bodies and how they develop their languages ​ ​ and culture.
The Ambassador also met with the organizers and management of the largest European folklore festival in the city of Fillah and got acquainted with the possibility of Kazakhstan's participation in the event.
firstly, we reduced transaction costs, secondly, I openly say that inflationary targeting has had a positive effect on us as an exporter.
human resources are mainly the responsibility of the higher education system. the task of ensuring personnel is assigned mainly to the higher education system .
According to him, the budget of the city of Aktau provides for the replacement and installation of makeshift plaques on the territory of socially significant educational and health facilities.
In their speeches, representatives of the Italian side highly appreciated the Kazakh experience of the constitutional system, noting the special role of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in the constitutional development of Kazakhstan.
As for local prerequisites, political stability, market hunting mechanisms and measures taken to protect the rights of investors can be noted here. speaking about the local premises it 's necessary to mention political stability , market mechanisms of functioning of agribusiness and measures taken to protect the rights of investors .
In addition, in the fifth convocation of the head of state, the need was voiced to combine efforts to combat the consequences of hunger and poverty, epidemics, unemployment and natural disasters.
as a result, they are empowered to identify graduates obliged to provide preliminary information (a) to the Yeek.
we tried to cover not only civil servants, but also persons associated with kha work. as you know , our academy has the expert council created in 2011 to address issues of inter-ethnic and inter-confessional relations .
The most important thing is that for the first time Kazakhstan will produce Kazakhstani raw materials - comic sulfur from influenza sulphide, the issue of the need for sulfuric acid of industrial enterprises "kazatomprom" will be resolved.
In fact, as of August 13, 182 objects were released, including 84 objects sold.
It is also the first time that the procedure for granting the right to simplified intelligence on Australian practice has been adopted, "said B. Nurabaev.
in fact, this is a success, because the macroeconomic situation is not so favorable.
At this tournament, the general manager of the sparklers was invited to the Okzhetpes team.
In turn, the "divers" showed the guests a small concert and pleased their work.
A sincere charity event was organized by the internal policy department of the Arshaly district together with representatives of the youth resource center.
in the regions of the republic there are crisis centers, special departments that deal with the protection of the rights of children of all categories.
Therefore, road workers of the South Kazakhstan region decided to draw the attention of drivers to this issue.
when foreigners buy our services and goods, it is necessary to have Kazakh content.
also the holder of a grant from Lomonosov Moscow State University.
our officials feel like international officials and work for the benefit and economic position of the EAEU countries.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 23 applications for legalization of residential facilities in the amount of 674.0 million tenge.
Deputies called on representatives of this enterprise to take part in the Agribusiness 2020 program, which compensates for almost half of the costs.
we are witnessing that some statements by political leaders without responsibility lead to humanitarian disasters, such as the Middle East.
object is equipped with ultrasonic installations.
According to the organizers, following the results of the conference it is planned to issue scientific articles.
This year, the second application of Kazakhstan is being considered, which means that the territory of Kazakhstan is 100% free from foot and mouth disease, "he said.
Within its framework, industrial-innovative, scientific activity is aimed at achieving results.
In addition, the organization of primary health care activities will discuss issues of medical and diagnostic work, innovations in the treatment and prevention of cardiological and therapeutic diseases, laboratory and service diagnostics.
In addition, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan who arrived in East Kazakhstan region met with employees of the regional administration Svetlana Ferkho and Svetlana Romanovskaya.
As long as this program is provided, public authorities receive images free of charge for the entire time, respectively, if the program is completed, then this service will be paid.	it is also planned to change the forest , water , environmental codes , laws on narcotic drugs , on the subsoil , civil protection , on surveying and mapping .	0,75
the imam noted that leaders of this and other religions and faiths who will not sit at the negotiating table in other places will gather in the capital square.	this is a big problem can lead to a global catastrophe and causes great damage to the whole world ,  - imam m.kairgaliyev said .
During the meeting, Minister of Agriculture a. Mamytbekov, akim of Akmola region S. Kulagin, akim of Kostanay region n.saduakas and akim of North Kazakhstan region e. Sultanov.
The installation of the concrete foundation of the ice arena for 3 thousand places was completely completed, 65% of the installation of monolithic reinforced concrete and metal structures was completed.
relevant agreements and agreements with universities of Kazakhstan have been signed.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Kairbek Kursenbayev and Chairman of the Committee on Land Resources and Housing and Communal Services, Construction of Marhabat Zhayymbetov will take part in the press conference.
Particular attention was paid to threats to European security, including in the context of the impact of tensions in Ukraine on stability in the Eku territory.
Recall that in 2015 the World Special Olympic Games will be held from July 21 to August 5 in Los Angeles.
In this regard, various events are held annually in the country.
its main goal is to create a single standard of title education for all states.
In particular, in the house of officers of the Taraz garrison of the regional command "South," military personnel organized a festive concert in the center for the treatment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities.
this program protects Kazakhstan from the crisis in the world economy, not only in the energy sector, but also in other sectors.
the benefit of the state - creating conditions for the functioning of an effective market economy, increasing investment activity. " sultans.
therefore, we must study the experience of advanced countries, but not copy a single one, "said A.Baimenov.
of these, 36,842 residential facilities in the amount of 304.3 billion tenge, 18,879 non-residential facilities in the amount of 111.9 billion tenge, including 4,678 commercial facilities in the amount of 78.5 billion tenge, 15 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.8 billion tenge and securities in the amount of 4.0 billion tenge.
The Air Defence Forces are mandated to identify and take measures to capture and destroy them in a timely manner.
work on the Kazakhstan part of the international highway has been completed, now reconstruction should be carried out along the route of the Russian Federation-Orenburg-Kazan-St. Petersburg.
work in this direction is carried out in close cooperation with the relevant departments and akimats of the regions, "Isabekuly said.
artists, depending on the importance of each work, carefully developed the concert program, all selected compositions are masterpieces.
In addition, the 32nd microdistrict is completing the construction of a 661.3-apartment building in the amount of 120 million tenge, the commissioning period is September 2015.
The Karaganda foundry project is being implemented in Karaganda and is aimed at increasing labor productivity and increasing value added.
in the building of the center there are places of registration, a large operating room, two large conference rooms for training, wide rooms, business incubators for novice citizens.
it is also planned to begin the joint development and production of unmanned aerial vehicles for military and civilian purposes, the supply, repair, maintenance of aircraft simulator systems.
The joyful ambassador noted that "we all have great tasks to modernize the Kazakh society and strengthen Kazakhstan's statehood, outlined in the national plan, to fulfill the instructions of the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev."
in all educational organizations, juvenile adaptation centers, orphanages. "
to do this, work is carried out on the republic, first in the regional courts, then each judge of the supreme court applied this practice. first , the regional courts summarized the practice , then each of the judges of the supreme court .
38,874 objects worth 268.2 billion tenge were legalized.
in the summer period, it covers 186 school camps of 23,798 children, "the report said.
During the summer season, 188 pre-school general education schools plan to organize health camps with 26,343 children. during the summer school camps will be organized at 188 secondary schools covering 26,343 primary school children .
15% of small and medium-sized enterprises operating throughout the country are in Almaty, "the Governor said.
The composition of the judges recommended the creation of two independent commissions - qualification and disciplinary.
the capital and Moscow are united by the centuries-old common history of our peoples and the comprehensive mutually beneficial partnership of the two states at a new stage of development. astana and moscow combine centuries-old common history and all-round mutually beneficial cooperation .
According to the chairman of the Majilis, the work on the adoption of operational bills showed an example of the joint work of people's representatives and members of the government.
Kazakhstan's investments in Russia amounted to about $3 billion.
In addition, the Burnoye solar station will constantly produce electric lighting, the project will be a vivid example of successfully implemented initiatives in the field of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Kazakhstan on the eve of the expo-2017 exhibition.
The project, which will be introduced in the Arshalyn district, provides for implementation on the portal. zhakupova.
Council members discussed more than ten draft documents aimed at deepening the economic integration of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
that is, state authorities will not benefit from court cases, because they act within the framework of the law, "the judge said.
He congratulated the personnel of the military unit 41433, thanked the head of the district operation department of Major Marat Zhumashev and awarded the certificate to the personnel.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 on behalf of the Head of State x. M. Garcia Margallo received a unique invitation to participate in EXPO 2017 addressed to the King and Prime Minister of Spain.
on social networks, one can observe a positive assessment of residents of the appearance of the city.
As a result, 284 jobs were created, 1,848 jobs were saved.
industrial-innovative program, construction of processing industry.
in Kazakhstan, as in foreign countries, the probation service cooperates with the non-governmental industry. the work of non-governmental sector is directed to minors registered in probation service centers .
in this regard, the possibility of attracting extrabudgetary funds through your bank in the implementation of these projects is very relevant. in this regard , in order to attract off-budget funds , due to institutions like ebrd , it becomes particularly relevant .
Following the discussion, in accordance with the Rules for awarding presidential awards in the garden sphere, the public commission unanimously decided to recommend to the head of state, through an open vote, to present two prizes to representatives of the garden, to present two grants and to announce the president's gratitude to four creative teams.
This year, the MoS has increased the number of questions on logical and functional literacy in connection with new trends.
citizens will be able to receive free advice on the prevention of acute respiratory viruses, pneumococcal infections and influenza.
Our country as a full member of the X ministerial meeting, which will be held on December 10-18 in Narobi, which will give a new impetus to the development of the country's economy through deep integration, "said Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov.
K. Zhigalov invited representatives of Caribbean states to take an active part in the EXPO.
for the will to win, he was awarded to a Belarusian soldier walking along the path with wounded legs.
so, the exposition of the constitution hall consists of 4 sections: 1. Kazakh customs; 2 . the history of the Constitution of Kazakhstan; 3 . Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 1995; 4 . constitutions of foreign countries.
Speaking to the participants, Director of the Department of Preschool and Secondary Education, Information Technology of Kazakhstan read out a letter from Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev.
During the official visit to Kazakhstan, the heads of the two states made joint statements and signed the following documents:
the rest consider it right to serve in other regions of the republic, "the report said.
As the Vice Minister noted, these changes, on the one hand, will allow to establish social justice for pensioners receiving a low pension due to the lack of income information, on the other hand, to stimulate the legalization of labor relations today and the future generation of workers.
tourism development in the region is the third initiative proposed by the head of the region.
Most likely, the aymbets plan to return to the ground on September 12.
This action is designed to promote the spiritual values ​ ​ of the people, improve the knowledge of young people in this form, effectively organize leisure activities to educate them in the spirit of mercy, prevent undesirable actions of young people, "said the deputy akim of the region. Nerbayev.
previously, schools were under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	as the ministry of defence reports , now the schools got the name  zhas ulan . "
Also, the project "registration of inspections in electronic form" eliminates the repetition of inspections, ensures the requirements of their brevity.
students, journalists, young scientists who won the competition will have the opportunity to visit the UK in an educational direction.
This issue is especially important in anticipation of EXPO-2017, where representatives of our ministry prepared a special plan.
there are no other expenses.
In accordance with the memorandum between the Governor's Office of the Shalabai rural district and the peasant economy, 4.5 million tenge was allocated to organize summer holidays and improve the health of children.
As a result of the analysis of the business sphere, the head of the region put forward a number of initiatives to solve issues that impede business development in the region.
According to the European Union representative office in Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan is the first partner in Central Asia to conclude an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation with the European Union.
he needs to explain that our life expectancy has increased in just 10 years from 64 to 72 years.
Professional training under the program "ZhSK 2020" covered 2147 people.
most of the orders for trolleys of electric locomotives of the kz8 series are completed.
I think that today's meeting will give impetus to work in this direction and strengthen the partnership between anti-doping organizations.
they cannot use the equipment, since they do not have property for initial payment and collateral.
When buying goods in an online store, when a client writes the desired address, the module automatically shows various delivery methods and tariffs, "explained the head of the Kazpost press service to Bairam Aziz.
the technical park will be updated.
The second place was taken by Uzbek athletes, the third - Georgians.
The event was attended by Russian and European experts and the best representatives of the Kazakhstan Research Institute.
The leaders of the two countries confirmed their readiness for close joint work to further strengthen Kazakh-Serbian friendly relations.
As the head of state noted, next year we plan to hold a meeting of the intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation with Serbia.
Five people's reforms initiated by the head of state are aimed at creating institutional conditions for business development and Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world, "said B. Aybek.
for example, the "fund for financial support for agriculture" ak - under the program "agriculture," "agricultural credit corporation" - through the system of credit partnerships, "kazagrofinance" - under the program of leasing agricultural equipment.
texts of laws are published in the press.
products are certified and distributed only in the Mangistau region.
It is noted that a. Bekbolatov is a student of North Kazakhstan State University named after M. Kozybaev.
Chairman of the Board of the Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
microcredit is provided to villagers under various credit programs, including those financed from the national budget, benefits are provided.
The Contracting Center is engaged in the compilation of a single register of domestic manufacturers, the issue of obtaining draft tender documentation, and the examination of the technical specification of the purchased goods and services.
Tkhristea expressed confidence that thanks to the balanced foreign policy of Kazakhstan, mutually beneficial relations with the European Union will develop in the future.
the sustainable development of Kazakhstan depends on the well-being of every citizen.
our country is as individualized as possible not only by its business qualities, but also by its moral qualities.
Kazakhstan, as an active participant in initiatives on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against international terrorism, makes a great contribution to its work.
the next stage - in the 1970s, Nursultan Nazarbayev, working as a party worker at the plant, began to invite young people to the city.
According to the Secretary of State, Kazakhstan has achieved significant success in providing services to the population for the use of modern communication technologies.
This fall, it is planned to process 100-120 thousand tons of sugar beet at the coke sugar plant.
Chairman of the Board of the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture nurlan sarybayev will take part in the press conference.
Kazakhstanis will never forget that Pakistan was one of the first to recognize the independence of our country. the people of kazakhstan will never forget pakistan is one of the first countries recognized the independence of ours .
The President of Kazakhstan also announced his readiness to give lectures to university students and faculty if possible.
Deputy of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation V. Aagaev wished the President of Kazakhstan good, peace and well-being.
Project Manager - Arthur Nigmetov, Director of the Center for Media Technologies.
representatives of agribusiness recommended that the commission prepare questions on the harmonization of national law and the procedure for administration after the implementation of the decisions of the EP.
It is worth noting that this agreement between these two largest banks will contribute to the mutually beneficial exchange of experience and the development of a system of housing construction savings in the country.
Yesimov was invited to draw a vision of the development of the city after five years and a plan for the development of the city for the Olympiad.
More than 20 types of services are provided free of charge, including the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of entrepreneurs, support for business development, and training in the basics of entrepreneurship.
it determines the directions of development not only of the capital, but also of the whole republic for many years.
at the meeting d.akhmetov reported to the head of state on the socio-economic situation, the implementation of state programs, as well as on the development of the agricultural sector in the region.
builders have created favorable conditions for work and timely rest.
The best violinist of the festival will be determined by the rector of the Kazakh National University of Arts, honorary head of the Kazakhstan Academy of Music of Labor - Ayman Musakhozhaev, Isakadze - Shpilman (Germany), professor of the Estonian Academy of Music and the Helsinki Academy of Sibelius Mari Tampers-homeless and others.
after modernization, the plant will provide high-quality clean water not only to the city of whitewash, but also to the oil, Karak and dead end areas.
coffee peasant families "easily gain strength," only forward. "
Recall that this summer 101,471 children will rest in the camps of Akmola region.
The Kazakh diplomat noted that the joint implementation of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to create an Astana international financial center based on the model of the Dubai international financial center in the near future will give a new impetus to bilateral cooperation.
strategic planning requires the involvement of talented professionals in the public service and maximum transparency.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan iid mb, the future "should be based on an innovative and practical direction, fully focused on targeted training for the projects of the Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps. "
Recall that today there are 215 service centers, where 2 thousand 97 specialists work.
Kazakhstan pavilion EXPO-2015 in Milan served 150 volunteers from Kazakhstan who speak Italian and English.
in the fair program - employer presentations, testing, professional interviews and networking - an informal presentation of top management of companies with graduates of the international future scholarship.
for sending a person to work without concluding an employment contract, violation of the conditions for concluding a collective agreement, as well as the conditions for remuneration of work.
the main prize is a rental subscription in one of the capital's fitness clubs.
Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan albert rau and Director of the Legal Department of Kazakhstan aidar aliakparov will take part in the press conference.
In addition, on behalf of the republican headquarters of the green country, students are paid an additional salary of 17 thousand tenge.
participation of the UK in EXPO-2017 will allow it to demonstrate its achievements in the development and implementation of high-resource and energy-saving technologies.
How much are the interests of citizens provided for in the development programs of the capital?
After taking the military oath in front of the soldier, real military service of the army will begin.
state coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan
As part of the barrier-free future project, we accepted 4 disabled people.
As noted in the report, the quality of the old heating line is worn out, 70-80% is damaged by the pipeline, which caused many emergencies.
representatives of foreign delegations also visited the laboratory of the Kazakhstan Institute of Metrology and the unified state fund of normative technical documents of the Kazakhstan Institute of Standardization and Metrology.
As part of the development fund's own program under the Development-Assistance program, 6 current and potential entrepreneurs with disabilities received sponsorship in the 1st quarter of 2015.
And today in the capital and in many regions of Kazakhstan open heart operations are carried out.
Governor of South Kazakhstan region visited the industrial zone "south" and the special economic zone "south."
The heads of state also exchanged views on topical international issues on the agenda, including the situation in southeastern Ukraine and the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
another problem is the obsolescence of networks.	we are monitoring and controlling over the situation ,  he said at a briefing in the ccs .
It should be noted that here animated programs for children, more than 60 free creative workshops and musical thematic programs for children and adults will be organized for festival guests.
I hope that the Iranian bander in the Persian Gulf will contribute to the intensification of trade between our countries, which directly exit from Kazakhstan to the Abbas port. i believe that direct railway access to 'bandar abbas' Iranian port will promote the growth of trade turnover between the two countries.
The participation of 60 countries of the Eurasian continent in the project will cover 4 billion people. it is predicted that the participation in the project will cover more than four billion people , strengthen the economy of dozens of countries , and ensure a balanced , beneficial economic cooperation .
in the territory of Kazakhstan there are 9 states in which representatives of more than 140 nationalities and religions live.
The Dutch Association of Entrepreneurs, taking into account the interest in further deepening trade and economic relations with Kazakhstan, paid special attention to the investment part of the fair, investment benefits aimed at supporting foreign investors from the Government of Kazakhstan.
A. Ayymbetov noted that he successfully passed all the necessary exams.
The Department of Industry, together with the parties, experts and the business community, is planned to consider ways to jointly solve problematic issues in the field of steel within the framework of the eeo.
The event covered issues related to the introduction of changes in the system of metrology and accreditation from 2013 to 2015, carried out at enterprises.
optimizing the courts, improving the quality of justice, "said the chairman of the appellate judicial board for civil and administrative cases of the regional court.
We note that the entire set of open data is placed in a machine-readable format and is available through ari, which is acceptable for the development of applications and services.
The Kazakh diplomat called for an advantage in connection with the launch of an important transcontinental transport facility and border trade infrastructure.
Speaking about other topical issues, the mayor focused on the work on attracting tourists and guests to the international exhibition EXPO-2017, and also noted that close relations between the national company Expo-2017 and city structures should be established in this direction.
Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Almaty and West Kazakhstan regions are leading in this program.
plant produces gypsum materials, dry mixtures and gypsum board.
it is also planned to visit the leading companies of the country in order to popularize the portal.
there are hundreds of universities in the UK, but the state is not at the forefront in any of the industries. in britain , there are hundreds of leading universities , but the country doesn 't dominate by any of the industrial fields .
children of this group include street teenagers, children from disadvantaged families, migrant families, children who are constantly lagging behind, children working on farm sites.
the jury included judges of the aiba of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
And meritocracy is the height of worthy citizens who have all the necessary conditions for growth in position, this is the official model of public service, "said A. Mukhamedzhanova.
Competitions consisted of three stages: inspection of military and fire equipment, alarm collection and departure to the scene, military operations.
The purpose of the event is to familiarize representatives of state bodies of Central Asian states with the intermediate mechanisms of the international organization for managing migration threats, best international experience, the impact of emergency situations on the migration sphere and the creation of a regional network of contact tulgalars.
As President Pavlopoulos noted, Kazakhstan and Greece have high understanding and relations laid down in the agreement.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew the attention of the participants of the session to the situation in Afghanistan.
emphasis is placed on assessing the completion of such projects and their impact on the lives of the younger generation.
Health Road - 2015 as part of the republican action on August 24 and 27, 2015, mobile medical complexes will visit the village of turmagambet of the Karmakshin district of the Kyzylorda region, a water pump of the Kazalinsky district and 4 villages of the Shieli district, as well as remote villages of the Zhanakorgan district.
a logistics complex with a production base of a multifunctional wholesale and individual trade and logistics complex and a multidisciplinary complex for the production of food products of the World of Cereals LLP is being implemented.
The Committee considered the draft law "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the return of people."
Recall that the program of business transformation of the National Wealth Fund "Samruk-kazyna" and all its portfolio companies is the head of state n.n. with Nazarbayev in October 2014.
the first is aimed at bringing the activities of the antimonopoly body into line with international standards, the second involves strengthening the institution of a business ombudsman in order to protect the interests of entrepreneurs.
Recall that in the cities of Aktobe, Uralsk, Atyrau, with the support of the akimats of the regions, meetings were held with the participation of investors working in the format of a round table.
support for social projects based on improving the lives of disabled people, people with age and other special groups of the population is a priority in the activities of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Determining and calculating the forecast of major solid mineral reserves.
In this regard, the historian and. Medesheva noted that the paintings are not used as an addition to the interior.
The Chairman of the Almaty regional branch of the Turkish ethnocultural association noted that the program documents developed in the country show concrete ways to solve the tasks.
The purpose of the event is to develop proposals for the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the production of organic goods," as well as an exchange of experience and views on green technologies.
The exhibition will last until August 27.
Last year, a decision was made to reconstruct this stadium, design and estimate documentation is currently being developed.
Also, the head of Kazavtodor spoke about the latest legislative initiatives aimed at implementing 58 steps of the National Plan - 100 specific steps.
the number of States parties to the Convention would increase in the future and bilateral agreements would not be required with the newly acceding countries.
in our case, the sme should be adapted to the internal consumer, while it should stimulate import substitution. smes in our conditions should focus on domestic consumer and there stimulus for import substitution must work .
It is noted that the congress was attended by representatives of more than 250 companies and enterprises from South American countries, land regional authorities and business circles, as well as diplomatic corps registered in Argentina.
As part of the judicial reform, we will strive to strengthen the confidence of foreign investors in the open resolution of disputes in our country, "he said.
In the region, work is carried out in 9 areas in accordance with the program for the formation of a healthy lifestyle and the prevention of diseases.
for the military, walks were organized in the library and familiarized themselves with the activities of the library.
Director of the Department of Public Relations of the Astana company expo-2017 Sergey Kuyanov noted the importance of today's event for the development of the expo project and noted that this is a practical initiative of partnerships with the national carrier.
Akim also got acquainted with the project "smart payments," which will provide a new mechanism for paying utilities on the portal smart.astana.kz.
According to the ambassador, Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan can become effective partners in various areas of the economy.
in particular, following the results of the meeting, "The main directions of the EAEU's international activities for 2015-2016" and "Approaches to the development of trade and economic cooperation with the main eeo partners for the medium term" were signed, documents on the quantitative composition of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission, etc.
these funds will be used by investments, and we use them to create the main transport highways leaving the capital to the south, east, north.
the three most competitive countries in the world: Switzerland (1), Singapore (2) and Aksh (3).
As a result of the conference, a draft resolution of proposals sent to state government bodies and the national chamber of entrepreneurs was adopted.
for example, there is a cross-border train along the Kazakhstan silk road.	karaganda , kokshetau , pavlodar , especially borovoye will attract tourists .	0,75
According to experts, the main markets for products are the Siberian region of the Russian Federation, central Asia (Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan), Afghanistan and India.	plus there is the siberian part of russia - there is no glass factories , and we have already started negotiations with wholesalers of glass products ,  chairman of the board of the holding " baiterek " kuandik bishimbayev said .
we laid the foundation for the successful implementation of the second five-year plan.
The President of Vietnam expressed confidence that the entry into force of this agreement will create new opportunities and ensure the development of the two countries.
this project is a reflection in the modern practice of creating favorable conditions for schoolchildren in the typical administrative building of Astana.
In turn, R. Zhoshybayev thanked the Romanian side for supporting Kazakhstan in holding EXPO-2017.
sports competition takes place in Minsk on the basis of the military academy of Belarus and will end on July 12.
For example, the Jordanian transnational pharmaceutical company hikma is interested in introducing in the country the production of drugs for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and orchid diseases and the production of antibiotics in Almaty.
you face the challenge of developing the State in a globalized world. you are to develop the country , in the context of globalization you have to excel to maintain stability .
this is the first shot of young soldiers with real combat weapons in military service.
in Semey, it is planned to build an agricultural portal worth $20 million under an agreement with Iranian investors.	the plant will process the meat of cattle and small cattle , and also will produce canned meat and meat products according to the standard  halal . "
The features of the new site include its convenient design and navigation, the design of the site for full visibility on tablets and smartphones, the possibility of sending a letter to the head of state as part of the "letter to the president" function.
calls by the congress participants for the persistent rejection of force methods in resolving political contradictions, stopping the growth of mistrust in the modern world, ending mutual sanctions, as well as the search for new mechanisms of interaction between spiritual and political figures for peace and sustainable development.	at the same time , the declaration promotes the dialogue between religious and political leaders on the principles of equality , justice , mutual respect and peaceful coexistence .	0,75
Following the results of the competition, 4 books and one collection will be published, which will be sent to the country's libraries for free.	thus , the contest will release four books and one book that will be sent free to the school library .	0,75
Every year, we prepare about 400 men's suits, supply finished products to the Shymkent and Almaty markets.	every day , we produce up to 400 men 's suits , and deliver them to the markets of shymkent and almaty .	0,75
this will increase the ability of Kazakhstani small businesses to purchase goods and services of transnational corporations, Kazakhstani enterprises seeking to increase indicators on local content.
To date, 325 and 544 Kazakh facilities have been prepared in the region, 60% of educational and cultural facilities and 66 healthcare facilities are ready for the heating season.
Within the framework of the main directions, the main priority types of economic activities and the list of goods necessary for industrial cooperation within the union, as well as the procedure for consulting, will be determined, the statement said.
the bill also defines the competence of the government, the national bank, the authorized body in the field of trafficking in precious metals and precious stones and establishes responsibility for violations of legislation in this area.
in the new plan of the nation, special attention is paid to the creation of a professional state apparatus.
the country is implementing large-scale institutional reforms, state programs aimed at industrial-innovative and infrastructure development.
additional documents of organizations of the Turkic Academy and the Turkic Culture and Heritage Foundation were signed, reports of the Turkic Academy were heard and approved.
He also exchanged views on the policy of protecting biodiversity, atmospheric air and fossil wealth, got acquainted with the environmental policy of Kazakhstan.
the parties also identified promising areas of interaction between the business community of the two countries and agreed to continue work on further deepening of comprehensive cooperation.
- 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms - on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on access to information, aimed at the implementation of the national plan and bringing legislation in line with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On access to information"
The conditions for growing such plants are also defined in the Zhambyl region, "said S. Susetov.
According to him, the lifting of sanctions will provide great opportunities for the development of the Kazakh economy.
the judge in the process should think only about the case under consideration, "said A. Sarenbaev.
if we respect and appreciate every word of the Constitution, then we will receive great achievements, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in relation to world prices to hydrocarbons and the introduction of inflationary restrictions in the country, the oil and gas industry will be aimed at providing the domestic market, "said the head of state.
in addition, the junior sergeant Lyudmila Gubareva won the nomination "Best Warrior Girl"
placing curbs, placing traffic lights, installing road signs as part of major repairs.
in metallurgy, traditional filling and filling with non-ferrous fuel are coke, which is consumed as production energy.
Considering yesterday's situation (inflation targeting), there is every reason to say that the situation in our economy is slightly better, firstly, jobs remain, and secondly, our domestic producers have the opportunity to compete in the market, "said E. Bail.
In connection with the need, products are imported in stages, "said P. Dyskov, acting head of the Department of Agriculture of the region.
In this regard, the preamble is amended to ensure inter-ethnic harmony in the country on the basis of the values ​ ​ enshrined in the institutional reform of the "nation of a united future."
we suggested that the games be held around our athletes, which is very convenient for eating and living, no one has made such an offer yet.
k. shamshidinova noted that the graduation of children with poor academic performance is reduced.
In turn, he noted that the Vietnamese government, on the basis of an agreement between the EAEU countries and Vietnam, is soon considering the issue of visa-free circulation for citizens of Kazakhstan.
within this world championship congress of the international federation of judo is held.
The responsibility and activities of N. Nazarbayev cannot be overestimated, "said R. Bogdasarov.
The programme aims at improving children's nutrition, growth and development, and health.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, students became lieutenant and joined the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
Of course, this will be a very difficult path, which will require political will, requires the ability to find ways to the threats of our time, requires tolerance and wisdom of the people.
additional garden and sports events will be built here.
of these, 40 projects (496.9 billion tenge, 7 thousand jobs) - industrialization maps.
these schools will not only remove a very diverse knitted color, but will also become accessible to all segments of the population.
On July 29, the Committee of the Kazakh application will hold a press briefing, which will be attended by deputy chairman of the application committee Andrei hooks, prize-winner of the Sochi Olympiad, young figure skater Karina Uzurova, Paralympic athlete flaming toplabaeva and president of the national Paralympic committee zhulat orazbayev.
but our people have not lost confidence in the Allas.
Today, Kazpost will issue a new postal sign for the 550th anniversary, this is a very primitive measure of support from the leadership of the kazpost and the ministry to show the history of the Kazakh Khanate to the whole world, "said B. Saparbayev.
aa. Idrissov noted that the situation of tolerance and trust in Kazakhstan has become the face of our country and the success of socio-economic development is realized, first of all, thanks to interethnic peace and interfaith harmony in Kazakhstan, and to support this agreement, President of Kazakhstan N.A. is an important priority of Nazarbayev's foreign policy.
In accordance with the memorandum, a mobile team of specialists from the State Pension Center, the Public Service Center and the White Kazpost was organized.
in the third direction - assessment of the impact of programs on small and medium-sized businesses.
One of the new projects is the creation of a Russian-American bilateral graduate degree in non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
As follows from the message, the head of the region, Erik Sultanov, got acquainted with the progress of work on the construction sites of residential buildings.
The young entrepreneur says that within a month "mahi-tea" can be produced here, all equipment is imported.
state symbols are a special value of our sovereignty, the basis of the independence of our country and the unity of the people.
provision of production by qualified specialists and effective financing depends on qualitative forecasts for long-term personnel. ensuring of the production by qualified specialists and effective investment fully depend on the quality of the forecast of staffing needs in the long term .
I am glad that five more certified specialists have joined us, who now need the kazatomprom. i am glad , that there are another five certified professionals , whom kazatomprom is required today .
In general, the real estate fund is actively involved in the development of the regions.
At the same time, the head of state noted that the requirements for candidates from judging are tightened, as well as judges who meet the requirements can offer themselves.
It is worth noting that work is underway in East Kazakhstan region to strengthen energy infrastructure on the message of the head of state "bright path - way to the future."
Chairman of the Union of Engineers and Architects of the Turkic World Ilyas Demirji noted the significant successes of Kazakhstan and emphasized the leading role of our country in the Central Asian region.
When considering civil cases, we always pay attention to this law.
Recall that the United Nations Development Program in Kazakhstan, together with the Center for Legal Policy Research and the Center for the Study of Public Opinion, conducted an independent study on the satisfaction of the activities of the courts of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the head of state noted that the state apparatus of Kazakhstan will have a clean reputation, which will work exclusively in the interests of the state and people.
Today, Kazakhstan, like other countries, is competing to attract investment.
peers of the constitution of the Mangistau region received cash certificates and memorable gifts.
the parties discussed the current state and prospects of cooperation in the field of energy and tourism.
Major General Daulet Ospanov took part in the opening ceremony.
According to its results, the strongest army athletes in paramilitary all-around, officer triathlon, shooting from service weapons, army hand-to-hand combat and commanding competitions and doubles will be determined.
Mr. Kailholz expressed confidence in the further development of interethnic relations.
its length is 1000 km.
he also wished firefighters success in the service.
"This is my fantasy, born on the basis of traditional songs of Japan and Kazakhstan.
he is dynamically moving up, confirming his skill with repeated victories at major world tournaments.
they train at field tests, own ak-74 weapons, air rifles, put on a combined arms defense complex, save the wounded and prove to the commanders that they can master any combat mission.
The bill was designed to provide a unified approach to the legal regulation of these types of arbitration, aimed at consolidating two special laws regulated by international arbitration and the arbitration court.
As it became known to Kommersant, now all residents of Kazakhstan have the opportunity to purchase an electronic train ticket through qiwi terminals, located in many shopping, entertainment, public places throughout the republic.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of the bilateral and regional agenda, and also assessed the prospects for cooperation.
B. According to Talasbaev, with the introduction of new workshops, the production capacity of the enterprise will increase 5 times.
this is the most significant event in the history of our country, the highest indicator.
circus art is appreciated by such artists as the director of the capital's circus, the will of the gendarmes, the director of the circus of the republic Sakha Sergey rastorguev, and the director of the Almaty city Kazakh circus.
today the strategic partner of our event is the "casmedia center" - this is a bright platform of the future, and this will become a tradition.
they are proud of this country. "
As the head of the association noted, in the conditions when the national bank supports the course, investors are an unconventional step towards the market.
participants discussed ways to reform the judicial system, modernize law enforcement agencies, combat corruption, strengthen the public service, as well as their effective implementation.
also purchased equipment for determining grain quality.
at the end of the forum, we plan to conclude a memorandum on mutual cooperation.
and creating conditions for entrepreneurs through taxation and improved customs administration.
During the conference, one of the active members of Croatian public figures, chairman and mufti of the Islamic center Aziz Hasanovic spoke about the congress of world and traditional religions. public figure in croatia , chairman of the islamic centre and the mufti aziz khasanovich noted the role of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in his report .
museum material eventually replenished with the history of the village of aksu since 1929, and a reconstructed museum of "military and labor glory" was inaugurated.
At the same time, trade and economic agreements of Romanian entrepreneurs were concluded in relation to Kazakhstan.
More than a thousand people are aimed at training, retraining and advanced training at the expense of the state.
Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen public control, "said the akim of the region.
in accordance with the technical characteristics of the plant, it is designed to perform especially energy-intensive work in agriculture, including in sowing grain and other crops, harvesting fodder products, collecting root crops, as well as in performing work related to the transportation of goods.
their share in the volume of industry of the region is 13% (on average in Kazakhstan - 7.9%), manufacturing industry - 27.8% (on average in Kazakhstan - 12.9%).
During the meeting, the participants will discuss the current situation for the delivery of textbooks and textbooks in the region, "the statement said.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 27.05.2015 opened 120 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 68.6 billion tenges, from them charge for legalization of money is withdrawn from the savings account with payment in the budget of 2.7 billion tenges for the sum of 26.9 billion tenges. according to the national bank of kazakhstan , as of 27.05.2015 second-tier banks opened 120 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 68.6 billion tenge , including withdrawn from savings accounts , 26.9 billion tenge , with the payment to the budget 2 , 7 billion tenge fee for legalization of money .
for the event hp Head of the Department of Sociology of Eurasian National University named after Gumilev, Doctor of Sociological Sciences Aigul Zabirova and Doctor of Social Sciences.
in general, we do not observe an extreme situation in Kazakhstan compared with other countries in cases of suicide of children.
thus, the summer playground allowed children to continue to develop their musical, intellectual, cognitive abilities.
On University games they will become the talented judoist, the master of sports, the champion of Kazakhstan and the international tournaments on judo.
it is difficult to find the necessary funds for risky projects, and for projects that quickly pay off.
The three-day fee from July 8 to 10 consists of theoretical and practical parts.
During the working trip, the head of the region visited the Hantau cement plant.
within the framework of the hermitage days, lectures, master classes, signing agreements in the museum sphere will be held.
The egov application is available on ios and android platforms, the number of downloads of the application exceeded 180 thousand.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister announced the principles that should be based on the creation of a national plan.
How do you assess the measures taken by Kazakhstan in this regard?
a joint statement on the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has also been signed.
practical knowledge of the state language at the business level, taking into account prosecutorial activities for entering the business language environment when implementing a pilot innovative project. a pilot project for an innovative immersion in a professional language environment was implemented .
In his report, the head of the Kazakh delegation drew attention to the need to strengthen unified security and prevent the rupture of the ecu security network in accordance with the spiritual features of the Astana declaration.	in his speech , the head of the kazakh delegation drew attention to the need of strengthening indivisible and comprehensive security and preventing dividing lines in the osce area , in accordance with the spirit of the astana declaration .	0,76
taking advantage of this situation, it is necessary to expand the market for products and constantly modernize production.	in this situation , you find opportunities to expand our market , conduct ongoing modernization .	0,76
since we worked with our mother, these words are preserved in my memory, "says the shamshia escara.
the bill defines an authorized body with the main powers to implement the state's anti-corruption policy.
As Chairman of the Transport Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Asaubayev noted, the priority of the transport logistics course of the Republic of Kazakhstan is integration into the international transportation system.
in particular, in order to create a highly qualified staff of law enforcement officials, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Prosecutor's Office" is amended to provide for the creation of an academy of law enforcement agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office.
every day I meet with children, regional colleagues, exchange views.
The final of the National Jubilee Family Competition is timed to coincide with this significant date.
for a long time, social facilities and residential buildings were heated by electric light.
There are more than 300,000 Unistrim service points worldwide.
Following the results of the trip, an agreement on cooperation in the field of education and scientific research was signed between the academies.
The narrow monetary base, i.e. the monetary base without taking into account the time deposits of second-tier banks in the national bank, expanded by 19.6% to 4173.2 billion tenge.
and during this period, Kazakhstan's investments in Serbia amounted to two million dollars.
From the expert's point of view, one of the obstacles we face is not ability, but jobs.
We are glad that our leader began his career here, "said Tatyana Kurinaya.
The light industry of Kazakhstan has been operating for many years after the independence of the country. the light industry of kazakhstan works with the wto since 1992 .
In addition, the head of state recalled the main values ​ ​ of the main law of the state.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that the registration of all offenses contributed to a decrease in the number of serious crimes.
In his speech, the head of state told the forum participants about the history of the formation of independent Kazakhstan and the economic policy pursued by the state today.
Director of the Association of Entrepreneurs of Karaganda region reported on the region.
It is noted that the action will last until the end of October.
- what is the advantage of truth?
The head of state instructed Nur Otan to mobilize Kazakhstanis to implement five institutional reforms and the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, ensure effective monitoring of the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program, as well as contribute to maintaining unity and harmony in society and conduct active work with the population on all emerging issues, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
this event is held in the armed forces of Kazakhstan once every three years and is determined by the size, professionalism, moral and business qualities of each officer and his prospects for further military service.
there was also an exchange of views on the most relevant issues related to common interests.
Despite the situation in the world economy, we are making joint plans for the future.
we expedited the registration work and received the relevant documents.
Kazakh singer received the main prize on the summer stage of the amphitheater and a special prize "lira."
in particular, in accordance with the 86 step of the National Plan, priority will be given to the creation of regional cultural and tourist clusters.
for the first time at these training camps, in cooperation with the units of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, anti-sabotage security classes, company-tactical exercises with aviation of the air defense forces were held, together with the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, fire safety classes were held, "said Colonel Korymov, head of the operational department of the headquarters of the airmobile troops.
opening the conference, Chairman of the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Mongolia noted that the conference is the first event, including women of two neighboring countries, and expressed gratitude to the Kazakh side for the initiative.
citizens of two flights will not be able to breathe.
unfortunately, so far neither international organizations nor individual States have been able to settle them.
During the visit, the tourist can get acquainted with traditional animal husbandry, taste national dishes and walk along the mountain gorges.
By order of the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated April 15, 1998 No. 28, the rector of the Kazakh National Music Academy was appointed People's Artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan, professor aimak musakhodzhaeva.
B. Saparbayev noted that the opening of 10 large and 30 small and medium-sized enterprises is provided in the region with the help of investors.
information received from entities and feedback from business entities, thus, favorable conditions for doing business will be created in each region of the country.
representative of our business in Kazakhstan (OOO Mazda Motor Rus).
to that end, the pan-European security system should be improved.
One of the positive strategies for the development of the bank is the belief in self-reliance and resources, the use of the best achievements of science, stimulation of the development of domestic production, the long-term formation of a cooperative in cross-border markets, taking into account the placement of imported resources, deep processing of grain. optimal strategy of agribusiness development should lay its account with own strength and resources , the use of the best achievements of science , encourage of the development of domestic production , as well as alignment of cooperation on cross-border markets chains with the substitution of imported resources and the development of deep processing of grain .
According to the general, such memories of our compatriots cause pride in our country and Kazakhstan as a whole.
senators and company representatives also discussed job conservation.
Participants expressed the slogans "we are against corruption.
the anthem is an important sound order, which is key to the effective socio-political consolidation and ethnocultural balance of citizens of the country.
after the official meeting, the expedition members, employees of the district department of internal policy, guides, local elders visited the Magzhan Zhumabaev Memorial Museum.
Your initiatives to organize an international congress of leaders and representatives of world religious communities are very important for deepening and developing mutual understanding and dialogue between representatives of various religions, "the letter says.
in a week, all teenagers who scored 50 or more points will be sent to military educational institutions in different regions of the country where they are selected, "the statement said.
each of them reduced the tolerance by 30%.
flooring with a diameter of 9 meters, a gymnastic wall, a gymnastic ring, a wicker rope, a wrestling dummy, as well as wall mirrors (3.0x1.5m) are laid in the hall.
At the end of the year, 53 km are planned to be commissioned.
then the President of Kazakhstan set the task to be among 30.
we, as representatives of the metropolitan circus, cannot develop only ourselves, so we invite guests to the festival.
patriotism and patriotism of Kazakhstan is peace of mind in relation to the country and to its country.
In accordance with the agreement, Kazakh and Chinese academies will conduct joint research, conferences in the field of energy and the environment.
According to their model, military personnel provide young people with the benefit of such charitable events and help each other, "said Lieutenant General Bakhytzhan Ertaev.
the strategic goal of state policy in the field of religion is one - to establish a balance between the interests of the noble state and religious associations. the strategic goal of the state policy in the sphere of religion is creation of the most optimal balance between the interests of the secular state and religious associations of the country , building cooperation with all denominations , officially operating in the legal field of the country .
The press conference will be attended by the director of the Institute of Eurasian Integration, the chairman of the Congress of Political Scientists.
not many who successfully overcame such a distance and won prizes.
As I reported at the UN rostrum, with the approval of the UN, a world network should be created to combat terrorist groups. as i have said from the rostrum of the united nations , in order to fight , we need to create a global network to combat a terrorist organization with the approval of the un .
The festive event, in addition to the Kazakh delegation, was attended by the business environment of the state of California, representatives of American gardens and the Kazakh diaspora, as well as the chairman of the subcommittee on Russia and Eurasia of the Committee on International Affairs of the House of Representatives in Congress.
According to the regional department of economy and finance, the gross regional product in the first half of 2015 amounted to 1 trillion 386 billion tenge, growth compared to the same period last year amounted to 3.9%.
The memorandum provides for the development of mutually beneficial relations on competitive supplies of Kazakhstani uranium to the world market.
breeding animals are young animals acquired in 2014 from cattle brought from Australia under the Kazagrofinance financial leasing program to the north-agro n LLP farm.
The event, organized on the basis of public-private partnership, is aimed at expanding and strengthening the homogeneous cultural space, developing national cultural traditions, spiritual values, raising patriotism, as well as developing national equestrian games, the press service of the Governor's Office of Almaty region reports.
T. As Nikolic noted, Kazakhstan supports cooperation between Serbia and international organizations.
The goal is to activate the activities of individuals and legal entities, replenish the Kazakhstan market with high-quality, competitive products, promote quality ideas among the population.
in this case, journalists can use shared information in various types of reports, statistics, and so on.
Within the framework of the parliamentary forum, the Kazakh delegation met with the Prime Minister and noted that in the context of the development of cooperation between the alliance and Kazakhstan - ensuring global and regional security.
I try to perform these images without twisting, "says Oksana Skorik.
according to him, the history of modern Kazakhstan cannot be imagined without the role and personality of the head of state.
Since June, a second group of ten people began classes.
During the visit, the presentation of a documentary film dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate at the tribeca film studio at the University of Washington George Washington and Robert de niro in New York will take place.
As part of the seminar, Director General Kazgzmi announced that it is planned to exchange experience in the field of cultural studies between scientific institutions of the two countries.
According to the regional department of statistics, the number of employees of small and medium-sized businesses as of July 1 of this year compared to the same period last year amounted to 132.607 people, or 102.6%.
Each guest of the region visits an ethnoaul.
potatoes fell by 15% in Almaty from 104 to 88 tenge/kg and by 13% from 80 to 70 tenge/kg in weights.
production is covered by modern technologies, where specialists with engineering and technical education and highly skilled workers work.
By the end of the year, the company intends to achieve planned production volumes (34-38 thousand ounces).
After the Baikonur cosmodrome is on Kazakh soil, we will be among the space states.
with the border supervision department, he is fighting drug trafficking, increasing the protective nature of passports and protecting information contained in biometric documents, "said R. Zhoshybayev.
Also, as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, the deerk film "Rise in the Air" about the two-time hero of the Soviet Union, honored pilot of the USSR, Major General Talgat Bigeldinov was shown in the Ivanovo House of Nationalities.
The focus of the shu is stability and security. the focus of the shanghai cooperation organization is the issues of stability and security in each of the member states and in the region as a whole .
The International Kazakh-Turkish University named after the skin of ahmet yassaui (hktu) takes an active part in the implementation of presidential reforms in the field of higher education. In order to implement 78 steps, an intergovernmental plenipotentiary council of 10 members was created in Khktu, the president said.
To realize this goal, we invite an association of experts, invite foreign experts and specialists to create test laboratories and an academic environment.
this item, along with the service hierarchy, will take into account the real workload of the employee, the strategic goals and tasks of the department, "said A. Shaimova.
Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria tz. during the visit of the Tsacheva to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
From March 16 to June 29 of this year, mobilization groups covered 1,375 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 2,955 times.
Adam's intellectual achievements are the first initiative of his dream of handling science.
The commission focused on the prospects for the development of the transport and logistics component, including the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway line and the connection of the Islamabad-Tehran-Istanbul railway, as well as Kazakhstan's participation in other transport projects in Pakistan.
during the exchange of views on this issue, our interests were again in one place, "said N. Nazarbayev.
All of them showed great interest and expressed readiness to take part in the upcoming exhibition.
the mass media of Kazakhstan through their activities form a common Kazakh identity, strengthen patriotism and unite society. kazakh mass media forms a unified kazakh identity , patriotism , strengthens and consolidates our society .
It is noted that every resident of the district recognizes the family of winners.
According to the expert, first of all, it is necessary to involve the population in making appropriate decisions on the formation of the reporting state.
on waste management, the environmental code and the laws "On local self-government of the Republic of Kazakhstan," "On public procurement," "On public procurement."
the parties discussed the current state of observance of fundamental human rights and freedoms and issues of corporate and social responsibility.
Imre Laslotsky stressed the importance of further development of friendly relations with Kazakhstan and stated that he remains a friend of the Kazakhstani people, although his diplomatic mission is completed.
in the territory of the East Kazakhstan region, three poachers were detained during the raid by employees of the territorial inspection of the Forestry and Wildlife Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Last year, 3.0 million tenge was allocated and used for the construction of the external and internal engineering system of the industrial zone.
in addition, a memorandum was signed with eurasia trans team.
The constituent assembly was held in various formats and aroused great interest in society, in the media of the two states.
this course is fixed.
The event was also attended by members of the governments of Kazakhstan and Russia, regional leaders.
that is, quartz sands, dolamite and limestone are used in the area of ​ ​ the island.
In addition, e. Dossaev noted that "the plan of urgent measures will be supplemented by a mechanism to prevent an increase in prices for socially significant goods, compensation for term deposits of individuals and investors of residential construction bank."
After general physical training in Almaty region girls continued training in the capital.
It is worth noting that the role of abai is impossible not to evaluate as a poet, classical literary work.
the plot tells about the life of a Kazakh poet, enlightener, philosopher, and his student Aidar, who survived the tragedy due to the fact that his lover and mistress began to add poison to the drink.
Finance Minister B. Sultanov noted a significant decrease in budget revenues.
because during this year the necessary legal framework was prepared.
expanding partnerships with the European Union, further deepening is one of the priority areas of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, "he said. dyachenko.
Under the terms of the competition, 10 prizes will receive grants from the Chinese University of Mining and Technology.
As it became known from the message, the meeting was held in the form of a video conference with the participation of state authorities, business communities and economic specialists of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
the program we have chosen today is closely related to the modernization of Kazakhstan.
According to the chief cardiologist of Kazakhstan, the national scientific cardiac surgery center is the most experienced in the world, thanks to which the center can receive leading specialists from European clinics involved in heart treatment or transplantation.
In addition, before the start of the school year, we will prepare training programs for advanced training for teachers introducing elements of child safety.
and the legal authority for the participation of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs in support of the local public-private partnership project.
everything is on schedule.
The second important area is the adoption of comprehensive measures to strengthen trade, economic, industrial and investment cooperation between Chinese and other member states.
a discussion took place at the end of the seminar.
there are also places for science lovers and artists.
At the same time, he noted that this publication is primarily invaluable for young readers.
In addition, we want to add another important line for the areas at the top.
The coordinator of the jack/budb energy efficiency project detailed the work done in an exclusive interview with strategy2050.kz.
these efforts have made it possible to diversify the directions and significantly increase the volume of trade with other countries.
The first object of the working group was the reinforcement plant Eurasian Caspian Steel.
now this is only a project, so far I can't say that this is a ready-made mechanism. it is just a draft plan , not a ready mechanism .
During the visit to the Pilsen, representatives of the international choir performed in one of the largest swaths of the European cultural capital.
It is noted that in September in Zachagansk it is planned to open a kindergarten for 250 places due to private investment.
It is noted that this year, as part of a visit to Semipalatinsk, the head of state visited the N.Nazarbayev Abai Museum, noting that "we must convey to the people the path of miracle, this is invaluable value."
President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev's international anti-nuclear initiatives, including the "atomic" project, celebrated in September this year during the 70th UN General Assembly in New York, as well as Kazakhstan's common efforts on massive nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, were demonstrated at a conference in support of German socio-political groups.
in particular, in connection with the 70th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and statements on the fight against international terrorism, the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster.
it is proposed to carry out intra-corporate transfers outside the quota on the basis of preferential conditions, preferential conditions of free permission of categories 2 and 3, reducing the requirements for the maintenance of local personnel to 50%, as well as in the first category (managers and their deputies) provide for the removal of restrictions, "said B. Nurymbetov.
investments in this project amounted to 3 billion 200 million tenge.
because we are interested in reducing transport costs, which, in turn, will favorably affect the cost of Kazakhstan's goods exported to foreign markets and offered to the domestic market.
the main purpose of this is to ensure unhindered transit of goods from Asia to Europe and on the way back. the idea is to provide free transit of goods from asia to europe and back .
According to him, a number of companies operate Kazakhstanis and Koreans.
The interlocutors noted the importance of strengthening cooperation on issues related generally to strategic issues in ensuring international and regional security.
seventh, the elimination of excessive clarification of the application of dispositive norms in the regulation of relations, "the minister emphasized.
In addition, cooperation is provided with universities in Germany, Poland and other European countries, as well as with Russian educational institutions that give a rating around the world, "said A. Koval.
The event will be attended by leading Russian, Canadian, Japanese scientists.
battalion commander captain alibek baibulat was the first to perform the exercise, showing the best performance of combat firing.
According to him, 100 countries are expected to participate in EXPO-2017.
We plan to send him to the departments of internal policy of the regions in the future, "he said. nest.
According to him, this year new nominations were added at the festival.
Under the chairmanship of Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov, a meeting of entrepreneurs of the two countries was held, during which the parties expressed interest in cooperation.
Almaty has a large Korean diaspora, a Korean theater, there are Korean shops and restaurants.
Director of the Kazakh branch of Moscow State University M.V. Lomonosov on behalf of the entire team congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday, wished him good health, happiness and wished him the implementation of new ideas.
Specialists from neighboring Russia, Ukraine and Belarus also came to the seminar in order to exchange experience.
ensures the participation of public institutions and citizens in decision-making by state bodies of all levels, "said R. Mukashev.
During the visit, bilateral talks will be held and a number of documents will be signed.
the attempt to confront traitorous traditions and achieve love ends sadly for everyone: the pine is mistaken in memory and dies, the faithful narsha dies, the spirit of my cheese falls, the stamps regret and then.
It is noted that 8466 units of harvesters will be involved in harvesting this year, including 1,129 foreign harvesters.
strategy2050.kz. In an exclusive interview with the correspondent of the news agency, the deputy chairman of the Astana city branch of the Nұr Otan party shared his opinion.
One of the positive results of such activities is the opening in Aktobe of the republican public association "Kazakhstan Federation of Education and Sports Robotics" Kazrobotiks. "
gas transportation volumes will be equally increased in the domestic market and in the Chinese direction, "he concluded.
Representatives of Swedish business will come to the presentation of primary technologies to participate in EXPO-2017.
As a result of the focused work of the country's leadership, the government to ensure the competitiveness of our state, Kazakhstan took 42nd place in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum. kazakhstan has risen to the 42th place in the wef global competitiveness index , because country 's leadership carries out the purposeful work to ensure competitiveness .
Baikonur Cosmodrome is known by everyone in the world, but not many know where it is.
in particular, the center management intends to begin the construction of a residential complex and a preschool institution. this center involves the shopping center and the construction of storage for agricultural and industrial businesses .
in addition, the production of polymer products from the petrochemical industry should be distinguished.
the second is the insurance package presented by the newly created health insurance fund.
only fifteen members.
many international experts gave Kazakhstan critical assessments that religious tensions could occur in the future.
He also congratulated Kazakhstanis on the celebration this year and wished success to the country.
according to K. Tokayev, the tax system of the state should withstand the requirements of the national economy and modern global challenges, including a decrease in oil prices, which reduces the country's income; slowing down economic growth; depreciation of the national currency; sanctions against Russia also have influence.
student of the military excavation department named after al-Farabi aslan Barkinkhoi showed the best result in long jump among all participants in the competition.
General Director of the Interfax news agency M. Komissar expressed confidence that the rich experience and creative potential of the President of Kazakhstan will continue to serve the interests of the country.
and, unlike the usual auction competition for granting the right to commission, in the same dimension - the volume of the signed bonus. the difference between the auction and existing competition for the right of subsoil use is the presence of just one criterion for determining of the winner - the size of a signing bonus .
in this list, cases are initiated on the appeals of citizens and legal entities, and only a few of them will reach the court.
The main part of mass sports is the passing of presidential tests. an important component of mass sport is passing presidential tests .
According to him, the document provides for the expansion of approaches to access to information.
In EU named after L. Gumilev a meeting of the discussion club "Free Opinion" was held.
Thus, in September, about 10 thousand tons of gasoline will be delivered to the domestic market, "said the First Vice Minister.
The program of the East Kazakhstan delegation began with a meeting of Governor Danial Akhmetov with the Chairman of the National Government of the PRC, following which an agreement was signed on trade, economic, scientific, technical, humanitarian and cultural cooperation between the regions.
according to him, improving the well-being of the population was connected with the constitution.
Currently, the project operates railway lines, container sites and purchased transshipment equipment.
During the expedition, famous local historians, elders and historians of the region told the expedition members about the significance of these historical places.
The construction was carried out by the contracting company quartz special service LLP.
The total area is 3714.6 square meters, 12 groups will be covered in this 320-seat building, "the report said.
Thus, he provides ordinary assistance to academics 70-80 years old.
According to the regional department of agriculture, despite the natural climatic conditions, the farmers of the region collected 5 million tons of wheat from an area of ​ ​ 4,018 thousand hectares.
for example, extensive administrative reform has been carried out on the basis of world best practices.
Thanks to this system, any investor can apply and get permission for geotechnology within three hours, "said B. Sagintayev.
we try to meet the requirements of time, and we set a course to get out of what citizens were waiting for. we try to keep up with the times and focus on the expectations of the citizens .
At the end of the meetings, the parties expressed interest in creating an enabling environment for the exchange of information and the exchange of best professional practices.
The head of state congratulated the company's staff on the launch of the facility and noted its importance in the development of the industrial industry in the region.
I think that our common task is to prevent this.
the optimization of the court will facilitate citizens' access to justice, prevent the delay of trials. optimization of the courts in the first place will ensure more simplified access of citizens to justice , eliminate red tape and tightening of legal proceedings related to the appeal decisions .
The construction of an enterprise that meets international gmp standards is planned to begin this year.
the number of Kazakh khans exceeds a hundred.
among them are the construction of boarding houses for children with oncology and their parents, the improvement of their palliative care, the confirmation of immunohistochemical studies in the reference laboratory of the city of keel (Germany), the provision of republican children's medical organizations with high-quality and modern diagnostic devices for the visualization of tumors.
Deputy Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to state bodies to further monitor prices for socially significant food products and ensure social stability in the region.
In the 90s, there are several politicians around the world who really have a high rating, including n.nazarbayev. on the cusp of the 90s , margaret thatcher , famous " iron lady " said that there are some politicians who really deserve praise worldwide , and among such politicians she called the name of n. nazarbayev .
Leading expert and research institute of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
According to him, juvenile convicts, or children whose criminal cases were dismissed on the basis of restoration, come to the center.
the Kazakh diplomat reported on the activities of the "Islamic organization for industrial safety."
during this period, 2.5 thousand enterprises of small, medium and large businesses took part in the competition.
The remaining districts of the region will be gasified next year.
all bicycles are equally painted in the company's corporate colors and are marked with a logo.
today 18 of these 50 works are implementing their innovative products.
upgraded aeronautical installation.
Currently, the capital accounts for the largest number of investments per capita.
Serik Mukanov, deputy chairman of the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party, noted that the implementation of a project of this scale creates good opportunities for the socialization of children without parents.
The expedition along the great steppe is carried out for young people, because the elderly and the elderly have a rich history.
in particular, the main theses of the five institutional reforms announced by the head of state, which will greatly change the immediate socio-political and socio-economic life of the country, were explained.
The topic of ecology and sustainable development has become a priority of our parliament and the President of Kazakhstan.
Such strategic programs as "nұrly zhol in Kazakhstan," "100 concrete steps," "Kazakhstan - 2050" are fully consistent with the UN agenda, he said.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an example of unity, cooperation and historical continuity, it is a single holiday for all Kazakhstanis who live together under one shanyrak, "said B. Saparbayev.
According to the Chairman of the National Bank, this bill defines the legal status of the court of the international financial center "Capital" as an independent and not part of the judicial system of Kazakhstan.
this holiday is a tribute to those who are ready to support and help those in need. this celebration is a tribute to all those who are dedicated to people who need support and assistance .
all apples planted next year produce crops.
According to the head of the department for the fight against drug trafficking of the Ministry of the Interior, Sultan Kusetov, 23 tons of 200 kg of narcotic drugs were seized 2 months after the start of the cocnar program.
in particular, the development of coordinated actions and concrete measures to counter extremism aimed at preventing cases that contribute to the growth of similar threats and their transition to terrorist activities.
In 2014, Kazakhstan entered the top thirty countries in attracting foreign direct investment. in 2014 , we joined the top 30 best countries attracting direct investments .
Kazakhstan is located in the center of Eurasia and pays special attention to the development of transit potential.	as the vice-president said , one of the most promising solutions is based on multimodal transportation scheme ' railair ' in kazakhstan .	0,77
The sides also emphasized the further development of cooperation, including inter-parliamentary diplomacy.	in this regard , both sides expressed willingness to expand cooperation and parliamentary diplomacy .	0,77
in addition, I study at a trilingual school, we study, read and write essays in this language.	the novel  botagoz , " which i wrote about , influenced my vision of life as a whole .
the speakers noted that the implementation of five institutional reforms is a response to global domestic challenges, as well as a plan to become one of the 30 developed countries in a new historical situation.
If in one of them children learn to draw poetry, then in one of them fairy tales were staged.
Chairman of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan k.r. turgankulov handed over to registered deputies the relevant certificates of the established model and badges.
Since the beginning of the year, 59 job fairs have been held in the region, 8 of them in Petropavlovsk.
In turn, he expressed interest in collaborating with the seaport of rehabilitation.
the region has developed ferrous metallurgy, the production of food products, motor vehicles, agricultural equipment.
Thus, the irrigation process is carried out on an ongoing basis, "said the head of the educational center.
In general, the head of state set the task to close the gap between the contribution of the regions to economic growth. muratbek taljati presented unusual kobyz , national souvenir weapons , utensils , wooden pictures .
In the draft code, the high standard of judges increases confidence in the judiciary, "said A. Kasenova.
the training was conducted by a professor at Shanghai World Logistics University.
By the end of the year, it is planned to present the trading mission and domestic products in Novosibirsk and Azerbaijan.
In general, I cannot say that I love this book, the choice is very large.
in addition to the discussion at the forum, they get acquainted with innovations in biogas technologies, the use of a synthesizer produced from organic raw materials.
We believe that these measures will increase the popularity of Kazakh products, "he said.
One of the directions of 100 concrete steps - the national plan for the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state is the creation of a public service provider for the Government for Citizens corporation.
Given the current tensions in the world economy and the instability of the global system, we are moving towards fundamental institutional changes.
it presents companies with extensive experience in foreign markets, which work in the field of construction of high-rise buildings, the road industry, energy and mining.
The meeting participants discussed topical issues affecting the development of the region, exchanged views on the international agenda.
we want that in the shadow affairs of extremists young people are not used and they develop so that they are correct and useful for the whole society, "he said.
In order to further develop the agricultural processing industry, the State Program for Industrial and Innovative Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 provides for the implementation of relevant measures containing a special section "food production."
restoration work on the banks of the Irtysh is in full swing.
Further development of medical and nursing education provides for the triunicity of clinical practice, medical education and scientific activity. functions of primary care including patient monitoring , management of chronic diseases and patient care at home will be gradually transferred to specially trained nurses , general practitioners .
it is planned to open a department of Kazakh language for foreign students of the near future.
Based on this, studying the experience of military training of foreign states, based on military operations in Afghanistan and adjacent territories, we make every effort to strengthen our armed forces, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov.
To date, the overhaul of the five-story building is being completed. as of today , the five-story housing building is being repaired .
traders signed the contract.
These measures will also be used to lease grain cleaning and drying equipment.
a resident of Astana gulnur sagumbayev came to the reception with the same question.
Therefore, Kazakhstan should remain a place to freely come here and look for a worthy path to conflict issues, "he said.
In the summer of this year (03.07.15), the first international open auction of tribal bread in Kazakhstan will be held in the Kostanay region.
The press conference will be attended by member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan - member of the Committee on Finance and Budget Ekaterina Nikitinskaya and member of the Committee on Ecology and Use of Natural Resources.
today there are 410 enterprises of the chemical industry in the country.
then this large meaningful program will be understandable to future generations.
the land plots provided will be acquired over time, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Aktobe region nurlybek mukans.
In the near future, 600 hectares of land will be returned through the court, and Georgievka LLP plans to build a dairy farm equipped with modern equipment.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetov met with residents of the microdistrict, who thanked the head of the city for the experimental site.
At the meeting, a memorandum was concluded on the supply of grain and agricultural products, "the statement said.
therefore, for the space industry, funds always pay off at the expense of the state.
In addition, the Academy received international status and established contacts with leading international organizations, such as UNESCO, isesko.
- 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms - on the introduction of amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on rehabilitation and bankruptcy, aimed at the implementation of the Plan of the Nation and the improvement of rehabilitation and bankruptcy procedures
The main purpose of today's round table is to talk in more detail about the mediative agreements of the juvenile court. the main purpose - to talk about the place of mediation agreements in a juvenile court .
programs are aimed at implementing strategic plans. programs are aimed at the strategic plans .
This will allow the Kazakh people to travel around the Korean country and provide convenient access for business representatives, "said E.Cho.
examination materials on applications submitted by the National Testing Center have been prepared and sent.
The head of the city noted that the long-term connection between diamonds and ecdb has borne fruit, thanks to which 4 projects worth $121 million were implemented in 2009.
The title of the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025 indicates that the document is aimed at the future. the very name - anti-corruption strategy of kazakhstan for 2015-2025 - says that it is designed for the future .
As part of the project, the documentary "The Great Riddle of Abai" was shot.
of these, educational objects make up the majority, that is, 32 objects.
It is also necessary to teach our children to respect the culture, languages ​ ​ of peoples living in our state from a young age.
As the head of state noted, all of us are connected with people, the people, with sense of responsibility for peace on the planet created by the creator.
Over the 1 half of 2015 year, participants of the SME support program in the manufacturing industry paid taxes in the amount of 7.2 billion tenge.
simplification of the procedure for obtaining the rights of ethnic Kazakhs (Oralmans); Assign the status of the oralman regardless of their location area simplifying the procedure for obtaining citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the year for this ethnic group; allocation of quotas for their placement in zones defined by the government, as well as consideration of social benefits determined by the government when accommodating in the regions (reimbursement of transport costs, provision of rooms from a hostel without an office house, employment).
specialists of the main electric grid company of the Republic of Kazakhstan carried out scheduled repairs of electrical networks in full, replenished emergency reserves of devices, materials and spare parts, accumulated the necessary reserves of transformer oil and fuel and lubricants.
As A. Zhaksybekov noted, open and understandable mechanisms are being created and constantly improved in the capital, allowing private capital to master the market without any risks.
According to the expert, meliation is common in Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, before the meeting, the Shu Foreign Ministers received Russian President Vladimir Putin and informed him about the priority areas that Russia adheres to during the chairmanship of the Shu.
According to data published by the World Economic Forum in the Human Capital Development Index, over the year the country rose by 8 positions and took 37th place. the world economic forum unveiled the statistics of the human development index of capital .
under the law, agricultural cooperatives are proposed to switch from the status of agricultural cooperatives, that is, from a non-commercial degree to commercialization.
At the board, the Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, nurymbetov, familiarized with the "Employment Roadmap 2020" (ZHIP 2020) and measures to implement the comprehensive employment plan of the regions for the first half of this year.
The qualification of all experts and energy auditors has been improved.
When choosing productions, theater guests paid special attention to the most famous, impressive and light performances with the participation of Kazakh and foreign stars, "the report said.
and Kazakhstani athletes for several minutes saw a "sand show" reflecting the life of Kazakhs, starting from ancient history to today.
Today, a lot of work is being done to popularize Kazakh products, we organized a general logo competition, the purpose of which is to popularize domestic goods among many imported goods, "said A. Aystanov.
And in our state, under the leadership of the head of state, the first issue is the discussion of the concept of the constitution of the new state, "said Z. Fedotov.
in particular, persons who are required to file a declaration are identified.
I would like our astronauts to be a whole detachment, "he recalls.
they will determine the importance of these goods, suppress unscrupulous competitors and consider antitrust controls.
small and medium-sized businesses should develop there.
According to the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, in 2015, out of 15 billion tenge allocated for lending to individuals - domestic buyers of cars, as of October 2, 2015, 3,418 individuals were actually financed in the amount of 10 billion 780 million tenge or 72% of the total allocated funds.
Guests of the press conference praised the reforms planned in Kazakhstan.
state awards are traditionally held on the eve of Independence Day.
participants from 8 to 13 years old gathered in the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists.
presidential tests are conducted with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
araz "Kazakhstan railway."
and despite the fact that Belarus was not a member of both organizations, it was striving to achieve that level.
A number of Welsh companies, which drew attention to Kazakhstan's efforts to modernize its economy and attract high technologies, expressed interest in implementing specific investment projects in various sectors of Kazakhstan's industry.
financial covenants are similar to the existing pre-export credit line presented by the syndicate of banks, "the report said.
Thus, the bill introduced changes and additions in terms of increasing the number of places required for the use of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan, changes in the rules for the use and clarification of the powers of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on this issue.
this is due to the fact that the heat tariff is formed based on the planned heat volumes, including on the basis of the forecast of "street" temperature, "the department said.
According to him, the economic situation affected only the expansion of entrepreneurship.
By order of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan No. 219, the list of directions has been expanded from 8 to 16.
Currently, in the entrepreneurial cooperation of the two countries there are still barriers in such issues as labor permits, the need for a visa and a residence permit, "said the deputy chairman of the Committee for the Development of International Trade of China during a working meeting of the Kazakh-Chinese Business Council in the format of an investment forum in the capital.
works are made in graphic form.
the draft law is sent to the chamber for consideration.
the main intrigue is what help the investor support center can provide and what projects are in its portfolio.
in the rescue units of the curb and pike, rescuers mastered the effective use of rescue equipment and the management of a rowing boat.
this is an increase in the level of the population, on the other hand, a strong competitive environment will appear in the economic sphere.
a number of general documents, including agreements on cooperation between the regions of Russia and Kazakhstan.
It is noted that the company is negotiating the export of its products with countries of the post-Soviet space and countries of far abroad.
of these, KZT 9.7 billion was allocated for investments, KZT 4.6 billion for replenishment of working capital and KZT 2.6 billion for refinancing of loans.
The Vice Minister also noted that the draft code simplified measures for employers to hire, transfer personnel, dismiss an employee, determine working conditions and pay for them.
Nursultan Abishevich in the wake of the personal management of Kazakhstan aimed not at evil, but at strengthening the democratic system of the country.
one shot from that weapon.
The event will be attended by the chairman of the board of JSC "Guardianship" Yevgeny Tsai.
At the end of the meeting, Abdikalikova expressed confidence that mutually beneficial partnerships between the Higher School of Public Policy of Nazarbayev University and the Lee Kuan School of Public Policy of Singapore National University will contribute to the further qualitative development of Kazakhstan's human potential.
According to the company, in 2015 nmg and emg will sell 2.3 million tons of oil (46 thousand barrels per day) to the domestic market.
Young soldiers enlisted in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan vowed to faithfully perform service to the Fatherland, to fulfill the sacred military duty issued by our country to protect the country from foreign airstrikes.
astrid tour noted that since the opening of the office of the high commissioner in Kazakhstan, an effective dialogue has been established and active interaction with kha is ongoing.
Recall that the theatrical performance consisted of seven parts.
if we respect and appreciate every word of the constitution, we will achieve great success.
in the field of nuclear energy, there were great prospects for establishing links with Japan.
According to the Chairman of the Institute of Indology and the Study of Interreligious Dialogue, the presence of such a platform indicates that the leaders of world and traditional religions have a large number of opinions on each issue.
I take advantage of this visit and invite the Chairman of the Majilis to visit the republic on an official visit.
gashek is a representative of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, as well as a member of the Czech-Kazakh mixed chamber of commerce and industry, created last year in Prague.
In turn, the congressman, Mr. Mix, noted that the holding of the expo 2017 in the capital demonstrates our country's active position in the international arena and calls on the government and citizens to take part in the exhibition, which opens up all opportunities for the liberalization of the visa regime.
It is noted that the working group considered the issue of mandatory preliminary warning about goods imported into the eurozone.
the role of the public school is growing.
Further, the people's representatives got acquainted in detail with the plan of the newly formed pine microdistrict in Semipalatinsk and examined the construction of the Nazarbayev intelligent school facility.
To do this, it is necessary to constantly interact with the largest universities and the best archives of central, eastern and far abroad, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The head of state answered the question about the Eurasian Economic Union, noting that this is a union of Europe and Asia.
today we are implementing a program for the development of trilingualism.
at a meeting with David Green, Director of the Office for Combating Major Fraudulent Crimes of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Attorney General of Kazakhstan expressed interest in forming interaction and sharing experiences in the fight against transnational organized crime and cybercrime.
Currently, the general contractor has completed work on expanding and extending the lanes for the reconstruction of the facility and strengthening the top surface.
also teaches to love the motherland, to respect its language.
the evaluation of candidates of the highest, first and second categories was carried out with the participation of independent experts who received special training.
The head of state also noted the importance of the upcoming reforms, given the geopolitical situation in the world.
this would allow trial cases to be tried separately, taking into account the rights and interests of minors.
the history and culture of their homeland, their native language.
work is also carried out to select the appropriate equipment.
therefore, negotiations are doing everything possible to influence the volume of agricultural subsidies and maintain prices for their products.
the head of the fund n. During the meeting, Sarybayev and entrepreneurs of the region discussed the development of dairy livestock and the financing of farms for the creation of family-type stafs.
In addition, we are talking about managing human resources in the public service, improving the ways of the modern system of educational and training programs, improving the qualifications of public servants for the successful implementation of services.
According to him, the meeting is fully devoted to trainings, as a result of which a model of further development of mediation in Kazakhstan will be developed.
Speaking at the conference, the representative of the Armenian Ministry of Economy mechak April, noting the importance and relevance of the topic proposed by the Kazakh side, reported on the experience of Armenia in the field of tourism development and proposed strengthening cooperation in this direction between the two countries.
for the first time in history, we issue a stamp dedicated to the Kazakh Khanate, "said Z. Abuldinov.
It should be noted that Kazneft-Almat LLP is the largest industrial enterprise for the production of shoes and clothing, including clothing for military and law enforcement agencies.
In addition, the bill provides for environmental protection, that is, it defines effective ways to protect the environment by clarifying the powers of state bodies and organizations, "said the Minister of Energy Vladimir schoolboy.
The bill considered at the meeting "On introducing amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of the activities of autonomous educational organizations" caused a heated discussion.
Recall that the international competition "Commonwealth Warrior" among servicemen of friendly armies, which determines military professional skill, is held annually on the basis of the armed forces of the CIS countries.
against the background of the flag soap in the form of a vertical strip is a national pattern.
Vice Minister for Investment and Development Albert Rau will take part in the press conference.
I was surprised not only by industry, but also by the social development of the country, including this region.
He participated in international competitions in the ranks of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
parents are ready to fulfill all such conditions, "said z.arystana.
It should be noted that today Kazakhstan has a number of enterprises engaged in the production of military products and its bilateral operation.
The ceremony was attended by the crew of the ship under the command of the ship's commander, Lieutenant Captain Murat Baimukhanov, who underwent a theoretical training course at the Kuznetsov Naval Academy training center, as well as the military attache of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation Colonel rope baizhanov, public figures, entrepreneurs, specialists of the Kazarnaulyexport company.
The purpose of the event is to provide a platform for discussing the results of research in this area, the prospects for their development and practical application, contributing to the development of a large and open data industry in Kazakhstan in the future.
dear friends, welcome to the first shooting tournament. dear friends , i welcome you to the first tournament on the game " asyk atu . "
According to the UK Department for International Development, the poorest part of the world lives in states where conflicts have occurred.
The head of state reported on the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development of the region and the program "agricultural complex - 2020."
Following the meeting, a cooperation agreement was signed between the Beijing joint Kazakh-Chinese investment company and the Managing Company of the Industrial Zone Ot Stik LLP.
The head of state noted that the company has implemented a number of large projects since its arrival in our country, thanks to which it is one of the leading investors in the Kazakh economy.
thus, such a model of sustainable development, efficient use of energy can serve as an example not only for other cities of Kazakhstan, but also for countries of the world, "said Secretary General V. Lossertales.
you need to get used to it.
In addition, the document reflects the monitoring of product safety and the exchange of information on dangerous goods identified on the market between the EAEU countries.
today, one of the popular services of the mobile government is an extract on the state of pension savings. today one of the most popular services is a mobile government application on the status of pension savings .
the bill introduces a system of incentives for employees to serve in law enforcement agencies.
As the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted, the development of Kazakhstan and Qatar will affect the cooperation between the two countries.
Recall that yesterday the 14th meeting of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions was held.
at the end of the negotiations, the parties signed a number of cooperation documents.
work is underway to prepare a water intake tower in the village of Pereval.
the text of laws is published in the press.
texts of laws are published in the press.
and our countries have not been left out of this trend.
violations of legislation on public procurement in the amount of 229,438,3 thousand tenge.
I believe that such measures are very necessary in order to involve young people in patriotic feelings, and this feeling should be for every citizen who knows his history, respects, appreciates it.
Speaking about the priorities of cooperation, the pataradze stressed the importance of implementing 5 institutional reforms of the President of Kazakhstan.
Makinsky poultry farm with a capacity of 60,000 tons per year in live weight will be built in 2015-2019.
I believe that we have done a lot of work, and this work ends with the signing of today's agreement.
The World Bank conducts annual business support measures. even 10 years ago , kazakhstan was on the 86th place , today - the 41st .
now within the framework of a single economic zone, a pension agreement has not been concluded with Russia and Belarusian states, but the draft agreement is being discussed at the expert level. there is still a pension contract with russia and belarus which is not signed within the common economic union , but the draft treaty is discussed at the expert level .
The participants of the event were members of parliament, representatives of the railway administrations of the CIS and Baltic countries and enterprises producing railway products.
the most difficult thing for me was to show creative art in front of the people, "said D. Hovhannisyan.
The bank's investments will contribute to the implementation of innovative solutions that will lead to good changes in the lives of residents and guests of the capital, "the mayor of the capital said.
According to him, the foundation, as one of the founders of the university, wants it to develop in the right direction.
All our work is aimed at improving the life of the population, improving the welfare of the country, "said First Deputy General Director of Kaztransgaz JSC.
its contribution to the development of economic and cultural and humanitarian relations between Turkic-speaking countries.
group of companies tui group occupies a leading position in the world tourism market.
the day of the capital is a nominal holiday celebrated by the people of the republic as a whole.
the process of training of specialists is exhausted and responsible. the process of learning is responsible .
The first institutional reform announced by the head of state is training in personnel management, since the career form of the civil service depends on personnel activities. the first institutional reform is to train hr specialists , because the new model of civil service gives personnel services a key role .
The adopted procedures are aimed at eliminating barriers to the use of natural resources, sectoral improvement of the legal framework, improving the investment climate, attracting direct investment in the industry.
Kazakhstan has many women's organizations, but each has its own direction: gender policy, entrepreneurship development, work with disabled children, but issues of education remained on the sidelines.	and , perhaps , in the next few years as much as possible we must solve this problem , because during these 20 years the state has reached incredibly much in economic terms , a lot of public construction , including the merit of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan .	0,78
The company intends to conduct an aerogeophysical survey in September of this year.	in september the company intends to conduct airborne geophysical survey .	0,78
According to the results of the first two, contracts worth more than $78 million were concluded, about 20 domestic manufacturers took part in these trade missions.	as a result of two previous trade missions , involving 20 kazakhstan producers , contracts worth more than $ 78 million were signed .	0,78
Recall that during the Shu and Brix summit in Ufa, the process of India and Pakistan joining the Shanghai family as "full members" will begin.
Russia is a strategic partner and ally for us.	russia is a strategic partner and ally for kazakhstan .	0,78
The current flow over time has shown that the global interfaith dialogue requires such a mechanism, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the Kazakh delegation met with the Chairman of the Parliament of Mongolia z.enhbold and the Chairman of the Standing Committee of the Parliament of Mongolia on Security and Foreign Policy.
The qualifications assessed by corps a are systemic.
Following the meeting, a protocol was signed on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
Recall that the Dubai airshow international air show in Dubai is one of the key events in world civil and military aviation.
In this regard, I invite your specialists to take part in this event, "he said.
According to A. Zhumagaliyev, diversification of production will allow the company to receive additional revenues through the sale of finished products for nuclear power plants in the world.
Harsh Berdibek thanked Saparbayev for the warm welcome and noted that for the first time after his appointment he travels to the regions of Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of Culture and Sports annually holds events dedicated to the anniversary of public figures and cultural figures. the ministry of culture and sport annually holds events dedicated to the anniversaries of prominent cultural and public figures .
21 objects and securities worth 654.2 million tenge were legalized.
"Today, at this forum, we must, discussing the prospects for Eurasian economic integration, first of all, take into account the goals and principles of an alliance founded by prominent politicians," the Cabibollah of the Jacupes emphasized.
As Asset Issekeshev noted, exploration in the coming years will become one of the priorities of the country's industrial policy as a high-tech service.
a field base has been created on the site, and today the collection of aerogeophysical data has begun.
4.4 million users are now registered on the portal, "the head of the marketing services control department of the Committee on Communications, Informatization and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
these councils were included in a comprehensive intersectoral suicide prevention programme, which was endorsed by the Government and supported by unisef experts. these recommendations are included in the basis of a comprehensive programs to prevent suicide , and was approved by the government of the republic of kazakhstan for implementation .
In addition, in this direction you can get to the Astrakhan, Volgograd and Saratov cities of Russia.
currently, the flag of the Air Force of Kazakhstan has been transferred to the cosmonaut through representatives of the general command of the air defense forces, the report said.
The head of the city noted close ties with the population, strengthening public confidence in the local executive branch and the city branch of the party, organizing new methods of party monitoring, new methods of control over the implementation of state and sectoral programs and effective implementation of budget funds.
The congress will allow specialists, including young scientists, to exchange experience with colleagues from far and near abroad, to plan joint scientific research.
In addition, other projects are being considered, such as the preparation of oriental dishes and the expansion of the clinical diagnostic center.
integrated operator will ensure efficient business conduct of both companies, creation of modern technological networks and as soon as possible branching of the multi-technology network 4g/3g/2g in the territory of the republic, thereby providing access to cellular and Internet services to end users.
Ministries of the two countries prepared a plan to increase trade for 2015-2016.
According to him, in order to build highly qualified personnel potential in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to continue the dialogue between law enforcement agencies and universities.
Speaking to the audience, Deputy Prosecutor General Andrei Kravchenko introduced the guests to the goals of the activities of the prosecutor's offices of Kazakhstan, priority areas, peculiarities of prosecutor's supervision, and law enforcement functions.
Today, much attention is paid to the transport of container cargo. in this context , much attention is paid to the development of container transport .
users through their mobile devices most often receive information on the timing of technical inspection, address certificates, information on pension contributions, pay for cellular services and check the queue number in kindergarten - said the head of the automation department of services of the Committee on Communications, Information and Informatization of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the initiative to hold the annual forum belongs to Kazakhstan.
at the same time, production of coal and combined iron ores decreased.
to date, the life expectancy of Kazakhstanis is 71.6%.
our family is big and kind, so many of us want to take an example.
Also, a school for 900 visits for schoolchildren in the city of Kyzylorda was commissioned.
He noted that the most consumed sector of electricity in Kazakhstan is production, where the most reserves are.
When choosing the city hosting the 2017 exhibition and the country hosting the Olympiad, we cast our vote to the Kazakhstani.
institutional capacity-building, planning and non-financial support.
for the successful implementation of the second five-year plan, we began the construction of the Austrian zone last year.
the promotion of the position in the public service is carried out by competitive selection, that is, selection is organized as competitions of the state body itself as internal and all state bodies. promotion on a civil service will be conducted on a competitive basis : internal competitions of the agency , and then all government agencies .
today 455 thousand unemployed and 585 thousand unproductively employed, this is more than 1 million people. today , the labor market has 455,000 unemployed and 585,000 self-employed non-productive labors , but it turns out the amount of more than 1 million people who have little or no work .
the agenda also includes issues of international activities, strengthening cooperation with other integration structures and countries.
Let's remind that the youth championship of Asia on Greco-Roman wrestling takes place in Naypyido (Myanmar).
Kazakhstan, he said, should not remain a supplier of raw materials.
During the meeting, the main areas of Kazakh-British cooperation were discussed.
"Such meetings at the international level are the key to the further development of inter-party and interstate cooperation," said the secretary of the Nұr Otan party.
I would say that today is an unofficial holiday of mediation day.	on august 5 , 2011 kazakhstan introduced the law on mediation .	0,78
By the way, asphalt was laid on access roads and a bridge structure was provided.	besides , it is planned to construct an access road and the bridge , the external gas supply and electricity networks , water main , and pumping station .	0,78
An online database of administrative sites for geo-blocking according to the Australian form is being built.	thanks to this system , any investor can apply and obtain a license for the exploration in three hours .	0,78
In previous years, the competition was held in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus.	last year the contest was held on the territory of the russian federation and the republic of belarus .	0,78
Within the framework of the Week of Regions, the delegation of Aktobe region will visit the agricultural fair and take part in the anniversary events, which will be held on October 8-9 in Taraz.	within a week the delegation of aktobe region will participate in the agricultural fair , commemorative events in taraz on october 8-9 .	0,78
now it is necessary to pay attention to the need to create the core of our event.	now we have to focus on how to create the core of our activities .	0,78
viewers got the opportunity to get acquainted with the Kazakh national musical instrument, which heard the Kurmangazy call his name "," and then stabbed his fist in a new melody of Italian melodies, performed with a guitar and a dombra.
military personnel are shown historical documentaries about the formation of our statehood, exhibitions, conferences, round tables, theater performances and festive concerts are held.
Recall that today 8 large companies with a total investment of 22.6 billion tenge operate in the special economic zone "South."
The Chairman of the Supreme Court noted the importance of this meeting in establishing successful relations in the legal sphere of the two countries and emphasized that relations between Kazakhstan and India are developing in the traditional state of mutual understanding and trust.
During the implementation of the program, the work of public councils intensified.
The round table was successful, it was full of various data.
13 residential facilities in the amount of 631.7 million tenge, non-residential facilities in the amount of 1.5 million tenge, including commercial facilities in the amount of 1.5 million tenge, 2 participation interests of legal entities in the amount of 3.0 million tenge, securities in the amount of 670 tenge;
in their spare time, students are engaged in sewing, weaving, learning to play musical instruments and learning chess.
the construction of another 75-apartment multi-storey residential building in the city of Shchuchinsk, Burabai district, is being completed.
recently, I received many letters and telegrams related to the day and anniversary of the capital.
It also provides for the consolidation of the competence of public councils at the level of republican and local government.
the bank will become one of the most modern facilities that meet the requirements of the IAEA, which will positively affect the country's wheat as a supplier of nuclear materials.
borrowers are mainly residents of East Kazakhstan region, Pavlodar region.
Therefore in the new bill we tried to establish a legal regulation of concepts of the philanthropist, patron, philanthropist on legal grounds", - A. Kuzmin told.
In this regard, it is proposed to amend and supplement the Law "On the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" of October 28, 2008 on expanding the activities and duties of the people, ensuring the implementation of the national idea "Eternal Country," said M. Azilkhanov.
Within the framework of the signed document, the parties within their competence will act in the following areas: establishing business relations between the organizations of the Republic of Belarus and Pavlodar region; development of commodity markets; Establishment of joint ventures promoting goods created by the parties; holding exhibitions and fairs of products of enterprises of the Republic of Belarus in Pavlodar region of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as holding exhibitions and fairs of products of enterprises of Pavlodar region of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Republic of Belarus; organization of supplies of agricultural, communal, construction, quarrying and road equipment, equipment for oil refining, motor vehicles, food, products of the woodworking industry, construction industry, development of bilateral trade by providing the Republic of Belarus with construction services of Pavlodar region of the Republic of Belarus and supplies to the Republic of Belarus of goods produced in Pavlodar region; opening joint ventures and other commercial structures and expanding trade and economic relations between the Republic of Belarus and the Pavlodar region of the Republic of Kazakhstan; participation of Belarusian economic entities in infrastructure projects implemented in Pavlodar region of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked J. Kerry on his first visit to our country and this region.
The head of the region called on residents for patience and instructed to help builders if possible.
I. In turn, Dacic noted that in Serbian political and business circles a stable positive position was formed about Kazakhstan as a dynamically developing country, and noted that the country under the leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev has become an exemplary country in the Central Asian region in the areas of tolerance, promotion of security and stability.
Currently, the education department has submitted a budget order for additional financing, which will be considered by the maslikhat of the city of Karaganda when specifying the budget, the report said.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening the collective security system in the region, improving the effectiveness of the organization and the results of the exercises of the collective rapid response forces were discussed.
Chairman of the Majilis Nursay Abykayev stressed that thanks to the constant attention and support of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev and the leadership of the state, the National Security Committee during this period has become an effective special service worthy of the present, reliable protection of the interests of the state and the foundations of regional security.
True, there are violations in conditional treatment for Kazakh content, which we identify.
Abdikalikova noted that the leading role in the development of human capital is played by the intelligentsia of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology in order to fulfill the national plan for high-tech economic growth, improve the quality of life of Kazakhstanis.
M. Hussein wished the President of Kazakhstan good health, longevity and success in implementing initiatives aimed at the further development and prosperity of our country.
However, 135 projects were stabilized in five months.
among these amendments, he emphasized the fundamental decision of Kazakhstan to become a full member of the eidu.
Of these, 83.9 thousand hectares fall on the main cult rice.
such a decision was made based on the report of the board member (minister) on the main areas of integration and macroeconomics of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tatyana Valova "Integration measures to increase the economic stability of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU)."
he noted that the dialogue of religious leaders taking place in Astian could become a wealth of the diversity of human society.
for example, our working report reflects all our WTO accession tasks, 38 sections that ranged from monetary policy to private property.
It may be necessary to amend the constitution, all of them will cover the issue of the separation of power representations, "- said the acting.
on the same day, Tokayev received the ambassador of the Republic of Latvia, a burial lawyer, who recently presented a letter of credence to the president of Nazarbayev.
It also includes a number of other issues: terrorism, extremism, the fight against drug trafficking, energy partnership and the development of economic cooperation.
Conditional cash assistance is provided to a family with at least one able-bodied member, subject to the conclusion of a social contract, as well as compulsory participation in employment measures for all able-bodied family members.
moreover, the project does not provide for the creation of a citywide processing center to provide interested banks with processing services to service their card business.
Child-youth organizations are actively involved in preventive work.	however , children 's and youth organizations are actively involved in the ongoing preventive work .	0,78
in the context of the active development of the construction market, there is a shortage of building materials.	due to the booming construction market there is a shortage of building materials , structures and products .	0,78
As of November 1, 2015, small enterprises created 4,989 new jobs, the plan for the year - 5,258 new jobs.	as of november 1 , small businesses created 4,989 new jobs .	0,78
In accordance with the approved schedule, weekly briefings are held here, where heads of departments of the central apparatus, deputies of factions, first deputy chairmen of branches, secretaries of maslikhats, representatives of primary party organizations will report.	the press center will hold briefings with directors of departments of the central office of the party , mps , chairmen of regional party branches , the secretaries , the maslikhats , representatives of primary party organizations every week .	0,78
on the basis of this base, we could propose to the Eurasian Union to create a model, "he said.
10 subsidiaries and affiliates of Kazatomprom Uak JSC completed the relocation of their administrative offices from Almaty to Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan regions with uranium production.
during the meeting, a. Dzhaksybekov paid special attention to the issues of timely financing of construction, subsequent use of Kazakhstan pavilions and exhibition facilities.
The draft law introduces the institution of preliminary discussion of competitive documentation. the project stands out a new way of purchasing .
Officially, we plan to sign an agreement on further partnership with the EU in December this year.
3 ordinary drawings on asphalt along with the futuristic buildings of the capital will represent the future of the capital. three-dimensional drawings on the pavement of the boulevard will provide a vivid example of the future of astana with its futuristic buildings .
2,000 hectares of tomatoes were planted by drip irrigation in the amount of 28 million euros.
Speaking at the event, Deputy Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation Muhammad Nayim Khan drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan's priorities in the UN largely coincide with the main tasks in the field of security and stability, including nuclear disarmament, food security and health.
taking into account the risk of possible deterioration of weather conditions, similar conditions are provided for the purchase of grain cleaning and grain drying equipment for leasing.
these are important qualities that will help to achieve victories not only in sports, but also in the professional sphere.
according to the results of the gala concert, the cadets received diplomas of the 2nd and 3rd degree.
probation for newly elected judges for 1 year.
The press conference will be attended by the chairman of the board and deputy chairman of the board of Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools Svetlana Ispusinova, executive director Olga Mozhaeva and executive director Aigul Kazzhanova.
It is worth noting that the formation of tariffs of the customs union amounted to 6.2%.
It is noted that during the working visit, a delegation from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan visited the city of Bangkok (Thailand), where she got acquainted with the experience of human rights organizations involved in detecting illegal trafficking in Thais.
According to the Minister, Iran is an important partner of Kazakhstan in the field of road transportation.
Mr. Tuimebayev, speaking at the opening ceremony, noted the importance of cultural ties between the two fraternal countries.
in accordance with the resolution adopted by the Chairman of the Senate by the Cass-generous Tokai and members of the Bureau of the Chamber, the draft business code, accompanying amendments and additions to the legislation on entrepreneurship (first reading) and amendments to the constitutional law "On state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan" will be submitted to the deputies.
In general, according to industry experts, there are no problems in the field of education in the region.
we can now say with confidence that the plan of the first five-year plan has been fully implemented.
Karebek Suleimen in his speech n.p. on the work of the faction to implement Nazarbayev's instructions on the need for institutional reform "100 steps."
In addition, this institution does not receive funding from the state budget, works at the expense of contracting companies.
because the judicial system decides everything, "said M. Bashimov.
The content of the five-party document, based on the new generally accepted norms of international law, includes the regulation of water relations, the search for a balance of interests taking into account the modern situation and the specifics of the region.
On this topic, training will be introduced into educational institutions, "said Abdraimova, deputy director for educational work at the Nazarbayev Intellectual School in Kyzylorda.
Opening the event, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Canada Konstantin Zhigalov noted that the participation of adopted Kazakhstani children in cultural and humanitarian events organized by the embassy has become a good tradition, the diplomatic mission of the country pays special attention to the comprehensive ties of children with Kazakhstan.
to get to him, I went in for sports from my youth, I tried to study a lot.
international independent consultants will be involved, who will give recommendations on the effectiveness and quality of privatization, "he said.
The leadership of the joint headquarters of the armed forces noted the high level of theoretical and practical training of Kazakh servicemen.
the ballet troupe of the capital's theater performed on the stage of the Italian theater "karlo feliche" with a wonderful gala ballet program and a legendary name. staged a ballet performance a. Khachaturian "Spartak" staged by Grigorovich.
The plant, launched with the support of Kazenergosberezhenie LLP, produces 31.2 thousand units of LED lamps per year.
The Chairman of the National Bank noted that Kazakhstan is forced to reckon with the current situation in the global financial and commodity markets.
this event should be used to regulate prices for its products, counting economic forms and forming the business itself in the domestic market, "said A. Solovieva.
Karim Massim and Mohammad Ashraf Ghani noted that mutual understanding and trust between our countries develop in a traditional atmosphere, and bilateral mutually beneficial partnership is characterized by openness and mutual support in the international arena.
Candidate of Agricultural Sciences.
this is the largest number of graduates during the years of the school.
the second is inter-ethnic conflicts.
At the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for the development of mutually beneficial partnership between French and Pavlodar enterprises and educational institutions.
the infectious ideology of extremism.
In addition, the Minister got acquainted with the construction of the workshop of Leader-2010 LLP for the production of milk and kefir.
Note that the exposition in the capital will last until the end of October.
builders plan to complete the repair work within a month.
our task is to provide full state support in the necessary amount, to effectively use them in order to increase production efficiency, "he said.
for applicants at the regional and republican levels, participation in the competition is free of charge.
First of all, priority are given to processing projects in the field of agriculture and crop production.
In addition, the plans say that in the course of countering violent extremism, the UN is committed to other states, "the special representative said.
As part of the Sybaga program, the holding financed farmers for the purchase of 228.1 thousand heads.
we did not like this prospect, so we began to act decisively.
to date, appropriate measures will be prepared by the Government to protect producers of products dependent on subsoil users.
In August this year, a presentation of this film and a number of other documentaries dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will be held in Washington and New York, "said Andrei Khazbulatov, Director General of the Kazakh Research Institute of Culture.
cadets of the training company bear great responsibility to their people, choosing medical activities. the cadets of the training company , decided to become a military doctor , took over this heavy responsibility .
To implement the tasks specified in such a project as Eurasia, it is planned to create a consortium based on the partnership of the state and private estates and further implement the programs for 2016-2021.
According to the representative of the European Human Rights Center, views are expressed on the need to fundamentally eliminate legislative regulators.
we attach great importance to ambulance services in the countryside of our region. ambulance service has received attention and purposeful work .
given the lack of time, I propose to introduce this issue into the bill considered, "T. abaidildin added.
the text of the law is published in the press.
he informed about the progress of the "red" project at the copper deposit in the Zharma region.
The sides exchanged views on the world agenda and discussed the prospects for further deepening of inter-parliamentary cooperation.
only two of the 39 subsoil users signed a memorandum of cooperation and one sponsorship agreement.
there were more military units of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and showed high combat training.
The event was attended by members of parliament, representatives of state bodies and public associations.
the result of the audit was an official report confirming that Kazakhstan is fully fulfilling international obligations under the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces (INF Treaty) in Europe in full and does not have non-participating equipment and weapons.
The Commissioner General of the National Section of the Republic of Kazakhstan Anuarbek congratulated Daniel Bergo, who at the world exhibition "expo milano 2015" became a millionaire, and handed him a certificate for 2 people to see the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On the basis of these studies, consultations on the development of non-refundable donation have been prepared.
Timely measures to support domestic entrepreneurs have already been developed, "said A. Arinov.
thanks to such cooperation, we will be able to qualitatively implement all areas of work and optimize work.
winners of the presidential prize will receive 2 million 200 thousand tenge, as well as a gold badge.
The main tasks of the DDU office will contribute to strengthening the provision of health services in the field of primary health care development, fulfilling the global tasks of the European Regional Health Bureau regarding the fair, good, effective and effective provision of health services, "said Minister of Health and Social Development Tamara Duissenova during the presentation of the bill.
national flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan
for the convenience of visitors to the site, three sections have been created in it. there are three sections .
Recall that the President of Kazakhstan by his decree dismissed Kelimbetov from the post of chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
according to the registration indicator of the enterprise, Kazakhstan also has a significantly better achievement, it has risen to 34th place.
professionalization of the state apparatus requires the competitiveness of public servants, their professionalism and patriotism, "said A. Mukhamedzhanova.
According to him, Kazakhstan moved to the world market and became the 162nd member of the WTO.
The heads of government noted the significant potential for expanding cooperation in various areas of bilateral cooperation and discussed a number of issues to strengthen trade and economic ties.
During the speech, E. Idrissov noted the main efforts of Kazakhstan to peacefully restore Afghanistan, noting that Kazakhstan is taking consistent measures at the bilateral level, and also spoke about the implementation of an educational program to prepare 1000 Afghans for peaceful professions.
This measure was adopted by the Rosselkhoznadzor on the basis of a preliminary report compiled based on the results of the inspection of Latvian and Estonian fish processing enterprises, the report said.
we have specific plans to invest in the Kazakhstan credit company.
prior to this, Kazakhstan's goods were not competitive due to the high cost, so yesterday's event was forced.
sources of financing - the world bank, the republican budget.
in addition, for national companies and holdings in 2014-2015. In accordance with the sales schedule for 107 objects are subject to privatization, as of June 12, 78 objects of the planned 75 objects were put up for auction, including 39 objects.
The association includes well-known socio-political figures of members of the governor's corps of Egypt, former ministers and ambassadors, experts and representatives of the scientific environment, representatives of business communities and leading media.
Every year, the first museum of the President of Kazakhstan invites the staff of the school, which actively worked during the year together with the Department of Education of the city of Astana in honor of the Day of Education.
for example, in the questionnaire there is a question: did you hire a person with tuberculosis or immunodeficiency?
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the conflict in Ukraine erupted before the visit of the French leader, but no specific diplomatic steps were taken to resolve it at that moment.
secondly, we are completely updating emergency schools until 2016.
he noted that the creation of the Magat Abub is Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime and the peaceful use of the atom.
Deputy Mayor of Ust-Kamenogorsk Bulgakov took part in the award ceremony, noting that during the years of independence our achievements were achieved on the basis of the main law of the country.
In turn, the Director General for Business Development, a strong Beissengaliyev, emphasized that this loan agreement is the first project implemented through a project financing mechanism between the fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
It is noted that this decision means a transition to a new level of information interaction within the EAEU.
In addition, during a meeting with the President of the Vietnamese Nguyen Hoo Tourism Association, issues of developing the tourism business between our countries and creating favorable conditions for tourists of Kazakhstan in Vietnam were discussed.
it is impossible to imagine the successful development of the state without applied science, modern research, the creation of modern enterprises, the training of qualified specialists. "
Recall that last year 20 buses of the same type were brought in.
Within the framework of the iso general assembly, the 49th meeting of the devco committee was held to discuss the action plan of developing countries of the iso for 2016-2020, as well as factors promoting the participation of developing countries in technical work that affects the development of international standardization.
In the near future, a project will be prepared for the production of meat products and agriculture with the full possibility of building a slaughter zone with the supply of 3 thousand heads of fattening grounds up to 5 thousand heads.
It is worth noting that in January 2015, natural population growth amounted to 8 thousand 530 people, an increase in migration of 556 people.
It is worth noting that already on the first day competitions in military-applied sport showed record results.
During the meetings, issues of legislative and law enforcement practice regarding women, protection of motherhood and childhood, participation in the Expo 2017 were discussed.
participation in visits, business forums, meetings with business captains, personal meetings with major businessmen in the world.	nursultan nazarbayev drew attention to politics , economy , in particular , attracting investments to the country .	0,78
the book uses archival materials in Kazakh, Russian, English.	the book uses archival materials and sources in kazakh , russian and english languages .	0,78
in addition, the first reading will discuss the draft labor code, amendments to legislation on labor regulation, migration, employment.	in addition , it is planned to discuss in the first reading the draft labour code of kazakhstan , amendments to the legislation on labor regulations on migration and employment .	0,78
Therefore, I want to emphasize the importance of this direction for each of us.	it is devoted to the social sector , the issues of medicine , so i would like to emphasize the importance of this area for all of us .	0,78
Over the past ten years, the volume of attracted investments will exceed $2 billion, "E.Ayyrov said.
goods will be delivered to all regions of the country and 30 cities of Russia, and thanks to the use of the new box and effective marketing, it is hoped that in the future the distribution zone of goods will expand significantly.
for their children - not only a caring mother, but also a demanding producer.
For the wide industrialization of the country in the technical sphere, qualified specialists are needed.
President of the Kazakh Cultural Center Laura Schellenberg noted the importance of changing cultural ties between the two countries.
each of them contributed to our overall results, "said the chairman of the meeting, speaking at a joint meeting.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Mayor's Office of Astana and the Forestry Service of the Republic of Korea on cooperation in creating a green zone "Friendship Garden Kazakhstan - Korea."
many citizens criticize uib, for its first five-year plan, in fact they criticize objects that make up 10-15% of the total program. many people criticize piid , its first five year plan , in particular the objects covering no more than 10-15 % of the total program .
Even today, when I turn 85, I think that I see the embodiment of the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
the proposed measures are aimed at reducing the shadow economy and improving tax administration.
First of all, I would like to emphasize the first five-year plan, which gave a great impetus to production.
Under the kulan program, 2217 horses were purchased in the region.
all approved projects will be implemented through private investment.
The Chairman of the Senate Committee informed the Hungarian diplomat about the legislative activities of the parliament, the domestic political situation in the country, the national plan for the implementation of five institutional reforms and the Nұrly zhol program.
Project implementation cost is 13.1 billion tenge.
the bill is sent to the commission for consideration.
Children presented their works in three directions, symbolizing the emblem of Expo, which depicts three leaves:
The topic of this seminar is very important for Kazakhstan's participation in EXPO-2017. the theme of the workshop on ' european union-kazakhstan cooperation through innovation ' is close to the theme of the expo-2017 - energy of the future .
at dawn, from the west of the sun, in any weather, pilots and anti-aircraft technical calculations are ready to fulfill the assigned combat mission to protect and protect the peaceful, stubborn work of our people.
He noted that Karaganda region is not only a highly developed industrial zone, but also one of the largest cultural and scientific centers.
the document has already aroused the interest of national and international human rights defenders, representatives of Western states, as well as couples, ecu and eo.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 10,469 citizens who applied, 6,607 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2046 people received applications to change their details, 1,816 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 11398 citizens who applied, 7317 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 2157 people received applications to change their details, 1924 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
In total, about 100 negotiations were held on further cooperation between homogeneous and Kazakhstani universities.
the Director-General of UNESCO also noted that the initiatives and projects proposed by Kazakhstan in connection with the rapprochement of cultures are of great importance in strengthening harmony in the world.
80,980 graduates took part.
we have thought through all stages, from the period of admission to the village to the departure from it to independent life. we have covers all stages of social adjustment - from the first day in the village to the first day of independent life .
today's theme is based on innovation.
an avalanche has broken the courtyard of our house, and we have not had time to get out.	currently , 400 regional garrison troops are in kargaly district .	0,78
The Head of State paid special attention to the development of measures to protect and support domestic producers, increase the competitiveness of their goods and services on a regional scale along with the EAEU member states.	the head of state paid attention to the elaboration of measures to protect and support domestic producers , raise the competitiveness of their goods and services on the markets of the eaeu member states and the regional scale .	0,78
The basis for practical training was a course of theoretical training, where soldiers studied the characteristics of firearms, the technique and features of shooting, safety rules, the report said.
The purpose of the event is to contribute to the formation of a feeling of paid patriotism of state symbols among citizens of Kazakhstan, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
and there are no institutions that combine these issues and deal with them as a whole.
every year the global demand for food grows. during the time of the soviet union the link between farmer and land was cut .
it is also planned to install an additional cash department of Kazkommertsbank, to open notary and copy offices.
He also noted that Kazakhstan is one of the active participants in the process of globalization, which is characterized by a high level of new technologies, innovative development.
On the initiative of the official administrator of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the international scholarship Bolashak of the Center for International Programs JSC, the first language school in Kazakhstan was created on the basis of the Al-Farabi Kazakh National University.
in particular, the bill introduces a new point of view on corruption offenses.
Thus, the Chairman of the Board of the Inter Rao Group B. Kovalchuk thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his contribution to the development of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia and a constructive negotiating position.
According to him, in this regard, the Eurasian Commission, together with the ministries of member countries, can develop a production program for the development of the EAEU countries, which will interact with China.
This year, two more business projects received state support for subsidies and at the same time guaranteed the lack of pledged property.
The Governor noted the significant impact of the economic well-being of the two cities, especially on the priorities of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the formation of the capital as a business, cultural and scientific center of Eurasia.
In turn, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Russian Federation, who accepted the medal, thanked the Marats for such a high assessment of the activities of the President of Kazakhstan.
new samples presented during the exhibition will be successfully introduced into the activities of the departments responsible for ensuring security.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, during the negotiations on accession to the WTO, the structure of the Kazakh economy has changed significantly.
The Norwegian side highly appreciated Kazakhstan's strategic programs and expressed interest in further deepening bilateral relations.
During the meeting, the parties signed a second agreement aimed at implementing a project providing for the modernization of the capital's water supply and sanitation system.
yesterday students were shown a professional film about the activities of border posts.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that the visit of M. Gonzalez was the first visit of Central American states in the history of Kazakhstan at such a high level and expressed hope for further dynamic development of bilateral cooperation across the entire spectrum of relations, as well as for interaction in the international arena.
a 2.4-fold drop.
reduction of CO2 emissions, "high-efficiency lifestyles" and so-called "energy for all." The theme "energy of the future" will be widely covered in four thematic pavilions, where visitors will receive detailed information about various types of energy sources, how humanity consumes the Earth's energy equipment and possible directions for the further development of the energy system.
despite the decline in the external structure, Kazmunaigaz and Ak expect success by the end of the year.
indeed, the ecosystem of the floodplain transboundary river is a pressing problem.
in particular, it is now possible to apply to public service centers for tax reporting, revocation, issuance of patents to individual entrepreneurs, assignment of benefits to guardians or guardians for the maintenance of orphans and children left without parental care, issuance of invitations to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan for personal affairs, etc.
Kazakhstan has always led to constructive dialogue.	today president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev has received credentials .	0,79
landing first by parachute and landing methods.	in this regard , state of emergency has been introduced in order to strengthen the state border and to neutralize .	0,79
a very difficult way to develop innovations and startups.
in addition, Kazakhstan will create conditions for the development of the jewelry industry and form a single legislative basis for regulating public relations arising in this direction.
In the final competition, the akim of the region named the winners of the regional stage.
As a result of the work carried out, out of 10,141 citizens who applied, 6354 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, out of 1999 people received applications to change their details, 1,788 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 14,520 citizens who applied, 9,005 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2,975 people received applications to change their details, 2,450 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
these days, mobile medical complexes are sent to labor, free, hardworking villages of a foreign region of the Karaganda region.
and the large-scale kha project "big state-big family" will serve to further strengthen Kazakhstan's identity and unity.
Today, the business environment of Kazakhstan and Ukraine, the leaders of its industry, gathered on this site. today , the forum brought together representatives of business circles of kazakhstan and ukraine , the leaders of different industries , various companies that have mutual interests .
in the nomination "For the best equipment" at the competition, rakhat bekbolat (No. 1) was awarded.
I am sure that thanks to our internal reconciliation and selfless work, we will conquer this line with honor, "the congratulation says.
recently, there have been few comments from the general public. recently , there are more and more complaints connected with the textbooks .
the specialized team is also considered in court by the applicant for review in connection with the decision of the court of Astana.
The Kazakh diplomat thanked Jordan for supporting important international initiatives of Kazakhstan, including in the process of its accession to the world trade organization, handed over to his interlocutor the corresponding message of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov.
The best violinist of the festival will be determined by the rector of the Kazakh National University of Arts, honorary head of the Kazakhstan Academy of Music of Labor - Ayman Musakhozhaev, Isakadze - Shpilman (Germany), professor of the Estonian Academy of Music and the Helsinki Academy of Sibelius Mari Tampers-homeless and others.
therefore, it is possible to consider the possibilities of cooperation in this area and subsidize projects.
when we adopt this law, then the affairs we begin acquire charity, sponsorship, philanthropy, "he said.
Since the beginning of the year, 66 applications have been approved and 61 have been signed.
Also, during the auction, a seminar will be held on working with the web portal "Identification of farm animals" (ab) and the information and analytical system (aj) in animal husbandry, organized by white specialists of "Kazagromarketing."
in the city of Kapchagay, 25.2 km of heating networks are being modernized and a central boiler house is being built in the village of Zarechnoye.
Currently, the demand for this type of meat is growing, "says Natalya Thistle, head of the farm.
According to the participants of the event, the results of the conference will lead to new methods for studying and preserving, documenting and archiving the intangible and tangible cultural heritage of member states of the world.
creating essays will significantly increase trade and increase responsibility.
from 13 to 15 years old - 1st place - nurmukhamed hours, 2nd place - azimkhan aida, mustaev meray, 3rd place - fisherman anna, kabidullina rufia, dosmukhambeta aray.
This conference is aimed at a wide discussion of these measures, "he said.
how do you feel about him?
In addition, as the head of state added, it is very important for Kazakhstan to develop nuclear energy.
Also, increasing the level of parliamentary efficiency will allow developing in the trade and economic sphere, cultural and humanitarian sphere, "K. Zhakupov said.
a printed maslikhat was held at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Prague, where Lssaseinov spoke about the activities of Turkic-speaking people and answered questions from representatives of the media.
The Chairman of the Senate believes that the tax system, along with balancing the budget, should be aimed at ensuring structural changes and innovative development of the economy, creating high-tech production and stimulating the growth of non-primary exports and processed products.
The deputies will have before them the ratification of the treaty between Kazakhstan and Monaco on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and such a treaty with Hungary, as well as the intergovernmental agreement with Serbia on mutual promotion and protection of investments.
The study was carried out by the public association "Federation of Women" status. "
at the competitions, the crews of two rocket and artillery ships "Saryarka" and "Ural," as well as 20 troops of the Marine Brigade "Western"
Before the competition, the capital undergoes special training.
Following the meeting, agreements were concluded on the construction of a sugar factory, a pulp and paper mill, glass plants, lamps and lighting systems in the region.
We also believe that Malaysian companies that own modern technologies will contribute to the development of joint investment projects, "said E. Khairov.
If there are appropriate conditions (self-regulation, adoption of the law on establishing liability), these types of accreditation will be transferred to the competitive environment in the future.
As a result of the processing of data in the statistical records of entry/exit submitted by the migration police, the number of registered arrivals to the country for permanent residence (migrants) in January-August 2015 increased by 0.2% compared to January-August 2014 and amounted to 10,852 people.
During the meeting, the main areas of partnership in the field of trade and economic relations, scientific, technical and cultural relations were discussed.
The Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan called on Altrian potential partners to implement joint projects in the field of mechanical engineering.
the bill proposes new ways of regulating housing construction.
Issues of development and formation of constitutionalism in Kazakhstan were discussed during the round table.
The unreasonable expectations of employers and educational institutions are a global issue. the difference between the expectations of employers and the results of the work of the educational institutions is a global challenge .
During the personal conversation, it is expected to discuss topical issues of Kazakh-Russian relations and issues of integration relations within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and other organizations.
by creating new jobs, we intend to expand production in a non-growing volume.
As the head of the enterprise noted, in the future the company plans to increase production volumes.
production growth was ensured by all districts of the region and the city of Petropavlovsk.
The World Economic Forum (wef) published an annual report on global competitiveness for 2015-2016.
In turn, each country had a national program that allowed them to learn about the actions of these countries in the fight against terrorism, the document is the main condition that determines the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism, "he said.
Kazakhstan has more than 200 enterprises with Indian capital.
this is very important, since its implementation will eliminate judicial shortcomings and avoid them in the future, restore legal rights and protect interests when considering cases in court, "said Abdykadyrov.
The akimat, together with the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the TD, took appropriate measures.
Unfortunately, today all this has stopped, but today the return of calm to Afghanistan is pleasing, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Recall that the purpose of the meeting is to promote a healthy lifestyle among young people, improve physical, military-applied and technical training.
this is very important both for the people of Kazakhstan and for European countries.
the sports unit at the school has large and small gyms, a gym and a choreographic hall.
in the afternoon, the first sailing regatta started, in which about 20 yachtsmen of Russia and Kazakhstan took part.
Waste from woodworking is used as raw material for pellet manufacturing.
previous competitions were held in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus.
as well as on the coordination of the activities of the EAEU member states on the issues of the eeo and the economic belt of the silk road; on the main directions of economic development of the Eeo; also signed a number of documents on amending the regulations of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, representatives of public organizations, associations of social support of families and crisis centers took part in the award ceremony of exemplary families.
The leaders of the two states discussed priority areas of the Kazakh-Saudi partnership.
according to him, it is proposed to maintain certain qualification requirements and norms for these companies.
As part of the conditional placement programs, subsidizing the remuneration rate, guaranteeing loans, 7,659 projects of women entrepreneurs were financed for a total of 341.2 billion tenge.
his coach yegor mukstadt.
It is worth noting that peuerirus LLP has extensive experience in consulting services in the forest industry.
The President of Kazakhstan also thanked everyone who contributed to the modern history of Kazakhstan.
Together with the Ombudsman's Fund, UNICEF is implementing a first project to improve the situation of violent acts against children in educational and residential institutions of the East Kazakhstan region. creating the ombudsman , together with unicef , we are going to implement a pilot program for the prevention of violence against children in residential and education facilities of east kazakhstan region .
we believe that the activities of the union will protect the interests of the legislative program bodies.
this highest award was presented to the chairman of Kazkosmos by the owner of the anniversary medal, the legendary cosmonaut.
During the meeting, issues related to the current activities of the national bank and monetary policy, ensuring financial stability in the country, as well as lending by banks to the real sector of the economy were discussed.
Sexual offences against minors, terrorism and religious extremism are not included in this category. it will not include sexual offenses against minors , crimes related to terrorism , religious extremism .
for the failure to achieve the direct and final results of budget programs related to the granting of such a right, disciplinary responsibility of the first heads of state bodies and managers of budget programs is introduced, "said the Minister of National Economy of Dossayev.
In addition, taking this opportunity, I wish you the success of the V Congress of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in June this year in the capital, "the governor summed up.
The armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan have a Kazakhstani peacekeeping battalion that determines for this purpose.
I think that the knowledge you received at the National Defense University will help you further improve your professional skills, will contribute to the development of the armed forces as a whole. i think all knowledge acquired at the national defense university will help to improve your professional skills , promote the development of the armed forces .
in particular, regarding Kazakhstan's initiatives towards the peaceful use of nuclear energy, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the abandonment of nuclear weapons has contributed to attracting significant foreign investments in the republic and creating conditions for the modernization of the economy.
I wish all participants of the forum and all Kazakhstanis health, success and new heights, "said Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration Baglan Mailybayev.
I hope that the memorandum signed today will give a special impetus to our ties, "said V. Prokoptsov.
The conference was attended by scientists of leading scientific centers of Kazakhstan and Russia.
440 athletes from 14 regions of the country and cities of Astana and Almaty within two days will compete on a carpet in stepnogorsk city of Stepnogorsk in the weight categories.
the volume of deposits placed in Russian rubles and euros was insignificant - 3.2% and 0.1% of the total volume of deposits placed, respectively.
But our team has very high preparation, and we will make every effort to win.
A project is also being implemented to organize a workshop of recorders and semi-trailers for motor vehicles.
It should be noted that today, according to the results of the 2014-2015 school year, 4407 graduates of 77 schools of the city received certificates, of which 35 were holders of certificates with honors.
In this regard, the parties noted the need to organize a business forum this year with the participation of the business community of the two countries.
Kazakhstan will support the activities of religious leaders and their traditional religious solution. kazakhstan will support the council of religious leaders and its work to promote the ideas and solutions of the world traditional religions .
In 2007-2009, there is a stronger, real crisis.
The fact that our specialists launched this service will allow Kazakhstanis to get information in a matter of seconds, "the head of the Kazpost press service explained to Bairam Aziz.
Recall that as part of a nationwide teleconference with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, work has begun on the launch and repair of JV Kazatomprom LLP.
It is worth noting that since the beginning of the year Kazakhstan paratroopers carried out about 2 thousand jumps, several of which occurred at night.
among them are awards from public and non-governmental organizations, the expert community, and various states.
we want to say that this opinion is wrong.
It is worth noting that today's meeting is ahead in the number of previous meetings. let me emphasize that today 's meeting is superior to the previous meeting by the number and representativeness .
In January-August 2015, the population as a whole in the country increased by 166.4 thousand people or 1.0%, compared to August 1, 2014, the population increased by 253.5 thousand people or 1.46%.
but not everyone managed, we lost people.
The company intends to get rid of loan debt in 5 years.
According to him, this is the only legal environmental initiative in the world, which is approved by all states and is a platform for promoting EXPO-2017.
Taraz Chemical Park JSC will create more than 6 thousand jobs, including up to 4 thousand jobs during construction, up to 2400 jobs at the time of commissioning.
they visited the Bereg training center in Kapchagai, where 4,000 troops, about 1,800 pieces of equipment and weapons, more than 10 battalions of personnel are concentrated.
this will allow the business to get acquainted with the technical features in advance, "said R. beketayev.
if earlier the judicial system in Kazakhstan was five-tier, now it will be transferred to a three-tier system.
development of integration processes on the scale of associations.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues of socio-economic development of the region, preparation for the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate were considered.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, since the beginning of the year, the share of employed graduates of technical and vocational education organizations has been 63.7%.
this reporting has a positive impact on the transparency of the service and increases public confidence in it. this will increase the transparency of the service , the confidence of citizens .
Western investors and entrepreneurs are exploring his talent for opening a business in any country. investors and businessmen of western countries before open a business , learn its index of competitiveness .
According to the Metropolitan, a huge number of conflicts, difficulties and tests before humanity arise in the world.
The remaining districts of the region will be gasified next year.
therefore, in this matter, akims of districts-cities, work.
The head of state stressed that the premises for EXPO-2017 should be transferred to this complex so that there is no need to spend time and money.
Thus, we will not only contribute to the training of qualified personnel, but also provide enterprises and organizations with the necessary specialists, "said the acting deputy director of the regional chamber of leather entrepreneurs.
In accordance with the approved agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Sports and the Italian Archive Committee, unprecedented good initiatives are being taken between the two countries. kazakhstan and italy successfully developed mutual interaction , affecting all sectors of culture and arts .
thus, Kazakhstan comprehensively approaches the updated structure of education.
crisis center - support for single mothers of Kazakhstan.
he said that Germany had extensive experience in energy conservation.
technological principle consists of granule solution. all the processes are automated .
Mortality of the population, including mothers and children, has decreased.
fourth, the possibility of conducting an annual internal audit of cooperatives.
The textbook project will be available for free electronic viewing. the draft of the textbook will be published in e-form in public domain .
At the Abay Theater, the Secretary of State took part in the solemn event "Conscience of Mankind," after which a festive concert was given.
I felt the support of the family, the people.
at a meeting with local executive heads, representatives of public and business groups.
explanations were given on the measures taken in connection with the improvement of fiscal administration, in particular, the integration of fiscal procedures to create a unified access to customs and tax services, the development of a risk management system with the simultaneous centralization, unification of control procedures and its transfer from a burdensome center to a phased one, the report said.
Prizes in the field of science and technology are awarded every two years.
in our family, everyone is talented.	the rest of the children are pupils .	0,79
a team of pupils of republican specialized military boarding schools who attacked a gutter tower captured by conditional terrorists and passed all the tests.	first , the republican specialized team of students of military schools passed all the tests and assaulted the water tower , where  terrorists " were .
in particular, the President of the General Syndicate of Lebanese Agricultural Producers of Arslan emphasized the timeliness of these reforms in modern conditions and expressed confidence that thanks to them Kazakhstan will reach a fundamentally new level of its development.
A good example of this is the opening of an international multimedia center in Baku last year. a striking example of how much attention we pay to these issues is the creation of international center of multiculturalism in baku .
it is necessary to use funds to unite economic problems and create a eurozone, "said the head of state.
In the future, the company plans to implement a number of other projects in Kazakhstan, for which it is also planned to create hundreds of jobs in the country.
during my visit to Brussels last October, an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation was signed, "the head of state said.
the phased expansion of academic and managerial independence of universities begins on the basis of the experience of Nazarbayev University.
Within the framework of the event, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan on behalf of Erlan Idrissov held a meeting on the development of Kazakhstan. for his contribution to the foreign policy of the Republic of Nusupovkazakhstan, the State Consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented a medal named after the Minister of Turekulov.
In the second five-year plan of the industrialization map, it is planned to implement 115 projects totaling 868.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
A meeting of state bodies on registration of Kazakhstani goods and participation of Kazakhstani companies in public procurement was held in Omsk.
also in Pavlodar region more than 100 investment projects, developed business plans that Finnish companies can invest.
these reforms are aimed at industrialization, the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the formation of a single future nation, the creation of a public, accountable state, "the head of state said.
the first is a decrease in oil prices, and the budget would not be replenished from this.
today is a pensioner, he has four children.
In the history of world choreography, there are about 15 ballets about a snowman.
I am happy to live in Kazakhstan, my children and grandchildren grow up here.
it uses different types of technology.
Kazakhstan is one of the top 10 largest wheat exporters, 1 or 2 places for the transportation of wheat flour.
In addition, during the visit, a meeting was held between the Deputy Chairman of the State Department of Tourism of the PRC Li Shihong and a member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese Communist Party of the Shandong-Uygur Autonomous Region.
Kazakhstan is constantly taking measures to create a dimethalogue across the border and culture.
at the same time, according to S. Ntemisov, prices for compacted gas have remained uneven in Kazakhstan for many years.
During the visit of the Chinese delegation to Kazakhstan, representatives of the committee on technical regulation and metrology of the Ministry of Industry and Development discussed the emerging difficulties in controlling the quality of agricultural products of the two countries, tools for simplifying technological control, developing and disseminating special standards in China.
The main goal is to become a model of medical education of other higher educational institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said M. Pignatelli.
today their number is 42.2% of the total number of judges of the first level.
oil prices have more than halved, the ruble has fallen, "said D. Akishev.
most of the applications came from entrepreneurs working in the food industry. most of all applications came from entrepreneurs working in the food industry .
residents noted that in such a situation, the head of state did not ignore himself.
the increase in this indicator is associated with the new criminal and criminal procedure legislation and the list of pre-trial inspections.
I think that today the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" has also become nationwide.
Mr. Asanov noted that the Romanian parties are implementing the necessary procedures for the ratification of this treaty.
it should be noted that this is only the first result of the competition.
different countries have different tables.
Within the framework of concession projects, it is planned to open three more kindergartens.
owners of unmanned aerial vehicles need to comply with regulatory acts and must register them with authorized bodies, the report said.
According to him, every year more than 100 thousand citizens of Kazakhstan travel to European countries without violating the migration regime.
As follows from the message, during the event, guests got acquainted with the history of the creation of the department, its main directions and structure, the main requirements for citizens wishing to become officials in the public service, the museum of state revenue bodies, in particular, a presentation film about the activities of the department was shown there, as well as image leaflets were sent out.
Participants of the competition demonstrated engineering knowledge of firearms and shooting skills, endurance when overcoming the obstacle course with combat equipment, skill in controlling an armored cobra vehicle.
It is worth noting that next week gasification of the Shieli district will begin, then - boiler and island areas.
the implementation of these measures responds to global and domestic threats.
our task is to provide full state support in the necessary amount, to effectively use them in order to increase production efficiency, "he said.
efficiency of targeted use of budget funds. special attention is given to the efficiency of the targeted use of budgetary funds .
The EU is negotiating with Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan to expand the southern gas corridor, "he said.
Since 2010, as part of industrial-developing programs, 50 new industrial facilities have been opened in the region, which today employ more than 5.5 thousand employees.
this transport corridor provides high-quality movement of the border regions of Kazakhstan and Russia and supports exports and imports in the markets of the two countries.
Of these, in the first half of this year, 2 projects worth 12.2 billion tenge were implemented, 420 new jobs were created.
Among the initiatives of the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan is the creation of an investment judicial system.
today, the organization of production of large automobile plants is being discussed. the organization of production around the major automobile factories will be discussed today .
Governor of East Kazakhstan region informed about the situation in industry.
It is worth noting that the exhibition "Chemistry-2015" is one of the authoritative events on chemical topics in Russia.
The countries of the region, where Kazakhstan and Pakistan are located, have always been closely connected in terms of mutual trade and cultural relations.
I will cite Israel as an example, although this country has practically no fertile land, but produces fruits and vegetables on the world market.
Sacrifice brings people to breadth and mercy.
According to census experts, on average in the first quarter of 2015, the list of employees of small enterprises of the region engaged in entrepreneurial activities amounted to 63,414 people, compared to the same period in 2014, an increase of 12.6%.
the index of volume of industrial products in January-June of this year amounted to 119.3% by January-June of last year.
there are no more than a thousand ethnic groups in Kazakhstan, for example, Bulgarians, and the number of Abazis is 56, "said E. Togzhanov.
The interlocutors also discussed the implementation of joint projects in the field of tourism, the establishment of flights in the capitals of the two countries, the presentation of Kazakhstan's tourism potential to Vietnam.
in the nomination of academic singing, the chairman of the jury will be a professor at the Kazakh National University of Arts rope omarbayev.
Currently, agreements have been concluded on the transportation of medical products and thermal insulation products worth $1.2 million.
The Foreign Minister supported the initiative of Kazakhstan to conduct an expo and made a forecast regarding future cooperation.
the impairment of the yuan, if you look at the short-term, will not have such an impact on the Kazakh economy. impairment of the yuan will not affect the economy of kazakhstan .
The plan of the nation attracted great interest from the international expert community and was highly appreciated. the national plan caused a wide resonance and high assessments in the international expert community .
also recommended for participation in the competition for the post of higher service, "he said.
Many of us had children, old people, "the letter says.
I, unlike others, fully understand how important and pleasant this is for children.
indeed, a real miracle can be done here.
The Secretary of State noted that warm and trusting relations have been established between the two countries, and stressed that the leaders of Kazakhstan and Belarus play an important role in strengthening bilateral cooperation.
According to local residents, a ballad dedicated to the singing of akans lived in the village.
In addition, this visit was the first visit of the commissioner of the section in the history of EXPO-2017.
indeed, a ban on leaving the state that is in force today has been introduced. indeed , such measure of restrictions was introduced and today is quite widely used .
As the chief referee of the tournament noted, holding such tournaments will positively affect the development of dialogue between the state and youth.
The sides noted the need to intensify trade and economic cooperation taking into account the existing potential of the two countries.
a vivid example of how representatives of different religions and nationalities of Kazakhstan can live together in harmony with unity. kazakhstan is a good example of how representatives of different nations and religions can live in peace and harmony .
the pilot project is aimed at electronic legal proceedings, expanding their use in places of mass population.
active military training institutions represent all levels and degrees of education and provide training for military specialists from sergeants to officers.
The event will be attended by about 20 institutions of employers of the capital, where the workplaces of security guards, accountants, printing specialists, etc. will be presented.
Kazakhstan belongs to the country of growing demand for food.
the largest polyethylene enterprise in the Kostanay region, located in the city of Rudnoy.
Let leadership and success become a good tradition for you, regardless of which profession you choose in the future, "the minister said.
this is the most important thing.
in general, 71.3% of respondents are satisfied with the work of the courts.
Kazakhstan managed to maintain peace and harmony, unlike most states of the post-Soviet space. kazakhstan has managed to save peace , stability and harmony in the society .
it will be available to all citizens of Kazakhstan.
the funds raised were used to finance the deficit of the republican budget, aimed at implementing development programs as part of a counter-cyclical fiscal policy aimed at supporting economic growth.
medical university shares experience in the development of social medicine, as well as in the provision of rehabilitation assistance.
In accordance with the development of the infrastructure state program "Nұrly zhol" for 2015-2019, Kazavtodor is faced with work on the formation of roads that will unite Kazakhstan with regional regions.
single jakupov - world boxing champion and master of leather gloves RK.
therefore, we cooperate in the conquest of the world atom.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that both countries support each other in the framework of such global organizations as ecu, steam and flexibility.
Special attention is paid to strengthening the role of the innovative infrastructure of universities and research institutes as the most important link, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhip.
in addition, n. As Nazarbayev added, the Museum of Peace and Harmony will become a scientific institution of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
The Governor of the region noted that agricultural workers need to systematically approach work with land, update agricultural machinery, pay close attention to work with rural personnel.
we buy a third of the necessary volume from Russia. kazakhstan purchases the third part of oil products mainly in russia .
According to the press service, eans courses have been traditional and have been organized in Europe for many years.
then he visited the Munaymash joint-stock company, examined the industrial workshops of the enterprise and met with young specialists who were educated in the dual education system.
over the years, the capital and Tokyo have become reliable partners, we always support each other.
The Minister noted that "with limited financial resources, funds will be redistributed to priority areas, the optimization of funding for state and sectoral programs will continue and be completed."
Members of public councils at the Karaganda regional branch of the Nұr Otan party, as well as the department of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption were invited to the meeting.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
in particular, we consider it as an important factor in improving the quality of the country's human capital.
These measures will save our country from dependence on fuel and lubricants, "said the deputy.
In the future, overhaul of orphanages in the city of Sandyktau, the school, ishil and stepnogorsk will be carried out.
A meeting of the interstate commission was held, which will continue to be held in the future, where all the issues raised to date will be comprehensively discussed, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
During a visit to the main command post, aviation bases and air defense brigades, representatives of the two countries exchanged experience on the organization and conduct of joint combat duty, as well as the state and prospects for the development of weapons and military equipment within the framework of the combined air defense system.
To date, 2.4 thousand head of cattle have been purchased in this area.
As it became known, 29 seminars were held in the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Aktobe region for 29 consultants of district centers.
Italy, as an EU country, has done a lot of work in the international arena, it would be very interesting if we took on the best technologies and experience, "he said.
to date, there is no definition of the middle category. today , unfortunately , there is no clear definition of the middle class .
Recall, on May 5, 2015, President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed the law "On Amending and Supplementing Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Natural Monopolies and Regulated Markets."
The agency has two main tasks: reducing technological gaps in traditional metallurgy, geology, agriculture in accordance with the tasks and tasks of the head of state.
At the same time, as a result of working meetings, the Kazakh Institute of Standardization and Certification and the Chinese Standardization Administration (sac) agreed to conclude a bilateral memorandum on mutual recognition of national standards and training
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the Vice Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Yesengaz Imangaliyev, a representative of the Unicef Children's Fund and methodologists, teachers from all over the country took part in it.
this is a high-tech modern innovative production using the latest world research in the field of food products, pharmaceutical and medical technologies.
the mission of the academy, that is, the main task is to support gifted children from all regions and regions of the country, to create the necessary conditions for the comprehensive education and upbringing of a new generation of art masters.
in addition, the production of knitted and textile products has been established in Japanese production, "S. Shauenova added.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted that at present there has been a period of active implementation of five institutional reforms and the Nur Otan party plays an important role in this work, in connection with which it is necessary to strengthen its activities in all main areas.
In addition, within the public sector in the region there are 28 units providing assistance at home, 643 social workers provide assistance to 2,000 924 people.
As the head of the department noted, the main task of the national bank is to interpret the inflation forecast and return the indicator to the corridor.
You're raising a very relevant question. he expects us to make concrete proposals .
The Supreme Court has developed a draft code of ethics for judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the supreme court has developed a draft code of ethics for judges of kazakhstan .
in connection with the completion of the work, a method of producing the seabed is provided.
As noted, the document limits the content of hydrogen sulfide, methyl, ethyl mercaptan and a number of other dangerous chemical compounds in oil.
At the fair, producers of 16 districts and 3 cities of Almaty region, as well as the social and entrepreneurial company Zhetysu presented to residents of Almaty 280.3 tons of high-quality and environmentally friendly products of 70 types at prices below market prices.
in many developed States, emphasis is placed on light industry. great attention and importance are paid to light industry in many developed countries .
Since 2005 in the 1st quarter of 2015 Kazakhstan has been allocated more than $1.8 billion of Turkish foreign direct investment. since 2005 , turkey invested more than $ 1.8 billion direct funds .
the main goal of these studies is to determine in which areas of the economy and in which region entrepreneurship can be developed, taking into account the specifics of the region, and what conditions are necessary for today's business. the key objective of these studies is to get answers to questions , in what sectors and in what regions is it possible and advisable to develop business taking into account a regional perspective and opportunities , and what conditions are needed for this business today .
after all the winners have undergone combat training, they will face personal decoration of professional stylists and a photo shoot.
The National Bank assumes the exemption of the socially vulnerable part of the population from the state duty when refinancing mortgages. national bank will take charge of the payment of state duties for socially vulnerable segments of the population .
if the financial owner does not want to keep his money in the bank for 5 years and uses these funds in the authorized funds, he pays a fee of 10 percent.
the remaining 335 houses will be fully connected by November 10 according to the schedule.
this is the first historical step of Kazakhstan towards the Pacific Ocean.
I honestly serve my country, "said A. Ayymbetov at the award ceremony.
pastures and hayfields are watered, giving impetus to the agricultural sector.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the Mayor drew attention to the quality of construction and the timing of the construction of two 75-apartment residential buildings.
and only a small part of it can be included in economic turnover.
in my opinion, the expansion of the currency corridor will not affect us in any way. i think that the expansion of the exchange rate band does not threaten us .
He also noted that a special football arena will be built for the academy.
The report notes that in 2011, under the program of modernization of apartment buildings in Kokshetau, more than 60 residential buildings were repaired.
So, to date, more than 97 thousand students are studying in our country, in 37 schools, as well as in 171 mixed schools in Uzbek, Tajik, Uighur languages.
According to the press service of the EEC, today the draft nomenclature consists of three sections: agricultural products; food products, food products.
in my opinion, Khan Shatyr "will contribute to the wide recognition and development of the national game.
Since the 18th century, about 10 ballets have been staged about each of them.
today, 74 people work at the plant, of which 56 are in production.
this is due to the introduction of information technologies in the judicial system.
According to him, we agreed to place the bank in our country.
I congratulate the representatives of the CIS creative and intelligentsia who gathered at the forum. i congratulate all the representatives of the intellectual elite of the cis .
It is expected that a separate substation will be installed in the hospital and heated with natural gas.
this measure restricted the access of foreign tourists to popular tourist sites, which required a special capacity issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
I think that the main document adopted in 1995 will contribute to the further development of the country, "he said.
According to him, we have specific mechanisms and programs that work in our country, and it is important that these programs be used by product manufacturers.
According to the capital Expo 2017, the host country travels to Paris twice a year for a detailed report, which indicates high control over the implementation of the project.
experts spoke about tools and effective business technologies in various areas in an interactive format and on the example of specific cases.
additional package includes provision of highly specialized assistance, stationary assistance.
that is, your country is moving towards scientific and technological progress in the field of energy.
international diplomatic and public works are held on this day.
The volume of investments increases by an average of 20-25 percent annually and last year reached 348 billion tenge, which is 2 times the level of 2010.
car race "My Point" led by Olympic champion Serik Sapiev began with a triumphant arch.
In this regard, the head of state expressed support for the initiatives of B. Obama in this direction.
In this regard, this year the implementation of a program for the construction of fattening grounds above 3,000 copies was launched in order to create an infrastructure for industrial fattening of cattle with whites and increase the volume of export-oriented beef production, "the report said.
In addition, a number of events are planned to be organized between August and September this year. during august and september it is also planned to hold a series of events .
Legislative provisions provide for the transfer of samples of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors for comparative study, as well as the replacement of new samples of seized drugs and their precursors.
According to the expert, in museums there are unique opportunities that no one has.
the grain export capacity development programme will take several stages.
The President of Kazakhstan also during a meeting with the President of China Xi Jinping and the Prime Minister of the State Council of China Li Keqiang noted that interaction in the transport and logistics sector is one of the priority issues.
I express my readiness together with you to ensure stable ties of our states, raise relations to a new level, as well as expand bilateral strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China for the benefit of the peoples of the two countries, "the congratulation says.
"The use of solid minerals crisco through the introduction of a system of international standards for mass reporting will increase the tremor of the oil and gas industry," the report said on website 74.
In addition, this includes the transition to a three-step judicial system, the expansion of the scope of the jury, the competence of the investigating judge, the strengthening of the accountability of judges and the creation of a new code of ethics for judges.
second-tier banks allocated loans to the economy in the amount of 2,280,2 billion tenge, which is 21% more compared to the same period last year, lending to small businesses increased by 1.8 times.
In order to systematize training, it is necessary to develop and publish comprehensive textbooks, dictionaries, programs, organize the composition of the center's teachers using distance learning opportunities online, "he added.
The competition is based on respect for the elders, love for the younger, love for the loved ones, "said the eldest daughter of the sculptor family.
the readiness of harvesters for the upcoming irrigation was 95%.
he noted that cooperation between the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan and Russia is successfully carried out in a multilateral as well as bilateral format.
It is noted that the funds of the preferential loan will be used to purchase raw materials, materials and packages.
they were created by the Kazakh Academy of Nutrition, enriched with various necessary vitamins, increase immunities and performance, "said A. Ayymbetov.
According to the results of the work, out of 12,072 citizens who applied, 7,805 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2,255 people received applications for changing their details, and 2012 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 12,432 citizens who applied, 8,078 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2,305 people received applications to change their details, 2,049 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
in this regard, an initiative was launched to create integration currency markets.
The document on cooperation was signed by the rector of the university named after L. Humilev.
We know what shortcomings there are, including on the issue of parking, all this is necessarily resolved. we know there are some disadvantages , including a problem with parking spaces , which will certainly be addressed .
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan noted that this event is a good opportunity to unite for a promising future for everyone.
The Director General of the magate also noted that Kazakhstan, which has a rich history in terms of strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime, as well as all the necessary infrastructure, is the most worthy candidate for the placement of such a bank.
in our team, we count on turlybaeva, shekerbekova, darig shakimov and enjoying Kungebayev.
According to him, the construction of a high-voltage "ekibastuz-families-growth" line with a length of 1,559 km has begun.
North Kazakhstan region maintains contacts with more than 70 countries of the world.
In January-June 2015, products produced by small and medium-sized enterprises decreased by 7.9% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 1275,762 million tenge.
Our negotiators have reached the presence of Kazakh content in the procurement of works and services. our negotiators have achieved compliance with kazakhstan 's content when purchase of works and services .
the development of a transport heart attack is very important, so we should approve the modern silk road and this tourist product, "the head of state said.
Earlier, Kazakhstan diesel locomotives were exported to Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Ukraine, Turkmenistan.
We pay great attention to methods of education and education of preschool institutions.	according to him , the program  balapan " is a prime example of successful cooperation between government and business .
In the second direction of the program, a special quota of 146.8 million tenge was allocated for lending to persons with disabilities and for serving the population in the field of agriculture.
already, the heated dialogue between Eeo and Shu provides the optimal basis for the upcoming transcontinental close cooperation.
Recall that today the National Bank and the Government of Kazakhstan have decided to remove the currency corridor and switch to a free exchange rate.
Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov will take part in the press conference.
Also, the exhibition pavilion of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the Palace of Peace and Harmony was presented to the Bulgarian national costume.
In particular, as part of the program, we plan to build the first plant in Kazakhstan for the production of transformers of 220 and 500 kV voltage class in Shymkent, "said the chairman of the board of directors of alageum electric erkebulan ilyas.
all laws adopted must comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will affect the development of the domestic market, there are different points of view in this area. kazakhstan 's accession to the wto develops the domestic market .
in general, the relevant amendments are made to the Code of Administrative Offenses, the laws "on culture," "on physical culture and sports."
In total, by the end of the year, three schools with 2,675 seats will be commissioned.
As the head of state noted, today Kazakhstan is one of the fastest growing economies in the world.
children's deposits are replenished until they reach the age of majority by representatives of local executive bodies, deputies and entrepreneurs.
a meeting with local executive heads, members of the public and the business community.
according to him, within the framework of iidb, the agency will compensate for technical delays in traditional industries and give priority to the development of new sectors of the economy.
in the first reading, it is planned to discuss changes and additions to the legislation on culture and historical and cultural heritage and the activities of non-governmental organizations.
also purchased materials for heating the first level lifting station.
mediation is not just a fashionable word, but mediation is a requirement of time. mediation is not just a word , it is the requirement of time .
Recently, there are many opinions and discoveries around the history of Kazakhstan, all of them contradict each other, "said A. Gibner.
also near the cave, an axe of kenesara khan was discovered.
v.bisters told the Governor of the region that the holding ren teh is important for the implementation of the investment project in the act.
Given the current situation in Tajikistan, affected by floods and floods, the commission recommended that the Government of Kazakhstan provide official humanitarian assistance to the country.
thus it is possible to supply cargo from China to the Transcaucasian countries, Europe, Turkey.
today's exhibition is dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. this exhibition is dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
During the conference, the role of the Turkish kaganate in the development of the Kazakh nation and the formation of Kazakh statehood was noted.
In turn, he thanked for the assistance in training Afghan students in the country, as well as for the significant support provided during natural disasters in Afghanistan.
The main important work of the expedition is the discovery of the wintering of the Kerei Khan, which is not yet well known to the historical community, "says the data distributed by the Department of Internal Policy.
automation of the process of organizing business tasks, paperwork, payment for cargo transportation, preliminary electronic information.
Therefore, we made a proposal for the use of these terminals, the adoption of an individual program for their distribution, "he said.
a student of this university, Victoria Zyabkina, won a gold medal in the 100 m, 200 m and 4x100 m races along with Julia Rakhmanova, Svetlana Ivanchukova and anastasia tulapina.
our troops always carefully defend the sovereignty of our country, the constitution is the main law of our state, due to its strict implementation, the political, cultural, social and spiritual development of the country is advancing.
In addition, in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, reporting meetings of heads of local executive bodies, akims and rectors of national universities will be mandatory.
At the age of 10-12 years - 1st place - Khalevich Lyudmila, 2nd place - bakhtiyar deputies, dauren suleimen, 3rd place - grigoriev angelina, nurteke iman, playchaver Tatyana.
among them - the world champion in Greco-Roman wrestling among military personnel, which took place in Iran in 2013, the bronze medalist of the Greco-Roman wrestling championship among military personnel in 2014, corlan jakansha, the bronze medalist of the 35th world judo championship among military personnel in 2013 and others.
- this is a real opportunity for start-up entrepreneurs to promote their project, draw up specific business plans, meet with investors and, most importantly, receive start-up capital, "concluded the chairman of the council of the Future Association.
this project is the largest renewable energy source in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As part of the simplification of procedures for conducting public procurement, the bill provides for the introduction of a tender using preliminary qualification selection, as well as the simplification of the procedure for holding a tender and auction, "said Serikzhan Kanaev, member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis.
The head of state noted that for many years since the closure of the landfill, the landfill has supported our country.
implementation of the three-tier language - a policy aimed at creating conditions for the development of other nationalities in the republic, which will become a factor in the consolidation of the Kazakh people. implementation of the trinity of language - is the policy on development of other nationalities , it is the unifying factor of the people .
By order of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 26, 2015 No. 3-4/14, a working group was created to determine the main requirements of the technical assignment for investment projects for the construction of feedstuffs and to develop a mechanism for financing them (hereinafter - a working group).
he also made recommendations on the development and improvement of the efficiency of the national budget.
a vegetable fair was held in Kostanay, 40 tons of products were presented, including 20-30% cheaper than market prices for vegetables and fruits - 40 tons, potatoes - 20 tons.
It is worth noting that the main goal (www.rpo.kz) of creating an Internet platform is to involve the population in the modernization of the law enforcement sphere, to establish dialogue with all citizens who are not indifferent to the qualitative improvement of the country's law enforcement system.
l. n. scientists of the Gumilev Eurasian National University are actively participating in the study of the problems of the Kazakh Khanate, "E. Sydykov added.
the tasks of the republican competition of excellent students of their profession - improving the professional qualifications of the most sought-after representatives of working specialties; stimulation of creative, cognitive and social activity of representatives of workers' specialties; increasing the importance of working specialties and awakening interest in them; promoting the positive reputation of working professions among young people.
our sailors pay special attention to combat shooting, as they will compete in the sea biathlon with the best snipers of Turkmenistan, Russia and Azerbaijan.
Recall that the Government of Kazakhstan has included 60 large companies in the list of priorities for republican property.
As noted by the President of Kazakhstan, experience a. Yessimova is currently necessary for organizing and holding an EXPO in the capital.
in the first shooting, recruits showed good results.
3 thousand 943 people were prosecuted for criminal actions.
It is necessary to give preference to the speeches of domestic cultural figures. it is necessary to prioritize the performances of the kazakhstani figures of culture .
The second direction is the creation of a future community with the efficient use of hydrogen. "
this will improve the location of the city on the world stage, increase its tourist attractiveness and show the technological development of the capital, "said A. Yessimov.
if a citizen has good, demanding potential, the state is also successfully developing.
previously this company produced bearings for passenger and freight cars, diesel locomotives and electric locomotives.
The global financial and economic crisis has become a great lesson for all of us.
there were cases when such documents were rejected, "said E. Brasulov.
in the manufacturing industry, the volume of production amounted to 520.8 billion tenge, the volume index amounted to 112.6%.
according to their estimates, representatives of the fund have a very conservative capitalization policy and can use petition costs.
For 8 years, the festival has proved to be a successful project. for eight years the festival has proved to be very successful .
However, thanks to the customs zone, the placement of enterprises for investors is carried out on favorable terms, "said D. Anasov.
And today, the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate once again became an occasion to appeal to the historical values ​ ​ of our people, "I. rogov explained.
This can be noticed due to the large number of projects that begin with the words "apple."	teams will present their projects to an expert commission of technation , then only 40 teams will be selected .	0,80
and at the end of the season, tour operators withdraw their money on deposit.	in case of market collapse , tourists will be returned at the expense of these deposit .	0,80
kindergarten is designed for 320 places.	it 's the 320-seats kindergarten .	0,80
children live in cottage houses.	i was a graduate of the orphanage .	0,80
In total more than 300 athletes.	in total more than 300 soldiers .	0,80
in our country, the concept of charity and philanthropy is widely used.
the company will simultaneously produce construction materials and reinforced concrete products, "the report said.
sheep, camels and horses.
The memorandum provides for an increase in the pace of application of new postal codes, the establishment of address boards and city maps.
According to him, over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has gone the active way of modernization, a new institute of economics has been created and a social society is being formed.
the park has been modernized with an interactive watermelon.
your organization works with many nations around the world to protect the rights of children. your organization works with many countries around the world on issues of children 's rights .
trade and tourism are growing.
According to the results of the work, 13,484 citizens who applied received consultations on the registration of social payments to 8,682 situational, 2,542 people received applications to change their details, 2,260 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
The main goal of social projects is to provide real assistance to the above categories of citizens.
Jasotan residents in the framework of the "clean session" increased the number of visits and offered to hold these events in universities and other educational institutions.
such adaptation will lead to a sharp decline in the real exchange rate of the local currency, a reduction in jobs in the construction and services sector in the domestic market, impairment of assets, and a weakening of the financial sector, in which a number of assets are in dollars.
the parties noted the great potential for strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation, including within the eurozone.
Prominent representatives of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism and other traditional religions took part in previous meetings of the congress.
The role of trade unions has been expanded to protect the rights and interests of workers, including taking into account the opportunities provided for in the recently adopted Trade Unions Act.
web-portal for identification of farm animals (abhb) web-portal keeps a census of animals and is obligatory to assign an individual number and a veterinary passport, to enter information about animals in the online system (sex, seeds, age, information about the owner of the animal).
According to him, the labor market - the employer determines the professionalism of future graduates and sends them to universities as a consultation.
the second important factor affecting prices is energy.
I think that your first official visit will give a huge impetus to the strategic cooperation of our countries. i am confident that your first official visit will give a powerful impetus to the entry of our relations , strategic partnership into a new level .
at the same time, the state will pay contributions for the population with low economic activity.
The head of the region also noted that the state always provides support to entrepreneurs who want to develop small and medium-sized businesses.
The procedure developed in the future is sent for consideration to a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council.
then you come to our former capital Almaty.
When will the two children be at the same height?
textbooks are in the process of being developed, and member countries are making proposals for the revision and content of the programme.
their development, the desire to find their place in society, patriotic position determine the future of the state.
In the 2 km race, the luger did not run ahead.
In addition, the Kazakh delegation met with the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan, who noted to fellow countrymen the great role of the head of state in the creation and development of eo.
the executive director of the fund is confident that Kazakhstan and world literature, art historians will show new names.
Today, the second five-year plan is being implemented, where the development of the processing industry is a priority. today , the state launched the second five-year plan , the perspective of the manufacturing industry is the main direction .
specific geographical location of the region, a high percentage of investments of world companies, leaders in the field of metal processing of caps, saipam and rosette, "said akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev.
The Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mukhtarov congratulated the graduates and presented certificates of completion of the course.
to ensure an increase in the number of jobs, it is necessary to modernize, develop entrepreneurship, collect the production of oil automotive equipment on the basis of the enterprise.
Issues relating to the state of environmental safety and environmental protection measures.
According to Kommersant's interlocutors, strengthening legal cooperation between the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union within the framework of economic integration is an important consolidating factor aimed at solving common strategic tasks to ensure the rule of law and strengthen international and regional security.
landscaping of the territory is carried out by municipal farms, as this is their area of ​ ​ activity.
gradually this region became the center of civilization.
In this regard, Abdikalikova noted that Kazakhstan is confident that within the framework of the Geneva process, the Syrian authorities and representatives of the opposition will continue negotiations.
residents of Mangistau region, representatives of public associations, ethnocultural centers, intellectuals, employees of various enterprises, youth paid attention to the systematic development of important social spheres, including health care and education in the country.
The decision to create such a choir was made at the 32nd meeting of the Permanent Council of Ministers of Culture of Turkic Language, held last November in Kazan.
in connection with this anniversary, the city of Taraz was landscaped.
Cadet Corps of the Republic of Kazakhstan named after Sh. Valikhanov - an educational institution for the training of qualified military personnel of junior command personnel.
Issues of legalization in Kazakhstan were submitted to the state commission on economic modernization, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said.
The main issues that we discussed today are training and continuing training of specialists for the naval forces of Kazakhstan in educational institutions of Korea, training of special forces in training centers of the Korean Navy. the main issues we discussed today - training of the naval forces of kazakhstan in korean schools , in training centers of the korea navy .
Today, 5.8 thousand joint ventures are open and successfully operating, "said Vladimir Putin.
K. Sarybay noted Kazakhstan's interest in expanding investments between the two countries, intensifying bilateral relations in the field of culture and education.
Today Kazakhstan is the largest Indian partner in the region.
there has always been a time when oil prices, metal have risen in price. the cycle of constantly growing prices for oil and metals has been ended .
The bill provides for amendments and additions to the codes of civil and administrative offenses, as well as to three laws related to architecture, urban planning, state control and supervision, and state property.
As the political scientist noted, this trip indicates that the capital and Beijing have actively begun to implement the silk road economic belt project.
logistics, on this item we occupy more than 80th place.
This was made possible thanks to measures to support enterprises in the framework of the state program to support small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the manufacturing industry.
These are very important issues, professional managers with high moral qualities should come to the civil service, as in other developed countries, "the expert said.
One of the days filled with sleds is considered seasonal days for 4 pupils of the urban orphanage.
Pursuant to the national plan "100 steps of State-building implementation," aimed at implementing 5 institutional reforms, amendments were made to improve the activities of the specialized panel established at the Supreme Court to consider investment disputes with the participation of large investors and representatives of the international council at the Supreme Court.
Projects financed by the bank in the field of energy are aimed at improving energy efficiency.
According to the press service of the Chamber, the parties discussed topical issues of the development of Kazakh-Bulgarian bilateral relations.
I think we need to continue the development of the worldskills movement in Kazakhstan so that we have many victories, "said Sergey Belonosov, national champion of the Kazakhstani worldskills movement, participant in the international championship under the article" cook business. "
The man's gold factory is the only garment factory in Kazakhstan with a full production cycle.
The capital is the only city in the country that is fully implementing a program to eliminate abandoned heating networks.
In addition, the city's enterprises produce more than a thousand different types of goods that grow annually.
Therefore, from the first day of the session, we must begin intensive work, "K. Zhakupov said.
in the category "Song of the dombra of folk music," the main prize was received by the grace mayasar.
For example, the UK uses alternative energy sources of 19%, Costa Rica - 90%, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
To date, 500 participants have come to the event instead of 300.
Kazakhstan, as a participant in global processes, actively participates in the discussion of peace agreements. "
During the visit, the head of state is expected to sign bilateral memoranda on the announcement of a single logo of enterprises.
a person forever preserved in the hearts of the native people of Abai. "
this convention is called the most important legacy of EXPO-2015.
100% of the project is financed from its own funds, the report said.
During the project, more than 19 jobs will be created.
According to Igor Rybas, General Director of the Peter and Paul Heating Network, the most difficult aspects of construction, such as pouring concrete, have been completed, and pipeline installation has begun.
In addition, as part of the visit, the head of the region visited the sowing area of ​ ​ Yesil-agro LLP.
To improve the quality of the work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, it is proposed to introduce a norm providing for annual reporting of kha to the head of state and the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
To solve this problem, the bill will consider the standardization of documents necessary for preliminary discussion of the technical specification and inspection.
the relevance of taking under party control compliance with the legality of spending budget funds and funds of the national fund in the implementation of state and sectoral programs.
five satellite receivers receive information on more than 1000 channels around the world.
the academy takes on this responsibility, since no one in the country teaches "personnel."
Today, Belarus successfully and consistently implements a unique model of socio-economic development aimed at improving the well-being of its citizens, the congratulation says.
despite its history, we are convinced that close cooperation and mutual cultural ties are the foundation of peace and development for all mankind. this fact may serve as a ground for uniting the efforts of the global community for ensuring nuclear weapons free world , " he stressed .
now they are separated from the rank of "cadet" by three competitive stages, that is, a cardinal medical examination, the last professional selection and the course of a young fighter.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that experience and authority. Myrzakhmetov is needed in the leadership of the party "Nұr Otan," which is currently the country's leading political force.
We really liked the competition, in addition, there are a lot of large families in Kazakhstan who deserve the attention of society. we like the competition , we participate in it with great pleasure , moreover , there are a lot of families in kazakhstan who deserve the attention and admiration .
The head of the city noted the high level of Kazakh-South Korean relations, including trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian, medical ties and brotherhood with the city of tai Almaty.
Number of transactions without restriction.
now the highest age specifics are excluded in Kazakhstan, so blood can be passed indefinitely if you allow health and be confident in yourself.
there are no problems between us that have not been agreed or solved in each area of ​ ​ life, "said President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The event was organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Singapore and the national agency for export and investment "kaznex invest" with the support of singapore business federation.
employees of the plant are provided with food, home delivery, health and life insurance, personal protective equipment: helmets, safety glasses, special shoes, overalls. for the employees , we provided food , health and life insurance , personal protection equipment .
consequently, the courts began to apply an alternative type of punishment.
In turn, political civil servants receive a mandate from the people to implement a policy that should honestly fulfill the mandate, "said A.Baimenov.
the products we talked about today are the most stable currency for today.
my first article on Kassym Khan was published in a sovereign Kazakh newspaper in 1995.
Also, with the immediate conclusion of the contract, the employer can extend the indefinite time to 12 months, "the minister said.
we will take care of them while we can, "said the eldest daughter of the family.
Note that the grand opening of the team continued with the ceremony of awarding recipients of the title "Honorary Railway Worker."
events will be combined into one theme and grouping.
scientists are invited to give the name of the Alikhan to the Eurasian National University named after Lion Gumilev. scientists propose to name the eurasian national university after leader of " alash " national liberation movement alikhan bukeikhan .
during this time, the borrower will have time to plant a crop, collect it and put it up for auction.
to increase sales of objects as part of privatization, measures were simplified during bidding, "he said.
the parties exchanged views on the importance of consular cooperation and the benefits of these consultations, as well as on topical issues of interaction.
Kazakhstan is interested in organizing joint events on mountain training, training of combat swimmers, the action of special units of the armed forces in urban conditions.
According to Issekeshev, following the results of the last government meeting, a comprehensive plan was developed and adopted, 4 points of which were implemented, 2 - implemented.
under the aparubus program, bus tickets can be purchased through special ticket offices or through the aparubus.kz website without leaving home, "said A. Nurlybaeva.
we discussed the agenda of the supreme council, that is, it contains 15 issues, two of which will be the main ones.
this is a guarantee of stability, a guarantee of agreement.
the most important part of the state program "Kazakhstan is the silk road."
According to the head of the region, it is necessary to increase the production capacity of local enterprises and increase the range of products.
On an area of ​ ​ more than 60,000 square meters there is a congress hall, a palace of celebrations, an electronic library, cinemas.
the fight against terrorism was becoming a major issue on the international agenda. these are pakistan , afghanistan , iraq , india , nigeria , " - he said .
aa. According to Imangaliyev, the Ministry of Education and Science transferred the first tranches to basic educational institutions.
A decision is also envisaged on the deadline for granting citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Oralmans within a year after obtaining a residence permit, "the Vice Minister said.
thirdly, do not try to create a silicone valley, if we create favorable conditions, it will be created independently.	we hope it will happen soon ,  the prime minister of the republic of kazakhstan told .
Kazakhstan's application is the country's foreign policy sphere, which is of particular importance in solving the international agenda.
Chairman of the Board of JSC Institute of Economic Research of Kazakhstan Mahmud Mukhanov and director of the Center for Strategic Research and Economic Research, as well as an expert from Russia Vitaly Sidnev (Moscow) will take part in the press conference.
medical organizations of Karaganda region will replenish another 209 graduates.
As a result, by the end of the year, repairs will be carried out on the roofs of 5 residential buildings, operational stairs for 2 residential buildings will be replaced and another 2 will be restored. as a result , roofs overhaul in 5 houses , and elevators repair in 2 houses ; facades repair of two houses will be completed by 2016 .
flowering - teacher, nurlan - driver, love for the child.
In 2014, our center received 7.5% of appeals, which is 190 allegations of violation of the rights of the child. our center it received 7.5 % complaints related to violation of the rights of children - 190 appeals .
Thus, the bill is aimed at increasing the pension provision of citizens, encouraging their participation in the pension system and ensuring a unified approach to all employees of armed groups in the issue of pension provision.
the share of interbank deposits in foreign currency amounted to 96.6% of the total volume of deposits placed.
today we participate in a dance flash mob together with children and pupils of the house of groups mband and via gra.
The bill contains the issues of attracting foreign specialists (citizens who voluntarily arrived in Kazakhstan to work) outside the quota and without permission, introducing a certificate of conformity of qualifications, evaluating foreign workers according to the point system. the draft law permits to involve foreign experts , arrived on their own without quota and permits , to introduce certificates of conformity of their qualifications , a point system assessment of workers .
As Cardinal Jean-Louis Toran, President of the Pontifical Council, noted, the participants agreed that religious leaders will exchange views on establishing stability and harmony with politicians and civil society.
I don't think that the expedition participants are waiting for news, the purpose of which is to visit historical places and increase interest, "he said.
combat training of the naval forces of Russia, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan proved that these are rich Caspian states, "said Vice Admiral Viktor Kochemazov, head of the competition.
As a result, the operation was successfully completed, representatives of the criminal group were detained and taken to headquarters.
According to the Minister, the Ministry of Culture and Sports is one of the main implementers of the reform to strengthen national identity and Kazakh unity.
In it, R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the investment climate of Kazakhstan, sources of favorable trade for Vietnamese business, investment and tourism, about the large-scale work carried out by Kazakhstan in preparation for the exhibition, familiarized the Vietnamese business community with the conditions for participating in the expo 2017.
he spoke about the development of Kazakh-Austrian cooperation.
Also during the visit, members of the delegation visited the country's livestock complexes and got acquainted with the work of veterinary organizations.
this document is aimed at the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Optimization and Automation of Public Services in the Social and Labor Sphere."
on the instructions of the head of state to simplify the procedure for legalizing property and in order to prevent illegal prosecution by law enforcement agencies, a special bill was developed, "said a. Tengebaev.
huge potential in the trade and economic sphere, centuries-old friendly, cultural and historical ties have made us spiritually close nations.
The participants of the event were presented with a photo stand depicting the capital, a Canadian correspondent, a professional photographer who visited Kazakhstan in April this year, the baum reported on the capital of Kazakhstan.
free residence in the student's house, rest in the tulpars recreation center, and the provision of monetary assistance - all this is provided.
As the expert noted, the arrival of the holy throne in the capital at the congress is held at a high level.
Currently, land preparation is underway at this facility.
A number of bilateral meetings are also planned within the framework of the visit.
A clear and transparent direction was chosen as the special themes of the presentation of the all-Kazakh culture, revealing the geopolitical role of Kazakhstan in the world, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
According to the representative of the DDU, a lot of work is being done in Kazakhstan to improve the conditions associated with blood donation.
The heads of state also exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
Within the framework of the August meeting of education workers, a panel session "The main program for the modernization of moral and spiritual education - schools" is held.
the parties expressed mutual interest and identified specific projects implemented on this initiative.
the pupil will walk at this level until higher education.
The Director General of Heb informed the Head of Government about the organization's current work and prospects for cooperation with Kazakhstan.
I think that for this you need to place the country's goods, because lianyungang will become a new major logistics center.
As a result of this work, in 2015-2016 it is planned to implement a pilot project on the basis of open source solutions.
peoples living on Kazakh land are connected by one story, "said B.Kaipova.
r. opovich added that this year a skull of an operated person was discovered in the neighboring treasury.
the slowdown in mutual trade due to falling export prices and instability in foreign exchange markets. there is a decline in mutual trade , caused by a decrease in export prices and the volatility of currency markets .
the society of universal labor, as referred to by the head of state, should be based primarily on intellectual and human capital.
The head of state visited the ethnoaul, organized in honor of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate with the participation of representatives of all regions of the country.
In the same 2013, in the area of ​ ​ the Titov microdistrict, 1 first 24-apartment residential building was built and commissioned.
obtaining reliable and comparative information on the state of the environment, biological diversity and ecological systems, sources of anthropogenic impact, habitat factors affecting the environmental safety of the country, as well as the state of health of the population.
Kazakhstan proposes to create a guarantee fund on the basis of the white fund "Kazakhstan Mortgage Loan Guarantee Fund" to create a system for reconciling equity deposits.
Chairman of the Board of samruk-energy amadam satkaliyev emphasized that transformation is a complex multilateral process for achieving the strategic goals of the company.
According to the Vice Minister, the number of scientists has doubled.
the estimated cost of the project could be $38.5 million.
During the meeting Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted the close cooperation of Kazakhstan with the organizers of EXPO-2015 and stressed the importance of the experience of the Italian exhibition as the most successful exhibition in the last decade.
money, securities, interest in the capital of legal entities, etc.
Agreements have been concluded with contracting organizations to preserve these jobs and attract 90% of Kazakhstanis.
As a result of the employment work, changes were made to the regulatory regulations on the privatization of housing and copyright.	ye.abdykadyrov also concluded :  as the result of the work done , the working group has made changes to the regulatory statute on the privatization of property and copyright .
that is, sports equipment and relevant techniques.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan once again congratulated everyone on the holiday and wished every Shanyrak well-being.
The purpose of the constitutional bill is to create the international financial center "Capital," which provides favorable and attractive conditions for the activities of the center participants, taking into account international best practices, "said the Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
small and medium-sized businesses work well in Pavlodar, so it is necessary to involve him in work from logistics to the organization of transport services, the food system, protection, "said Zhamanbekov, referring to manufacturers.
I held relevant negotiations with the Dubai leadership on this issue and on the formation of a unified legislation to conduct work in English and create all conditions, "the president said.
the location of the atom was chosen by the international atomic energy agency, and, according to representatives of this organization, the Ulbi plant has highly qualified specialists with extensive experience in working with the appropriate infrastructure and necessary technologies, using nuclear materials, "said B. Sadikov.
13 crop projects are 12 granaries and 1 greenhouse.
the mood of the pilots is cheerful, we hope to take a prize.
there are good reasons for this, one of which is the high volume of investment in 2014.
the program provides for the acquisition of feedlot and financing of feedlot services, as well as the introduction of accelerated technologies that reduce the cost of beef and ensure competitiveness in domestic and foreign markets.
As the Minister noted, the flexibility of legislation is important not only for investors, but also, first of all, for enterprises that are the source of employment for jobs.
Within the framework of the congress on June 10-11, famous surgeons from Russia, France, Georgia and Uzbekistan will hold master classes in endoscopic and laparoscopic urology at the scientific center of urology.
Turkvision is an unprecedented contest of modern pop song, the participants of which participate depending on the origin, and not on the geographical division.
all meetings were of the nature of friendship and mutual understanding.
our constitution has given us a solid basis, compared to other countries, our constitution is much more effective, "he said.
including industrial commodity production, food.
According to him, the development of tourism has many methods, such as subsidizing transport, opening new transport routes and improving service.
among them - nurmagambet sagadat, small gabdullin and a famous pilot, twice awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union.
at the plant, representatives of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Defense and Security got acquainted with the activities of the enterprise, which is part of the military-industrial complex.
Azerbaijan has made significant progress in the development of its defense industrial complex.
On the same day as part of the steam session of the colleague e.dyrysov. held bilateral meetings with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sierra Leone, samura kamare.
therefore, there were a lot of brands in the "flour" category, as well as in the dairy category, "said R. Tajibaeva.
According to him, in this regard there has been such experience that foreign companies will wear the Kazakh flag.
Therefore, it should be noted that Kazakhstan is a very strong candidate, "he said.
of the total number of jobs created, 2,521 are constantly (including 1267 in the village).
if you pay close attention to the thoughts of the head of state, then you know that this is about the need to expand the representation of the government and parliament. if you 've been following the statements of the president , probably , you have paid attention to the fact that there has been said about the need to expand the powers of the parliament and the government .
we must know the boundaries of freedoms and rights, which sometimes offend religious feelings and harm the foundations of all societies, "said Yuri Novgorod.
The new seven-digit zip code consists of letters and numbers.
The Minister announced the implementation of seven global stages: five in the field of education and two in the field of science.
Thus, the national company will diversify the route of transportation of uranium products.
the amount of their pension will be calculated depending on the length of service and monetary support upon dismissal from service.
Shares of 3.7 legal entities in the amount of 3 million tenge, securities in the amount of 670 tenge, 677.5 forms and securities in the amount of 27 million tenge were legalized.
the acclimatic camp provides 5-time meals, various outdoor games and tours of the native land.
In 2016, it is planned to launch a new 30 MW turbine generator at Aktobe Zheo, which will increase the station's capacity from 88 MW to 118 MW.
the first wind and solar power plants in Kazakhstan were built in the region.
According to the head of the department, the relevant information about the delivery area of ​ ​ this cargo was delivered daily.
Visitors to the fair received information on the measures of state support provided by the employment center of the Governor's Office of the capital.
Within the framework of the meeting, a thorough exchange of views on cooperation in the provision of legal assistance in judicial cases took place.
on the ground floor - a dining room with 120 seats, 2 technological rooms, a medical unit, an office of a psychologist and speech therapist, a sports hall and 3 study rooms.
Kazakh Ambassador to Great Britain Yerzhan Kazykhanov opened the event and familiarized the participants of the briefing with the development of integration processes in the Eurasian space.
improved performance across all industries.
In turn, Chang Zhengming thanked the head of state for many years of support of the company and creating favorable conditions for foreign investors in the country.
It is noted that the representatives of Kazakhstan met with the leadership of the academy and got acquainted with the main areas of education.
all this will contribute to the transformation of new technologies, increase productivity and labor efficiency, reduce production costs, automate production processes, "said the Secretary of State.
the draft law has undergone a world-class analysis by an IAEA of lawyers.
now we are approaching completion of the draft Customs Code of the EAEU.
retail prices for petrol, oil and lubricants are stored at all bus stations in accordance with the established procedure. retail prices for petroleum at all gas stations will be maintained within established limits .
It's nice that you maintain a corporate culture, "he said.
in addition, the purpose of such activities is to develop solutions to ensure that data are reliable, fully operational, light and constantly up-to-date in use.
Kazakhstan is located in the very center of the Eurasian continent and is one of the largest states in the world, while it needs to develop infrastructure. kazakhstan is located in the middle of the vast eurasian continent and is one of the biggest countries of the world .
after major repairs in residential buildings, all windows, doors, floors and engineering units were completely replaced, the facade was repaired.
loan recipients created an additional 2.5 thousand jobs.
for the five months of this year, industrial production increased by 0.5%, "said A. Issekeshev.
Turkmenistan and Ukraine participate as observers in its work.
550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate happens only once .
In addition, delegates talked with journalists from local and republican gardens, talked about the importance of the expedition and answered questions of concern to it.
For two months, more than 30 military personnel of the air defense forces actually repaired aircraft engines, aircraft weapons, avionics and flight support aircraft.
therefore, investors benefit from lowering the tenge rate.
As a result of constitutional reform in 2007, she received constitutional status and received the choice of 9 deputies of the country's parliament. as a result of the constitutional reform of 2007 the assembly received a constitutional status and the right to elect nine members of the parliament of the country .
According to the report for July 1, 2015, according to code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
One of the new channels of communication was the mobile format of receiving services.
creation of a Russian-Armenian center of humanitarian impact, training of personnel of law enforcement, fire fighting, emergency and rescue agencies and special services, use of the training potential of the base training ground "rocky capital" to train rescue units of the member states of the conflict.
The forum will be attended by the presidents of Kazakhstan and Ukraine, representatives of business circles of the two countries, state bodies, national holdings.
competitions are held on the basis of the military institute of the ground forces in Alma-Ata.
Within the framework of the budget code, it is proposed to clarify the competence of public councils in the field of budgetary relations. it was proposed to amend the budget code of the republic : to add a separate article on the powers of community councils in the issues related to the budgetary relations .
Both agreements state that 112.2 million tenge will be allocated to help those in need of social support.
The press conference will be attended by Vice Minister of Health and Social Development Alexei Tsoi, Chairman of the Committee for Control of Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities of Kazakhstan Nazarbek Basen and representative of the world health organization Melita Vuynovich.
The analysis identified opportunities to improve the procurement system. the analysis has revealed ways to improve the procurement system .
These products are widely used in public utilities, industry, agriculture and construction, as well as suitable for the domestic needs of the population, "said S. Vodko.
It should be noted that the forum ended with a ceremony of signing agreements and a number of meetings of representatives of neighboring states of the Caspian region.
In addition, work has been completed on the construction and construction of the Borzhakty-Ersay railway route.
In addition, he focused on the projects "Khorgos - Eastern Gate," implemented as part of the state program "Nұrly zhol," "International airport terminal in the capital, Almaty-Shui, Borzhak-Ersai lines, land port complex and others.
In addition, he noted that rising prices for state energy carriers cannot always be automatically applied to the necks of the population.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to quickly resolve issues related to the health protection of residents of the villages of Kalachi Akmola and birch bark of West Kazakhstan region.
As a state actively involved in world social problems, Kazakhstan cannot stay away from world trends, "Mr. Abdykalikova explained.
Thanks to joint efforts, 1,700 kilometers of the Kazakh-Chinese border have become a field of friendship, cooperation and cooperation.
The head of the region congratulated the athlete on the victory, handed over special letters of thanks and gifts.
The construction of a new kindergarten was started by the kazconstructioncomanygroup contractor in July last year.
Our family institute has trained 1 thousand 742 psychologists, all of them are now working throughout Kazakhstan, "said Edukim.
Out of 1000 visitors to the fair, 968 people received advice on participating in the 2020 Employment Roadmap program, 390 were sent to advise the employer.
Minister for Investment and Development A.Issekeshev noted that within the framework of adapting industrial policy to the new conditions, 14 sectors will be focused on the 4 most promising.
In 2014 - 1, "the department said.
The procedure for preliminary preparation, examination, production of textbooks was considered, "said the deputy chairman of the committee for control in the field of education and science of the Republic of Kazakhstan altair akhmetov.
According to the Department of Statistics of Astana, the total cargo turnover amounted to 4684.5 million tons.
the second direction is preparation for military operations in the mountains.
169 of them are mini-centers.
Recall that the first cosmonaut of independent Kazakhstan went into space on September 2 on the Soyuz Tma-18m spacecraft.
One of the main goals of the project is to preserve the heritage of Russian artists of the 70-80s and to promote creativity in Russia and other states.
The 150th anniversary of the great poet was celebrated in 1995 by the world youth.
It is worth noting that at present this plan is in the government and should be approved in the near future.
his young teacher, chemistry teacher, graduate of Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov.
the authors of the projects "combined vacuum-water thermal system" and "from waste to income" spoke about the significance of their work by the authors of the projects of the khan, Igor Gorborukov and Khalipa Sapiev.
if Ukraine chose European integration, it would not cooperate with Asian countries.
the memorandum was signed by the President of the Kazakhstan Railway Asar Mamin and the Chairman of the Board of the Savings Bank of the Russian Federation by the German Gref.
as part of my last visit to the capital, I noticed the city's intense readiness to hold an exhibition, and it became clear that this event would be a key event of the decade.
In general, the Secretary of State commended the work of the Schoolchildren's Palace, noting the importance of developing additional education in the capital and other regions of the country in order to create equal opportunities for the self-development of children.
assessing the visit of the Kazakh leader to Beijing, the Chinese garden named the Kazakhstani one of the main partners in implementing the concept of the economic belt of the silk road. following the results of the visit of the kazakh leader to beijing , chinese media called kazakhstan as one of its main partners in the implementation of the concept of economic belt of the silk road .
At the next meeting chaired by the Head of State on August 20, 2015, N.Nazarbayev instructed banks, in general the entire financial system, to develop a mechanism for compensation on deposits and foreign exchange rates for deposits up to 1 million tenge. we all know the head of the state nursultan nazarbayev chaired the meeting with the government and instructed the national bank to develop a mechanism to support depositors and compensation terms for deposits less than 1 million tenge .
Since 1996, the department began training students in the specialty "initial military and physical training" with the qualification "first teacher of military and physical training."
The 17th law I sign now.
we, as an airline, are very happy to open a direct relationship with Seoul and Tbilisi. we are very excited to open the direct flights to seoul and tbilisi - two very beautiful cities in terms of culture , heritage , and development .
housing is not only a house with walls and a roof. housing - is more than just walls and a roof .
meeting the guest, I.Adyrbekov noted that the formation of good-neighbourly relations with China is one of the most important priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy.
As part of the state program, they purchased modern technologies in this area from Turkey, Japan and other countries, which will allow us to reach new production capacities, "said B. Halmuratova.
The signing of the memorandum deepens contacts and cooperation between Bulgaria and Kazakhstan in the parliamentary sphere.
This year, more than 300 people from 20 countries demonstrated the culture, history and traditions of nomads in the Kazakh capital.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
in addition, it was decided to conclude an interagency agreement between Kazkosmos and the Canadian space agency.
carried out significant work to modernize the national justice system.
it should be borne in mind that law enforcement practices were the responsibility of those courts, not others. meanwhile , it is the courts are responsible for judicial errors .
This order was sent by K. Massimov to this department under the chairmanship of the Minister of National Economy, Erbolat Dosaev.
Especially growing children should know that we have a deep history.
The work of the informal networking conference discussed the main directions of the development of domestic education and science, its analytical potential and new proposals of the Future program in the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
We can say that our colleagues have done a great job of delivering these goods from Spain, "said K. Spapargaliev.
The company intends to increase production, taking into account Belarusian and Russian countries, which have more consumers than in Kazakhstan.
in particular, he instructed to strengthen the work on cleaning streets and courtyards, to attract additional forces and equipment.
aa. As Tarasenko noted, the head of state has set the task of joining our country among 30 developed countries, now Kazakhstanis should join forces to achieve this goal.
the more service, the more responsibility, and the president does not have free time.	as a president i do not have any free time , like all the other presidents .	0,81
At the moment 137.361 million tenge has been spent.	as of today , 137.361 million tenge ( 46 % ) have already been spent for this purpose .	0,81
they are from different states, in particular, from Spain and Bulgaria, and domestic experts.	multiculturalism policy faced difficulties in europe , and we are to exchange experience .	0,81
the company fully supports the ongoing reforms and development of the country.	the company fully supports the ongoing reforms in the country and spiid .	0,81
at the same time, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan "in 2014 actually financed out of 50 billion tenge allocated for financing idmb-2 projects, as of October 2, 2015 in the amount of 15 billion 325 million tenge or 2 projects (Altel White and Industrial Complex LLP) by 31% of the total allocated funds.
Currently, the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region and the Center of Psychotherapy and Narcology have started implementing this program.
The gold cup of the competition - 2015 was won by Kazakhstan's special purpose units, the silver prize went to fighters from the Land of the Rising Sun.
finished products will be exported to the northern regions of Kazakhstan and Russia.
taking into account the safety of students, they are involved in auxiliary work. taking into account the issue of security , the students will be attracted to part-time job .
in our region, such states are considered, for example, China, Russia, Iran and Azerbaijan.
To do this, it is necessary to strengthen technological discipline, strengthen traffic safety and labor protection requirements, "said A. Mamin.
Today Akmola is the main food supplier for residents of the capital. today akmola region is a main supplier of food for the residents of the capital .
a teaching and methodological base has been prepared.
what is the essence of life?
Kazakhstan has developed a legislative framework in the field of the Islamic financial industry, a number of financial institutions operate in the sector of Islamic banking, insurance and leasing.
it is also an open, public state that has declared the principle of its course from the first days of independence.
more than three hundred parliamentarians, delegates from twenty-eight member states, delegates from partner states, observers discussed topical issues of international security, such as the crisis in the middle east and north Africa, relations with Russia, the refugee situation.
Dossayev noted that it is necessary to reduce pressure due to the transition to the service model of capital expenditures to the state budget.
In addition, industry design bureaus should be transferred to the competitive environment by a government decree, "said the deputy chairman.
Already this year, funds have been allocated, 22 km of heating networks have been repaired in the regional center.	such a support is provided for the first time ,  mayor of the regional center nurlybek nalibayev said .
As we see in a number of countries, without drastic changes, noisy stability itself becomes a ghost.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev often says that the duty and duty of the current generation is a look at the past, a differentiation of history. president nursultan nazarbayev stressed the duty of the younger generation is to know the past and the history .
deputies worked on this document for two years.
The meeting was attended by prominent statesmen and laureates of the Nobel Prize of foreign countries - the former President of Israel, the former President of Poland, the former President of Colombia, the former Prime Minister of Spain H. sapatero, the former Director General of the magate m.halbaradei and others.
As m.mirazhapova noted, every year the number of divorces is growing, there are more people in the homes of disabled people and children, nursing homes, which will not leave indifferent mothers.
knowing such data, he knows what problems are in his village, and makes efforts to solve them.
for example, a mobile application at the end of the month will collect indicators from all meters and warn the owner of the apartment about the need to pay for them.
that is, the agenda of the congress begins with a plenary meeting divided into 4 sectional meetings "Dialogue of leaders of religions and political figures for the sake of peace and development."
Because we must understand the proposals and annexes to the norms of the law, "he said.
the forum will become a platform for discussing topical issues of scientific and educational organizations and production enterprises.
thus, open address data allows the use of the address database to all interested individuals and legal entities, operational services, including postal codes.
all education departments signed agreements with publishers in a timely manner.
The bill was approved in the first reading in 30 regions.
overestimating the role of the constitution is not so easy, it forms the entire system of law. it is difficult to overestimate the role of the constitution , because its ideas cover the entire legal system .
The head of the city also took part in the presentation of the new medical cluster of the akimat on the basis of the MKB "Oncology Center."
the issue of visiting social infrastructure in the city is also being resolved. the city solved the problems of the access to social infrastructure .
Addressing the Kazakh Minister, Vladimir Putin noted that President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev made a great contribution to deepening cooperation in the Eurasian space and made big initiatives.	in cooperation with the sco , kazakhstan gives priority to a coordinated approach to key issues of political , economic , cultural and humanitarian cooperation , security and stability in the region .	0,81
The Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, interested State bodies, local executive bodies and the State Commission have created all the optimal conditions for passing the qualification examination (UNT nb).	state commission for appeals and appeals commission are created in order to ensure compliance with the common requirements and resolve contentious issues in the evaluation of tests , as well as protection of participants of the unt for the duration of the test .	0,81
representatives of religious societies and their leaders, statesmen and public figures, whose respect is important for the participants of the congress, representatives of peoples and religious societies from around the world.
According to the chairman of the meeting, inter-parliamentary relations have intensified.
He also expressed Kazakhstan's interest in further development of mutually beneficial partnership with Romania.
In addition, on September 1, 2 schools will open in the Karakiyan district.
The meeting also discussed the commitments made by Kazakhstan upon accession to the WTO and their implementation into the treaty base of the Eurasian Economic Union.
With regard to savings, much work had been done in that area. over the past three years , " samruk-kazyna " has commissioned 35 projects totaling 6 billion 900 thousand dollars .
for this, you will be supported by the state, "said the deputy akim of the region.
this rule is not monitored under the law on public procurement.
now in the colonies work is underway to create production and attract entrepreneurs to develop the self-employment of convicts.
we plan to make it a world-famous brand, such as the Paris Eiffel Tower or the Sydney Opera House, "said Juan chu.
Following the conference, the official presentation of maps of central Asia of the XVII-XVIII centuries, stored in the Vatican archives, took place. following the conference , the map copies of central asia of xvii and xviii centuries , kept in the vatican archives .
agricultural engineering products in Kazakhstan are aimed at domestic use.
The total cost of the project is 23.5 billion tenge.
the fire department is located in the Blue Ponds microdistrict.
During the meeting a.aidarbayev reported to the Head of State on the socio-economic situation in the region and the implementation of state programs.
in addition, the ship has universal water and magnetic protection systems against weapons of mass destruction, anti-chemical ventilation properties and equipment with a standard ak-306 artillery complex with an automated firing control system, 12.7 mm insulation and traction weapons.
at the same time, permits for dangerous activities in the field of weapons, narcotic drugs, the fire service and other areas - 52, as well as permits regulated under international obligations - 41.
Recall that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is aimed at strengthening mutual trust, friendship, good-neighbourly relations between member states, the development of effective partnership measures in the political, trade, economic, scientific, technical, educational, energy, transport, environmental and other spheres.
the most optimal type of public-private partnership for the penal system of Kazakhstan. for the correctional system , concession ( private public partnership ) is the best .
with the growth of altair akhmetas with akims of vko and heads of departments of economy, finance and education; heads of education departments responsible for the provision of textbooks; Transport service providers contracted; conducts an extended collection with the parent community.	in ust-kamenogorsk a.akhmetov will hold an expanded meeting with the mayors and the heads of departments of economics , finance and education ; heads of education departments responsible for provision of textbooks ; transport providers ; representatives of the parent community .	0,81
According to the results of 6 months of 2015, kurchatov took 4th place in the ratings of the district and the city.	kurchatov was ranked 4th for the first half of the year ( 2014 - 2nd place , 1st quarter 2015 - 6th place ) .	0,81
So, in the future, the issues of training local personnel, organizing additional industries in the region and increasing the number of services of oilfield service companies will be considered.	association 's members are 40 local companies for the supply of goods , works and services .	0,81
Kazakhstan's blue passport has become very gifted in the world.	kazakhstan blue passport has become a very respected in the world .	0,81
the rest of the children came to school themselves.
according to the special charter, the Kazakh cultural center is a contribution to the social and cultural life of Switzerland on the basis of the principle of "discovery with the preservation of traditional worlds."
R. Zhoshybayev, Secretary of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Innovation of Sweden at a meeting with the Oscar Stensetrem noted that the total cost of expo 2017 is $3 million.
during the event in the Samara-Shymkent part of the Western European-Chinese international transport corridor, road workers urge drivers of vehicles to comply with traffic rules, especially the speed limit, since increasing speed along the highway is of particular importance.
the goal of our constitution is to achieve harmony in life while protecting society, individuals and key institutions, "said A. Sarenbaev.
According to Mr. Abdikalikova, in this case, it is important that business communities, educational structures work together and actively participate in improving the social sphere, and citizens receive education and show interest.
in this competitive situation, it is necessary to carefully consider everything. at this point , the media law should be reviewed .
The funds allocated from all sources of financing in the framework of supporting business entities in the period from 2015 to 2017 will amount to 255 billion tenge.
In our conditions, the history of the formation of polytheic Kazakhstan is unique, the expert noted.
today we have a day of knowledge throughout Kazakhstan. today , we celebrate the knowledge day .
in accordance with amendments and additions to the law on subsoil and subsoil use, the conditions for mandatory environmental examination of the agreement at all stages of subsoil use and economic examination during exploration are excluded. in accordance with the amendments to the law on subsoil and subsoil use the requirements for the subsoil use at all stages of a mandatory environmental impact assessment of contracts , as well as conducting of economic examination of contracts for the exploration stage have been excluded .
The President of Ireland also stressed that it is necessary to try to make bilateral relations closer.
the document will take into account all proposals and comments of experts during the event.
on the third floor - an assembly hall with 120 seats, physics, chemistry rooms.
The event will be attended by representatives of international organizations and large companies.
for example, the proportion of prisoners sentenced to imprisonment decreased by 11.5% compared with the first half of last year.
M. Renz stressed the need to realize the potential in the field of the agro-industrial complex and energy, as well as the exchange of experience and students between universities.
The housing issue has been resolved, now you need to work without problems, justify the trust of the people and the president, "said the deputy head of the East Kazakhstan region for public service and anti-corruption zhumagulov, congratulating the recipients of apartments.
Today, this noble holiday contributes to strengthening the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, mutual understanding between various ethnos and faiths.
About ten percent of them are in poorly studied regions of Kazakhstan.
on this holy day, I wish you spiritual harmony, success, good health, well-being.
i.e. at the stages of legalization of goods, services, capillates and labour markets specified in the gross eao agreement.
Kazakhstan stand and specially prepared multimedia slide show aroused interest among political circles of the Netherlands, which allowed them to get as close as possible to the direction of political and economic, social development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Participants discussed in detail the issues of providing scientific, expert support for the formation and strengthening of the implementation of migration and demographic policy of Kazakhstan.
the history of Kazakh oil and modern oil companies, based on photographs and documents that contributed to the development and history of the development of the healthcare, education, culture, art and literature, sports in the Atyrau region, 17 pieces on thematic tablets, ethnographic works of local craftsmen decorated with bone and silver, reeds with a dome (xx g), wooden utensils, dombra with bone plates, patterned in silver (XIX), jewelry, as well as 60 copies of paintings from the funds of the Museum of Applied and Decorative Art.
There are many opportunities and directions for the development of comprehensive cooperation, "the minister said.
the appearance of the building was similar to birches growing in the north of Kazakhstan.
I am sure that such strong specialists will come out of the gifted guys who will sit in this hall tomorrow, "said the head of the region.
thanks to theoretical and practical exercises, fighters as climbers will have the opportunity to improve their skills, master the most difficult mountain areas, conquer new peaks.
representatives of all ethnic groups in different regions of the republic took part in these events.
At the same time, if we consider mechanical engineering, we have enterprises for the assembly of cars, railway locomotives, combines.
Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Privatization and State Property of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ibraimov and Chairman of the Board of Information Training Center Novasyl Ospanov will take part in the press conference.
Kazakhstan supports the key role of the United Nations in this multilateral system.
housing program, modernization of housing and communal services.
international experience shows that without knowledge of English, it is impossible to become one of the fifty competitive countries in the world, "said J. Zhunusova.
Special support will also help the manufacturing sector and their products enter the Kazakh and Shiite markets.
As part of the implementation of the State Program for Forced Industrial and Innovative Development named after L. Humilev - 2 on the basis of a government decision is included in the list of 10 basic universities and an unprecedented place is allocated for the production of building materials, products and structures, training future specialists in the specialties of "space technology and technology," the press service of the university.
Representatives of the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference. Suleiman and B. Tutkishev, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan E. Tarasanko, director of Business World Astana LLP, head of the Ecomed clinic.
this course will not only enable sergeants to strengthen and improve their knowledge and skills, but also to increase their service and rise to high positions.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs is responsible for coordinating the work of the local police service and improving its work, developing the legal framework, "he said.
he gave the Almaty University of Management the training of doctors "against," "against," "management," "marketing" phd and strengthened the status of an educational institution as the best business educational institution not only in Kazakhstan, but also in central Asia.
four times they successfully destroyed the target, three times the Russian sailors destroyed the target, and the Azerbaijani equestrian team did not hit the target.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the ongoing reforms to modernize the Kazakh economy and the role of British capital in this process.
Tokayev spoke about his activities in the "group of copies," which is developing proposals for strengthening European security and improving the activities of the organization.
negotiations between a private company and a foreign company are very difficult, and success can be achieved in conducting negotiations in a wide format. to conduct negotiations between one private company and foreign investors it is rather difficult , and achievement is much smaller success , than at negotiations in wider format .
Another goal is to save water as much as possible and use land resources effectively.
according to him, he is well aware that it is important to communicate with children, take care of them, give them warmth.
by decision of the parties, the association will distribute quotas for the import of flour and wheat for water, resolving a trade dispute between entrepreneurs of two possible countries.
Therefore, the fourth reform of "unity and harmony" is of great importance.
Following today's meeting, an agreement was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and China on providing technical assistance to the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan on a free basis.
Today, personnel training meets international standards.
since landscaping, along with improving the well-being of the city, village, district, has a special impact on improving the environmental situation.
The meeting also discussed the development of youth tourism.
Winners and prize-winners of the competition were awarded with monetary and valuable prizes, diplomas.
in addition to the maximum tariff program, Pavlodarenergo also actively invests its own funds and attracts investments from international financial institutions.
today there are more than 100 entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan and India. today there are more than 100 businessmen from kazakhstan and india - it is said about the huge interest of both sides .
five kindergartens in Kyzylorda region have been selected as test schools for the introduction of new technologies in the educational process.
The event participants hope that following the conference, measures will be taken to study and study, document and archive the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the ictm participating states to a new level, "he said.
And, of course, the presence of scientifically sound, fair wages will increase the attractiveness of state activity on the ground, "he said.
Secretary of State Abdykalikova also met with the Chairman of the State Committee of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Family, Women and Children. Huseynova and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of South Africa.
Kazakhstan supports the need to increase the combat and service readiness of the military contingent of special formations of the collective operational response forces. kazakhstan is for increase of military training of special forces .
Kazakhstan's influence in the ranking is always a powerful macroeconomic policy in Kazakhstan.
During the hardware meeting, the environmental situation of the city was also discussed.
In addition, the opportunities of Kazakhstan's business at the integration stage will be in demand, "M. Pishchbaev said.
A research and advisory center for peasants will be created at entrepreneurship schools, as well as a center for new technologies.
Over the past ten years, the total inflow of direct investment from European countries to Kazakhstan has exceeded $102 billion.
The field of terminology is one of the most important branches of science that serves to improve materials. the terminology is one of the most important branches of science serving to improve the material replenishment .
The press conference will be attended by the general director of the Institute of Family Education of Sofya Evdokimov, the chairman of the Akbota public association, the director of the Vyacheslav secondary school of the Akmola region, Tatyana Nemtsan and the director of the "Institute of Family Education" Kabitovskaya love.
celebrating this holiday, we must not only look into our history, but also understand it and be able to look into the future, "he said. weather.
Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Bozhko, President of the Altynsarin National Academy of Education Zhanball Zhylbayev, representative of the Unicef Children's Fund in Kazakhstan Yuri oksamit, together with the pedagogical staff of the school.
sixth, the introduction of the principle of selling goods, works and services at cost to its participants.
operational teams going to the regions will include oculists, ophthalmologists, therapists, pulmonologists, pediatricians and cardiologists 7
For several years, the dog industry has changed. for several years the role of it has changed dramatically .
Today we are happy to announce the beginning of the competition for the Golden Crowd Award in the field of literature of the Foundation of the First President of Kazakhstan.
this is a great achievement.
After welcoming words, the tape of the new complex was removed, and the audience got acquainted with the internal structure of the complex.
During the meeting, the President of the CCW noted that the company's work is influenced by global economic and geopolitical changes.
As for the rating, Switzerland takes second place for the second year in a row.
of these, 225 military personnel took courses of platoon sergeants, 52 - courses of battalion sergeants, 35 - courses of instructors in combat training, 22 - courses of brigade sergeants, 3 - academic courses.
According to A. Kashechkin, whaleport lovers are not looking for great comfort, they are used to hitchhiking and are not looking for five-star hotels.
in addition, the Secretary of State met with the Deputy Director General of the International Labor Organization Sandra.
the unique works of ancient masters make it possible to fully study the military potential, culture and economy of that period.
children in pump therapy were given the opportunity to study at school, attend kindergartens, sports sections together with their partners, "said Mr. Abduakasova.
at the same time, this map is accessible to consumers, which contributes to improving the quality of services and work of entrepreneurs.
The chairman of the presidium of the republican public association "Council of Generals," Major General Rustem Kaidarov, while maintaining the military ceremony, handed the winning flag to the head of the Almaty regional garrison, Major General Daulet Spanov.
necessary equipment.
8,500 young people are expected to participate in the project, including vulnerable youth groups, as well as about 100 youth organizations.
The Karaganda regional branch Kazavtodor, together with the administrative police department of the Karaganda region and the Kazakhavtodor RGP of the Karaganda region, held an action on road safety along national roads.
All photos and reports related to comments should be monitored and watched at any time, displayed on monitors located in the offices of my and my deputies. we need to bring all the pictures and reports about the elimination of the comments on the monitor installed in my office monitors and alternates , that at any time you can see how this job is gone on .
To date, the project has prepared a group technical passport, as well as received a positive conclusion from the department of tj, audio and ecology.
annual pension levels will be indexed according to the economic opportunities and demographic indicators of the fund.
During the meeting, the main areas of bilateral cooperation were discussed, as well as ways to strengthen the inter-parliamentary constructive dialogue.
this is a statement by the heads of the CIS states in connection with the 70th anniversary of the UN and a statement by the heads of the CIS member states on the fight against international terrorism.
It is worth noting that such operations are carried out free of charge in Kazakhstan.
all workers were provided with winter clothing and shoes.
on the Kazakhstan side, the agreement was signed by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbaev, and on the British side, by British Foreign Minister Philip Hammond.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the fair, trings are held on the topics of "preparing a summary," "how to successfully pass the consultation," in which all citizens who consider it necessary took part.
It is worth noting that today all our scientists and enterprises have the opportunity to use comprehensive measures to support full-fledged innovations. " tashim.
According to the results of operational performance, heads of departments of TD Akmola, Zhambyl, Karaganda, South Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions were heard.
here our main work is aimed at creating favorable conditions for doing business aimed at implementing modern technological solutions, "said L. sadykova.
The Deputy Head of the Lebanese Public Service Agency, Nissrin, noted that many of the first reform points had been identified for the development of the Lebanese public service institution in Lebanon.
During his visit, the head of the region got acquainted with the construction of a new school with 300 seats in the village of Taitobe.
I thank you for organizing a congress of political and religious leaders around the world to deepen mutual understanding and promote cultural cooperation and mutual respect, Mr. President.
According to him, it is planned to hold meetings with famous stylists, image makers working in the fashion industry of Kazakhstan.
Another part of the work program was the circumvention of outlets, excs and exchange points, where the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with prices for food and industrial goods, fuel and lubricants and exchange rates.
In the industrial zone, which occupies 25 hectares, 7 projects are being implemented.
As the head of the region noted, the vast majority of projects (33 out of 40 projects) belong to the manufacturing industries.
open data allows you to develop a garden. open data allow the media to develop .
we are ready to support them even through a state guarantee.
the delegation was headed by Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov.
Kazakhstan became the first post-Soviet state to gain European experience in implementing this system.
ingots and alloys that produced transshipment after processing are sold to large European companies.
the construction of a main water utility was completed, an internal water supply system for these settlements was carried out.
In January-September 2015, the production of crude oil, coal and iron ores decreased compared to the same period in 2014.
the main industries for the consumption of reinforced concrete products are civil and road construction and the market for engineering networks.
Thus, we see the shortcomings in a timely manner and quickly close the gaps, "the akim said.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the visit of N. modi is a historical event for our country and for relations between the two states.
the successful completion of any operation depends on the correctness of the commander's actions, "the Vostok regional command noted.
According to the deputy head of the department of agriculture of the region, Sembay Sagyndykov, last year the results of harvesting were analyzed, the level of need for crushers and grain harvesting devices was identified.
Hungarian entrepreneurs were invited to take an active part in the implementation of priority projects in Kazakhstan in order to attach great importance to bilateral relations, especially in the trade, economic and investment spheres.
Expressing satisfaction with the dynamic development of relations with Afghanistan and the general desire to intensify inter-parliamentary relations, I.Adyrbekov noted that Afghanistan is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan in Asia, the report said.
if our view were true to the creation of the country, we would be horrified.
currently, the army is becoming a real school of patriotism, friendship, and personality formation.
For example, from Pavlodar we supply cement from dzhambul, from a sandy protective area, "said the chairman of the board.
In recent years, we visited places where archaeologists of the country and abroad carried out excavations, and got acquainted with the details.
During the week, 126 teams from 23 countries demonstrated their skill in passing the 65-kilometer march and performing many combat missions.
According to the chairman of the committee, in recent years many contracts have been concluded in this area, and indicators have increased significantly.
also on the basis of a modern cement terminal, it is planned to create an expert center, which will include laboratories for studying the quality of concrete and a facing workshop.
Yu.p. explained that the artificial heart is only an alternative type of heart transplantation, although the donor heart in this area has long been considered the "gold standard."
the customer will publish a report on public procurement from one source on the electronic portal, which will provide justification for the price indicated under the agreement, "said R. Beketayev.
According to the head of the White Development Bank of Kazakhstan, as part of the long-term financing of the manufacturing industry from the funds allocated for the first and second tranches, 71 projects worth 73 billion tenge were approved, financing of 61 projects totaling 55.8 billion tenge was started.
the total prize fund of the competition is 18,600,000 tenge.
to consider your nation higher than another - a great sin.
In order to achieve this objective, we are doing considerable work in this area.
As part of the effective application of this program, entrepreneurs will retain more than 2 thousand jobs and will have the opportunity to create new 685 jobs
The head of state noted that investment disputes are considered by foreign judges, and participants in the center are exempt from corporate and individual taxes for a long period of time.
According to the development fund, the novice Ural entrepreneur Sergan Ashygaliev has long dreamed of opening his own business.
Also, the Vice Minister added that articles 3.4 are supplemented by norms in which there are values ​ ​ of the idea of ​ "eternal country."
but you need to reach 50%.
The changes and additions relate to land and water codes, which provide for improving water quality, strengthening control over the drinking water supply system by improving the protection of water bodies, eliminating the need for water, influencing standards and targets for systemic planning of water resources use, "said the Vice Minister.
The purpose of our meeting today is to get acquainted with promising business projects of Zhambyl region, "said Karlygash Aralbekova, Director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Zhambyl Region.
this is a civic identity if every citizen of our country feels like a patriot and citizen of his country and can be held responsible for the fate of his country and homeland.
in addition, bronze medals were won by the Andrey Flora, Alexander Lizard, Vladimir Pochivalov, Andrey from bench shooting among girls.
To correctly solve this problem, a plan of measures was developed and approved to counter the collection of money in educational organizations, "said Z. Amanzholova.
manufacturing industry produced 41.3 billion tenge in the first half of the year.
According to him, the state of non-working enterprises, institutions, facilities is currently being considered.
Continuing my work in Kazkosmos, I still work a lot for the prosperity of Kazakhstan, "concluded Ayymbetov.
Abdikalikova noted that the head of state "in the implementation of five people's reforms, the intelligentsia plays a large role as a leading force in strengthening national values."
on the territory of the international financial center of the capital there will be an ahco management council, an authorized state body for monitoring and supervision of the activities of the center participants, that is, the national bank department - a committee for regulating the activities of ahco participants, the center administration, and the court.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the solemn meeting was held on the square of the Department of Internal Affairs of Karaganda.
In turn, the Chairman of the People's Republic of China Xi jinping drew attention to the dynamic development of Kazakh-Chinese relations in recent years.
today they are considered States whose population thinks in at least two languages, including Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that the training course was held from 13 to 21 November 2015 on the topic "Development of geoproducts based on remote earth sensing data."
today, the necessary technical materials are imported for this.
we have entered the eao and the world, gained access to new world markets and opened our markets.
At the round table, an exchange of experience took place between the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Russia.
our country has a policy of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
However, despite this, local residents are actively engaged in business.
And today, corporate social responsibility is developing standards for all types of business, such as health care, labor safety, environmental protection.
Accession to the WTO sets concrete, practical goals for the Kazakh society and socio-economic structure, multi-level business, for the management of the management corps, "he said.
the image of the shanyrak on the state emblem is a symbol of one shanyrak and one homeland for all peoples living in our country.
As part of the delegation, a representative of the Unisef Children's Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Yuri oksamit, coordinator for regional programs, Kazhgaliyeva hope, coordinator of unisef in the Kyzylorda region.
introduction of values of "the eternal country" in training programs in education by development of the draft of the patriotic act "Will become the first step in this sphere the m g_l_k ate", development and implementation of the large-scale project of a kh "the big country - big family" will become the second step.
I congratulate you on completing the first year of Nazarbayev University. i am pleased to congratulate you .
The first element to which we must respond is joint efforts at the geopolitical level to protect peace and values ​ ​ through mutual respect, assistance and tolerance, "said M. Rentsi.
During the meeting, K. Zhigalov expressed interest in establishing close relations with the member states of the Caribbean community of Kazakhstan on trade, investment, tourism, energy and culture.
According to the report, a council of young judges has been set up to provide continuing training and professional development to judges.
The project provided for the unification of representatives of a multinational country through meetings and exchanges of views, the development of friendly relations between representatives of religions and faiths of various fields and youth.
The two-story house of culture, which gives a spiritual gift to the rural population, is equipped with a library, a dance hall, an assembly hall with 150 seats, makeup rooms, circles and film installations, musical instruments.
In addition, measures were discussed to suddenly check, improve the organization of training of military personnel in military educational institutions and coordinate the educational and scientific work of the ministries of defense of member states, operational and combat training of formations of command and control bodies and forces and means of the collective security system.
according to him, leaders of traditional and non-traditional religions play a decisive role in such an unstable period.
the enterprise produces 80 tons of products per day, provides the domestic market by 40-50%.
in addition, the EU ambassador noted the field of education between EU and European countries.
in particular, terrorist organizations carried out about 13 thousand attacks and caused the death of more than 30 thousand people, "he said.
The first issue discussed in the Riga administration was the organization of regular flights between the capital and Riga.
During the business trip, a meeting was held with the rector of the Academy of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Russian Federation Oksan Kapinus, heads of research institutes, faculties of law, master's studies, professional retraining and advanced training, and participation in a meeting of the educational council.
today, grain indicators are not bad, but much depends on weather conditions in August.
As part of the program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" a school lyceum with 140 places will be opened.
According to him, the results of the UNT of graduates of Kazakh schools are comparable to the results of graduates of Russian schools.
In general, 112,571 pupils study in Kyzylorda region from 1st to 10th grade, 93% of which this year will be covered by places of summer rest.
among the brook countries, China still held the highest positions (28; 0 ) .
In total, more than 800 companies and organizations take part in the exhibition.
when I received the award above the hands of the President of Kazakhstan, I promised myself all my life for my homeland, for the prosperity of the country.	in those years , when i was like you , i absorbed everything like a sponge , because the young people have always ambitious plans for life , everyone of you wants to achieve great things .	0,82
I think that mediators will work closely with kha-structures.	i think that the mediators will work closely with social structures of the apk .	0,82
We add that today in the capital started the judo world championship.	she became an olympic champion in our country , she became happy in our country .	0,82
Since October 1 of this year, Kazakhstan has been studying for 6 months, abroad - 6 months.
the previously published assessment was announced by chance.
The head of state also noted the content of the agreements signed during the visit and noted that these documents are aimed at further development.
in the first reading, the draft law on the use of atomic energy was submitted for discussion by deputies with accompanying amendments.
Kazakhstan ranks 1st in the world in uranium exports, as well as 2nd in flour exports, 9th in oil exports, 10th in barley.
During the event, representatives of state and entrepreneurial structures discussed the formation of equal competitive conditions for Kazakhstani enterprises in cross-border commodity markets, as well as priority provision to a certain party, suppression of anti-competitive agreements, the information center reported.
According to the Secretary of State, Kazakhstan supports all initiatives aimed at restoring confidence in international relations, strengthening peace and security on the basis of international law.
in addition, in single-industry towns it was instructed to study the placement of auxiliary and serviced industries and orders by city-forming enterprises.
According to him, communicating with people, the new military should have a patriotic feeling and understanding of raising offspring.
everyone intends to pass well, so do not worry, "said B. Saparbayev.
I don't know when we can put that technology into ourselves.
According to him, in recent years the situation in the neighboring countries of Central Asia has become somewhat difficult.
All well-known economists in the world say that next year will not be easy.
One of the significant difficulties was to bring the socialist economy to the market path.
The Council provides for a dialogue platform for developing conceptual proposals to increase the competitiveness of domestic business.
During the conversation, P. Poroshenko noted that according to the agreements reached earlier, Ukraine supported the process of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
in addition, it will require great costs, but investments will pay off in the future, "- added K. Nersherbayev.
It is noted that the Eurasian Economic Commission expects the last note from the Kazakh side.
To date, our company has already leased 8,000 heads of breeding animals born outside our country, "she said.
E. Kanagats noted the importance of this event, since according to its results licenses for the Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro will be issued.
this is 15.7% more than a year earlier, "the report said.
the annual doing business study estimates the comfort of doing business according to ten indicators.
As the expert noted, peace and harmony of the people of Kazakhstan have developed as a result of Kazakhstan's tolerance.
The discussion was attended by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, heads of business structures and public associations of the region.
The press conference will be attended by Vice Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Yesengaz Imangaliyev, Director of the Center for Pedagogical Excellence at Nazarbayev University erlan Kassymbekov and other specialists of the industry.
At the same time, in order to preserve inflationary processes in the planned interval and prevent unreasonable increase in food prices, the memorandum will be implemented between the Mayor's Office of the city and trade organizations.
in the near future we plan to enter the government with a corresponding proposal.
More than a thousand children with disabilities will provide special social services at home, more than 5 thousand disabled people will be in medical and social institutions and day centers.
According to the historian, if we consider the expedition of the "great steppe country" a tourist route and consider it from the hospitable side, then the development of tourism has great prospects.
The work on the translation and duplication of three parts of the epic film into Chinese was carried out by the Central Film Studio of China together with the Kazakhfilm film studio under the guidance of the famous Tsyu Weijun, one of the 5 best sound engineers in China, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
All this action shall be designed and constructed in the form of a single tree pattern with a cellulorde symbol.
The bill provides for the expansion of the powers of public councils. the bill expands the power of public councils considering complaints against the police .
now we spend a lot of time studying and socializing at work, and family life is late.
for our currency there will be an opportunity to diversify foreign exchange reserves, in the future trade ties will strengthen and deepen. our currency will be able to diversify its foreign exchange reserves in the future to deepen and expand our trade .
This year, more than 30 sergeants were trained in advanced training and language training courses abroad.
the investment program should be developed and approved taking into account quality and efficiency, "said the deputy chairman of the committee on the regulation of natural monopolies and the protection of competition of the Ministry of National Economy.
According to the Executive Director, it is necessary to attract more regional akimats to this initiative, which will be the next stage in the development of transparency in Kazakhstan.
According to the CEO, the company is negotiating on the export of products to the CIS and non-CIS countries.
at the same time, pasta production increased by 11.1%.
It should be noted that the X forum of representatives of the creative and scientific intelligentsia of the CIS countries is taking place in the capital.
It was noted that an ad hoc working group should be established in this direction to study the business processes of providing public services and make proposals for their optimization.
It should be noted that Almaty hosted the II republican seminar-meeting of district oncologists and mammologists in Kazakhstan.
The head of state has high hopes for young people.
improving the competitiveness and quality of products through innovation is quite possible, "said N.Nteshev.
Then funds required for its installation are allocated.
It is noted that today the company operates in full.
our center has become a big consulting center.	a very interesting view of mediation ,  - she said .
Foreign Minister Manuel Gonzalez sans, in turn, noted that energy issues should be the most discussed in the world, taking into account their negative impact on climate change.
This was decided on November 22, 2012 at the 152nd General Assembly of the International Exhibition Bureau by secret ballot of 161 member states.
the crews are in full readiness, serviceable, "said Major General Amir Khalikov, deputy commander-in-chief of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the Alabino training ground.
During the meeting, issues of organizing visits of pilgrims of Kazakh citizens to the Saudi Arab Kingdom were discussed.
Negotiations on the organization and holding of the eighth exhibition of "terracotta troops" in the country took place as part of a visit to China by representatives of the main cultural department of Kazakhstan and leading domestic specialists in the field of restoration, storage and archeology at the invitation of the Ministry of Culture of the PRC.
a well-known Iranian diplomat and economist shared his thoughts on the geopolitical situation in the world and the Middle East region.
investors have the possibility of importing foreign labour without any quotas and permits. investors have the opportunity to attract foreign labor without any quotas and permits .
The capital has received the status of holding an international specialized exhibition expo-2017, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
oil prices fell by half, as export customs duties fell by a third.
The job fair was attended by 143 employers from Uralsk, who presented 7,496 vacancies. the job fairs were attended by 143 employers in uralsk , 746 vacant jobs were presented .
Within the framework of cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Eidu Development Center, a comprehensive country project has been launched aimed at developing policies and strategies through concrete recommendations and consistent reforms.
the first part of the film is devoted to the history of close interaction between Kypchak and Armenian cultures, the result of which was the spread of a common language.
As noted, the festival is organized jointly by the regional department for youth policy, the regional branch "Zhas Otan," the center for youth policy.
The constitution led to uniformity of all forms, in general, the socio-economic position, the introduction of the economy, the administrative-command system changed, we occupied a place in the market system.
The purpose of the event was to discuss the advantages of using open data and exchange views with direct participants in the transport and logistics business.
Within the framework of the 4th meeting of the Kazakh-Inter-Parliamentary Commission chaired by the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the Minister of Economy and Trade of Qatar Ahmad and Muhammad al-thani.
their products should be adapted to the domestic market and export, which covers import dependence, "he said.
local executive bodies fulfill the tasks set by the president to solve housing issues of the population. local authorities face the challenge posed by the president of the country to improve the living conditions of the population .
in addition, r. zhoshybayev informed delegates that 49 countries and 11 international organizations officially confirmed their participation in Expo 2017.
According to Akmola Media Center, under the internal policy of Akmola region the system of providing social assistance is active.
uniting the efforts of the Nұr Otan party, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, business, public associations and state bodies to increase the competitiveness of domestic entrepreneurship.
Work continues to attract domestic producers in Almaty region.
creates all favorable conditions for the education of young people in all regions, cities, sports and a worthy title of an honorary citizen of his homeland.
Also during the meeting, the parties discussed the possibility of opening a laboratory for molecular genetic, immune-histochemical studies in order to identify targeted therapy, opening an oncology clinic within the framework of public-private partnership, training Kazakh specialists in md/phd programs and doctoral studies.
pupils of the republican school of young ulan called to repeat the feat of our grandfathers in the Great Patriotic War.
the meeting considered the results of the socio-economic development of the region over 10 months and the tasks set this year.
The main goal of creating the bank is to ensure the guaranteed supply of nuclear fuel between the member countries of the bank.	the signing of the agreement is planned to be in late august , on the eve of the international day against nuclear tests ,  - b.sadykov said .
Within the framework of the visit, the head of state is scheduled to meet with President A. Atambayev, as well as participate in the procedure for terminating customs control in the Kazakh-Kyrgyz section of the state border.
The amount of financing of the program is carried out in accordance with the national and current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In the third article, the goal of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is to ensure inter-ethnic harmony in the formation of the Kazakh identity and competitiveness of the nation in the Republic of Kazakhstan, which is proposed to be supplemented by the norm "National patriotic idea of ​ ​" eternal country, "said M. Azilkhanov.
we will continue to provide assistance for the prosperity of the country's economy, "the head of state said.
motorized rifle, tankers, paratroopers, marines, gunners, grenade launchers, signalmen, engineers, as well as fighters of air defense units will reflect the best qualities that will help contribute to the victory of their platoon, brigade, regional command.
Constitutional Council and judicial and other bodies are subjects of legal protection of the Constitution.
As part of the order of the head of state on the protection of motherhood and childhood from January 1 of this year, parents are criminalized for unreasonable non-fulfillment of responsibility for raising children in cases that entailed the commission of a child's intentional crime or administrative offense, he said.
as a representative of Islam, I want to say that the Islamic world, the religion of good and its main propaganda are a call of humankind for harmony and peace. as a representative of islam , i emphasize that islam - a religion of peace , kindness and creation .
aa. Idrissov thanked the President and Prime Minister for hospitality and noted that Kazakhstan considers the Pacific region as an important area of ​ ​ its policy.
love and desire for the capital are hung throughout the city.
your education does not stop with the first diploma.
to date, the state has assets that are not subject to alienation, these are land, except private property, subsoil, public roads, water management facilities of special strategic importance.
deputy chairman of the national commission, member of the central election commission. Suleiman stressed that "thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, today family traditions between different nationalities and generations in our country contribute to the preservation of high moral values ​ ​ in society, the strengthening of marriage and the family, on which the stability and prosperity of not only the family, but also the whole state depends."
and the effectiveness of the agreement is the opening of a new direction for carriers.
if his work is unsatisfactory, he will not sit in his seat much.
interclub concourse was held in Kazakhstan federation of equestrian patronage and Kazakhstan federation of modern wrestling.
A new sports complex with football, volleyball, basketball, various athletics, a tennis court and a specially designated place for children's recreation is located at the training building.
he needs to be talked to.
It was also noted that from 60 to 100% of 70% of thousands of graduates were employed annually.
the bill will be submitted to the plenary session of the Senate.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for uranium production in Kazakhstan.
thirdly, the internal translation procedure is being improved.
within the framework of this tourist exhibition, the Embassy of Kazakhstan together with the national tourism administration of Vietnam held a round table with the participation of major Vietnamese tour operators and airlines, such as saigontourist, vietravel, focus travel, indochina heritage, vietjetair, etc.
Those who have not passed the probation period should be dismissed with the consent of the agency, "said the chairman of the agency for public service and anti-corruption.
I consider the rank of a soldier of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, wearing a badge worthy, "the marshal said. graduate of the Tyumen Higher Military Engineering Command School named after Proshlyakov, Lieutenant Daler Abdulloyev.
our people have been reunited with Islam since independence.
The documentary was shot by order of the Ministry of Culture and Sports at the Kazakhfilm film studio named after K. Aymanov by order of the Kazakh Research Institute of Culture.
the parties agreed to significantly increase the right to fly between the two countries.
and in the conference rooms, "dialogue" and "constitution" full conditions have been created for lectures, conferences, presentations, exhibitions and working meetings.
we fully meet the requirements of the IOC 2020, "the Mayor of Almaty explained.
The bill provides for the further effective use of water resources, the improvement of the management system of renewable energy sources, waste, the development of sustainable and highly developed agriculture, the reduction of air pollution, the transition to institutional mechanisms aimed at improving the environmental quality of the environment and life, "said T. Akhsambiev.
Director of the "Youth Resource Center" KM Aldabergenov spoke at the rally.
each of the subsoil users should agree with world brands that the first presentations of "know-how" should be made at our exhibition.
By the end of the year, 5 residential buildings, 2 dormitories for young families, and a sports palace will be commissioned.
Now our main goal is to coordinate the efforts of competent and state bodies, in the end, we must get the appropriate results from the common cause, we must see their intolerance of corruption among members of the public, "he said.
the document has no harmful socio-economic and legal consequences.
In our opinion, this indicator was greatly influenced by 5 institutional reforms of the head of state. "
Now the honor of eastern Kazakhstan will be defended by this singer, "said E. Tastambekov.
however, we must not only limit ourselves to this, but also adopt effective approaches using new technologies and international experience.
In general, at the expense of these significant funds, priority financing was carried out in the field of trade, in second place - processing production and in third place - the service sector, "the company said.
33143 applicants took part in the testing conducted on July 18-19, of which 22358 were applicants in Kazakh, 10785 were applicants in Russian.
Following the forum, a number of documents on cooperation with Kazakh and Indian partners will be signed.
The head of state noted that improving the welfare of the country, the prosperity of the region is directly connected with labor.
Also, according to the Minister, in the conditions of integration processes Kazakhstan needs a practical transfer of the international championship.
this will make it possible to be greener and more efficient.
this holiday is of no importance, of universal human importance, since it is an important tool for educating citizens' patriotism, and most importantly, young people. certainly , this holiday - has great national significance because it is a serious aspect and tools of the patriotic education of the citizens , especially the patriotic education of youths .
noted the attractiveness of Kazakhstan for foreign investors.
the company achieved positive results during its activities in the market of Kazakhstan.
winners are awarded with a special diploma and a valuable prize of the Department of Tourism, Physical Culture and Sports of Astana.
they ensure that the gap between the most well-trained child and the lowest child is not large.
however, most respondents stated that they indirectly faced corruption, many of them deleted information from the back and the Internet.
bilateral and multilateral issues were discussed during the negotiations.
According to the president, the constitution is a symbol of citizenship and is a unique gift of independence.
on the territory of the water-green boulevard, leading world artists, designers and architects presented a great world of art.
each district and city polyclinics has family planning offices.
now Captain Musapirov has taken office in the 2nd Kazakh peacekeeping battalion Kazbat.
and this, in turn, fully meets the requirements of industry and business and is the basis for the further development of integration.
In turn, Mr. Zhang Wei voiced his proposals for the development of cooperation between the Almaty region and China.
The event on the basis of the Ulytau cultural and linvist camp was organized by the republican state institution "Public Consent" together with the University of Management of Almaty.
The main idea of ​ ​ the exhibition is to advise where to invest, "said A. Tursynov.
The company has a procurement plan, where some of these products are produced in our Kazakhstan and have high quality, we offer them, "said a.arystanov.
the chairman instructed to analyze the proposals and ideas expressed at the congress by foreign religious and political figures.
National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy.
our team includes 7 well-known military athletes of the Central Military Sports Club of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, we have good resources, organizations such as a specialized house, a union of women entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a women's club of energy engineers have established themselves well.
During the conversation with the labor collective, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the workers on the launch of the new workshop and wished them success in the production of innovative products.
this agreement provides for cooperation between the two countries in the field of engineering science and technology, exchange of experience with specialists and other areas.
The main reason here is the need for ongoing funding, he said. " swans.
for example, in 2013, the British Employment Commission surveyed 100,000 employers about the problems they faced in finding employees.
The forum brought together about 200 delegates from the CIS countries.
if a citizen lives in Russia and moves to Kazakhstan, then the Russian fund transfers insurance pensions to him monthly.
according to him, thanks to the advice of mothers and kha, a large two-story house was built so that the family and children lived in a good place.
At the end of the seminar, the participants thanked each other for fruitful work and wished good luck in further work.
A festive table was presented to all veterans in the cities where we visit the project.
The Committee on Social and Cultural Development and Science will consider draft amendments to protect the rights of persons with disabilities.
This measure will allow domestic tour operators to support work within the state. this measure will help to stimulate domestic tour operators to work precisely in the country , because at the moment there is no balance , and the amount of travelers is many times more than the visitors .
production capacity: asphalt concrete of various grades in one season - 250,000 tons. production capacity is : asphalt of various brands per a season 250,000 tons : coarse , fine and other .
The main topic of the meeting was an international conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, issues of development of cooperation in the pharmaceutical sphere were discussed.
I admire your leadership qualities and consider you to have exceptional abilities. i admire your leadership qualities , you are a man of exceptional abilities .
In this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that one of the main goals of the international exhibition is the opportunity to familiarize with the new energy industry, and noted that this idea should be widely reflected in the pavilion of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the entrepreneur issued a loan at 14% and is now returning the loan by only 4%, the remaining 10% - as part of the Brzk2020 program.
The head of state talked with residents of the capital and guests of the city, and also congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the holiday and wished well-being and well-being.
Currently, ground work is underway on the ice arena for 12 thousand places and the construction of the main columns and the concrete foundation of the gallery, metal structures are being installed.
According to the press service, the EEC approved the composition of the advisory committee on professional activities and social security of workers of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), the execution of pension rights, and the provision of medical care.
As part of the working trip, the Deputy Prime Minister together with the Governor of the region, heads of interested state bodies visited the village of Berezovka, Burlinsky district, where he met with the villagers and answered their questions.
personal qualities of employees are determined by testing, consulting on managerial capabilities, a number of tips and even psychological tests. personal characteristics of employees are determined by testing , interviewing , certain recommendations , and even psychological testing .
Vice Minister congratulated first graders and teachers on the day of education.
special holiday programs and games have been developed for children.
On August 6-7, a mediation meeting will be held, as well as a mediation training seminar.
the main goal is to improve the life of every Kazakhstani and create a modern state for everyone.
today we are one of the most important events in the life of the commonwealth.
It should be noted that the conference is attended by representatives of the presidential administration, ministries and departments, the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and international organizations, as well as scientists and experts.
During this time, the regional legal statistics bodies put 31 people on the legal register, the number of citizens subjected to disciplinary sanctions for corruption actions for the same period last year amounted to 37 people, that is, 16% less.
I often hear good intentions in connection with the dynamic development of economic growth, "he said.
In addition, according to the results of 7 months of the current year, the employment center of the Mayor's Office of Astana employed 3,252 people.
this amount of pension savings is privately held and cannot be inherited by anyone.	payments will be formed by such indicators as life expectancy , the amount of savings and the experience ,  - s.zhakupova said .
As the Commissioner of EXPO-2017 noted, Brazil's participation in the Expo will give impetus to bilateral relations.
the mourning name comes from the ancient name of the headdress - karkara.
this is 6.1% lower than the republican figure, in the country this figure is 100.6%.
Kainar-akb LLP is an enterprise for the production of batteries, all types of batteries, from injection in heads to subsequent grouping.
In the Abay region, on the site of the sherubainura "saryarka" akk "uk" and "kaztransgaz" on behalf of the head of the white state, a project is being implemented to explore methane from the layers of the Karaganda coal basin.
The President also added that Kazakhstan's eurozone partners are also depreciating their currencies against the dollar.
the number of banks participating in the program doubled compared to last year - from 4 to 8.
signing these documents will contribute to the creation of a regulatory framework for comprehensive cooperation in the field of education, "the minister said.
following the meeting a. Daulbaev and Bristow signed a memorandum on mutual benefit between the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Crime Agency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Following the meeting, the Ministry of National Economy, together with the Development Fund, was instructed to continue providing support tools to SMEs with a focus on maximizing the profit from the allocated funds.
However, irresponsible entrepreneurs producing low-quality products are not supported.
international experience shows that agriculture is developing with investment.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as of 07.07.2015 of the year, 136 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 72.3 billion tenge were opened, of which the fee for money legalization was removed from the savings account with payment of 2.8 billion tenge to the budget in the amount of 28.4 billion tenge.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 12.06.2015 opened 126 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 69.7 billion tenges, from them charge for legalization of money is withdrawn from the savings account with payment in the budget of 2.8 billion tenges for 28.1 billion tenges.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 138 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 72.7 billion as of 14.07.2015. Tenge, including withdrawn from savings account with payment of 2.8 billion to the budget Tenge fee for money legalization 28.8 billion Tenge.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 19.06.2015 opened 129 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 69.9 billion tenges, including charge for legalization of money is withdrawn from the savings account with payment in the budget of 2.8 billion tenges for 28.2 billion tenges.
it, in turn, shows high mutual understanding between them.
in Shymkent onions fell by 20% from 100 to 80 tenge/kg under the influence of increased quantity of products and lower price indicators by local producers and wholesalers.
Recall that the National Agency for the Development of Local Economy "Nadloc" proposed to create a working group on advising on the sale of domestic goods in order to increase local content during the construction of Expo-2017 buildings.
Joining tbso will allow the register of navigation of Kazakhstan on the basis of experimental developments regulated by international requirements, to improve its rules, regulatory technical documents and methodological materials used by shipowners of Kazakhstan.
manufacturers of products work according to the requirements specified in national legislation.
general contractor for the construction of the facility - Gakku Stroy LLP.
The ambassador said that in the near future he would give official consent.
I propose to add to it a number of appeals that demonstrate the hope and sorrow of all people in the world.
It is also proposed to maintain subsidies for fertilizers, herbicides, seeds as effective.
the parties noted the high level of political dialogue and fruitful cooperation within the framework of international organizations.
In the course of today's new barriers and global challenges, the invaluable wealth of our people is the most important task of further strengthening our independence and sustainable development of the country.
The press conference will be attended by the head of the National Center for Human Rights Vyacheslav Kaluzhny and the director of the Pravda public fund Olga Ryl.
and in the shopping and logistics center of the LLP "continental logistics," which began the construction of modern warehouses of class "a," at the second stage of the project prescribes the start of the construction of climatic warehouses for the normal storage of vegetables and fruits produced by us.
In general, the project plans to build 8 chicken hides.
It is worth noting that the capital occupies a leading position in the country in the construction and delivery of educational institutions.
the direction was not complex, but required the application of the necessary skills and special attention.
in addition, Karim Massimov took part in a joint meeting of the heads of the CIS delegations with the President of Tajikistan, enamel rachmon.
The implementation of the bill will require in 2018 additional funds from the republican budget in the amount of 11.8 billion tenge.
special methods will be developed for Kazakhstani parents.
According to him, at the final stage, the state body holds a competition and interview on specific activities.
the parties also discussed the integration of minorities and the experience of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the event is to identify debtors, bring to criminal and administrative responsibility persons who refused to pay fines in a timely manner.
this is support for production enterprises, support for warehouses in special economic zones, mechanical engineering, "he said.
During the visit of M. Yesenbayev to Myanmar, the Minister of Energy met with the Zeiyar and the Minister of Hotels and Tourism Htai Aun.
During the meeting, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Astana Eskpo-2017, the Jamanbek diamond called for a dialogue between general contractors and domestic producers, recalling that various conditions for participating in the EXPO-2017 project were proposed.
This was announced by the director of the Semipalatinsk Machine-Building Plant nurlan lobster as part of the working trip of Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov to Semey.
Speaking about Kazakhstan's contribution to international security, diplomats noted the importance of Kazakhstan's inter-ethnic harmony and expressed support for its peace-loving initiatives.
one grant each - Kazakh-British University and Demerel University.
at the end - fire training (ability to work with an ak-74 machine gun, the use of ammunition in various firing conditions, combat capabilities with a minimum of time).
in the future, the elections of akims and their reporting to the population will improve the quality of life of people in remote regions, "he said.
the relationship between youth and religion was very difficult. the issue of the interaction of youth and religion is complicated .
During the event, potential investors were presented with the country's investment opportunities.
As the Chairman of the Majilis noted, today Kazakhstan makes the greatest contribution to the UN international peacekeeping mission.
I ask you to help on this issue, "said M. Turlybekov.
This project is being implemented as part of a program to create a food belt around the capital.
As A. Zhakupov explained, the first heads of large companies will take part in such exhibitions, which, in turn, will significantly facilitate negotiations and achieve general agreement.
Ernat Kasmukhanov and a citizen spoke from Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan at the session of the UN General Assembly said that unity, harmony and interethnic unity are the main necessity. "
secondly, a special tax, currency and visa regime in the center, as well as attracting foreign labor by central authorities and participants, "said the deputy chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
in our opinion, the development of commercial housing is one of the main sources. we believe that one of the sources is development of commercial housing .
During the meeting, the deputy akim of the region noted the importance of strong ties between akimat and unisef in order to ensure the health of lobsters is strong, life is painless, safe, happy.
this military educational institution is one of the leading educational institutions of the republic for the training of specialists for the air defense of Kazakhstan.
Among the foreign financial institutions is the Asian Development Bank: $272 million was raised under a credit line for $500 million, in 2015 it is planned to raise $228 million, as well as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development: contracts for 10 billion tenge were concluded.	the managing director has mentioned the asian development bank , as well as the european bank for reconstruction and development as the international financial institutions .	0,83
now we are paying special attention to corporate and social responsibility, "said Mr. Ambassador.
investments were mainly directed to the development of new fields, the expansion and modernization of existing enterprises.
The inspection team, led by representatives of Italy, included soldiers from Canada, Portugal and France.
On September 26-29, the President of Kazakhstan will visit the United States to attend the 70th anniversary session of the UN General Assembly in New York at the invitation of the Secretary General of the Pan Moon organization.
x.Adels informed about the activities of the international organization headed by him.
the government provides special social benefits for such families, "said the deputy minister.
the capital hopes to intensify inter-parliamentary cooperation between Kazakhstan and Britain.
this is possible after it is resolved and announced in the garden.
During the visit, Vladimir Putin will meet with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, and will also take part in the regular meetings of the Supreme Council of the Eurasian Economic Union and the heads of state of the CIS.
At the same time, their duty on metals was 280-300%.
The head of the region got acquainted with the progress of overhaul of heating networks.
we are pleased to welcome you to expo 2017.	german guest was met by the delegation on the track  yekaterinburg-astana . "
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
True, before that, attention was paid to this area.
in addition, the deadline for delivery of UNT has been changed.
any people will be alive and poisonous if they can maintain and appreciate unity. any nation is alive until it appreciates and preserves unity .
The competition was organized by the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" by order of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that Spain is one of the main political partners of Kazakhstan in Europe.
the plant plans to achieve these indicators in 2016-2017.
Since the beginning of the program in the region it is planned to build 97 houses for 1317 apartments, to date 85 houses have been commissioned.
to once connect your life with the army, this is not only a job, but also a lifestyle and an example of life. for us , the women , decided the life to the army , this is not just a job but a life style .
preventive work was carried out in the village of Myktykol with the replacement of a protective device and wires at the first lifting station.
Governor of Kyzylorda region spoke about the situation in the region.
The main task of the innovation week is to demonstrate the capabilities of Kazakhstan as a new regional innovation hub with the most optimal potential to attract new players of the technological business community from different parts of the world and the country.
In the second half of the day, B. Saparbayev got acquainted with the work of the regional oncological dispensary.
The need for joint actions to counter these threats, including the creation of a single list of terrorist organizations and their sponsors, was noted.
the caravan of friendship and cooperation began from the city of Xian in the Shenxi region of China and a few hundred years later passed along the famous ancient trade route - the great silk road.
among them - a day of gratitude to the Kazakh people, ways of providing social assistance, the implementation of large projects, research on the silk road.
competitions consisted of doubles teams and individual performances.	the competition consisted of team and single .	0,83
bakytzhan sagintayev at the conference took the initiative to create the Central Asian Investment Fund for the implementation of water projects of the republic and the regional water security center.	bakytzhan sagintayev aalso announced an initiative to create a republic of central asian fund for the implementation of water projects and the regional centre for water security .	0,83
Kazakhstan, Turkey, Russia, Germany, Israel, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Serbia and Ukraine offer agricultural machinery and equipment, spare parts, irrigation and fertilizer technologies, greenhouses, seeds and seedlings, fertilizers, plant protection products, technologies and veterinary technologies for animals.	it is attended by over 70 companies from ten countries : kazakhstan , turkey , russia , germany , israel , spain , italy , the netherlands , serbia and the ukraine .	0,83
According to him, Kazakhstan is strengthening the system to improve the quality of goods, including through non-tariff support.	as the expert told , kazakhstan is improving the quality of the goods , for example the state introduces non-tariff measures .	0,83
The State Department of the Republic of Kazakhstan coordinating Kazakhstan's participation in EXPO Zhoshybayev D.Torn and the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia told about international initiatives of Kazakhstan.	at the us state department , responsible for the world expo , r. zhoshybayev told about international initiatives of kazakhstan .	0,83
This year, educational programs will include topics on child safety, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
Head of the Department of Economic Research of the Institute of Eurasian Integration Vladimir Telnov:
This year, 12 out of 16 planned projects were implemented, 370 jobs were created.
its main mission is green development management, international integration, technology exchange facilitation mechanisms and financial support.
According to A. Ayymbetov, the program will be applied in the field of space, ecology, environmental protection, medicine, biotechnology, telecommunications.
their use significantly extends the terms of repair work and reduces the cost of maintaining roads.
the developer privately rented most of the housing - 183.5 thousand square meters.
For 15 years, the President's Foundation has supported talented youth and young talents of Kazakhstan. we are pleased to announce the competition for the prize fund of the first president of kazakhstan - leader of the nation in the field of literature " altyn tobylgy . "
surrender of military standards for physical training.
The volume of Russian investments in the economy of Kazakhstan is also declining. despite the well-known difficulties , the mutual investments continue to grow .
The list of subsidized agricultural products includes import-dependent sugar, milk powder, butter, cheeses.
in such a difficult period, support must be provided to the population. in these difficult circumstances we have moved , we need to support people .
The constitution hall is dedicated to the work of scientists, students, schoolchildren, readers of libraries, books, as well as lovers of the history of the state.
these are oil, chemistry, metallurgy, railway engineering and other industries.
my father devoted his life to school and children. my father devoted his life to the school and students .
Chairman of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan talgat musabayev, chairman of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Meirbek Moldabekov and cosmonaut Ayymbetov will take part in the press conference.
many goods to which we are accustomed and export may not be in demand by the world economy.
Recall that the world special olympics world games are held every four years.
improvement work continues.
in the future, we will organize such events regularly.
many companies are reducing their investment costs.
The European Directorate of Medicines and Health (hereinafter - edqm) is the official intergovernmental body responsible for determining standards for the quality of medicines in Europe.
positive developments over the past three years. over the last three years we have seen a positive trend .
The purpose of the bus lane project is to create comfortable conditions for passengers, draw attention to the movement of public transport.
Participation in UN missions as a military observer requires military personnel to have a high knowledge of English, UN guidance documents, driving skills and special equipment, as well as successful special training in United Nations courses.
In the microdistrict 32 a 2 residential buildings, designed for 5,580 conditional meters 120 apartments, will be commissioned for young families.
we work within the framework of the organization in contact with other domestic structures living in Germany. we are active in the organization of communication with our compatriots who live in germany .
In addition, representatives of the company presented young athletes with a new professional sports uniform and balls.
In her speech, the Queen also highly appreciated the results of the official visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to London, expressing confidence that his results will serve to further strengthen friendly relations between the two countries and the prosperity of the peoples of Kazakhstan and the United Kingdom.
The main issues of the work of the Temirtau metallurgical plant "Arcelor Mittal" were also considered, the need to ensure the stable and effective operation of the enterprise taking into account risks in the global economy was noted.
in addition, a number of industrial enterprises of Yerevan visited the City Hall.
During the ongoing discussion, topical issues of international cooperation in countering crimes related to terrorism and violent extremism, including investigation and trial, as well as international cooperation in this area, were discussed, the report said.
we will continue to prepare legislation on institutional reforms in parliament in the future, "the deputy said.
the parties also expressed their willingness to exchange experiences on the promotion of women's economic activity.
The President of Afghanistan also noted that the Kazakh people under the leadership of the Head of State managed to create a stable and prosperous state.
XXviii World Summer Universiade will be held from June 3 to 14, 2015 in the city of Gwangju (Republic of Korea) in 21 sports.	it is noted that the xxviii summer universiade will be held from 3 to 14 july 2015 in gwangju city ( south korea ) .	0,83
Housing after developers goes directly to the owners of apartments, "said the executive director.
educational programs are also being coordinated with employers, who will enter the educational process on September 1.
seven of the selected companies can now be called champions. there are seven companies that can be called leaders .
compulsory participation in employment measures to obtain benefits from such families.
the foundation of the educational institution was built, they are engaged in the construction of working walls and the construction of foundations of modular boilers.
A bicycle team of 12 people, starting on October 7, 2015, stopped in the cities of Sun, Suwon, Osan, Chonan and through the administrative center of Sejong reached the tejon at the South Korean technology center, after which she returned to Seoul on October 9, 2015, the report said.
During the meeting, a number of peasant farms in the regions showed the head of the region a tendency to use new technologies.
they got the opportunity to train in Germany for a month.
According to the deputy akim of the region, in the first two years of the second five-year plan about 20 projects will be launched, 16 of them launched this year.
training on the initiative of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Green Academy. "
Governor of the region Krymbek Kusherbayev, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Sports and Physical Culture Abil Donbass and President of the National Association of Sports of Kazakhstan took part in the event.
educational facilities are being built in the Kurchatov, Ulan Tauride, Tarbagatai districts.
the partnership program involves hotels, catering facilities and passenger transportation services.
the Chinese delegation arrived in Kazakhstan to jointly implement the agreement on strategic cooperation "horgos" and the Shui international logistics zone in Lianyungang.
As a result, the parties developed common approaches to improve the eeo project.
Stability and harmony in our country allow our state and the leader of the nation to promote global initiatives such as Eurasian integration, "said Z. Baimoldin.
If for the same period last year there were 3 thousand 868 crimes against minors, then this year their number is 2 thousand 61, "said the chairman of the committee.
The main goal of the irreconcilable brotherhood exercise 2015 is to strengthen mutual understanding and cooperation between peacekeeping contingents of member states of the agreement, to increase the practical skill of commanders and headquarters of all levels and the skills of commanders in preparing the management of units (units) of troops in preparing a peacekeeping operation and performing peacekeeping tasks.
we also discussed the participation of Kazakh observer officers on the ships of the Korean army.
The accession of new routes in the capital testifies to the development of civil aviation in the capital and the improvement of air traffic with other countries, "said P. Foster.
mediation is a solution to a dispute through a third-party mediator before the trial, "said the chairman of the specialized interdistrict court for juvenile affairs in Astana at the beginning of the speech.
In total, 203 athletes will perform at the championship, of which 134 are men and 69 are women.
this year, first-class children will be covered by social assistance, "said Galia Zhusupova, head of the youth policy and language development department of the education department.
Kazakhstanis through eggies most often charge fines for violation of traffic rules, state duties, taxes and payments for mobile communications.	most of all kazakhs pay fines for traffic violations , public duties , and taxes .	0,83
Recall that the rise "provides for the provision of conditional financial assistance to able-bodied family members on the basis of a social agreement to activate the family with active participation in employment programs such as the Employment Roadmap 2020."
In my opinion, the potential of the main law of our country has not been exhausted.
The main attention was paid to the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 and the Winter Olympics-2022 in Almaty.
According to the representative of shareholders Rustam Bayaliyev, the construction of the zheo is scheduled for four years.
this will include improving accessibility of transport infrastructure, improving social services, improving the availability of information and housing, and improving legal aid.
among them the enterprises allowing to make new finished goods, for example, land boring complexes, electric locomotives, locomotives cargo and cars, bulldozers and other types of production.
In addition, the program has issues of research, study in this direction, "said A. Kosusbaev.
we need to create a common information space for the Turkic world.
today the company supplies its products to the local market and to the southern regions of Kazakhstan.
Mayor of Almaty Bauyrzhan Baibek, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Germany Hertz Guido, Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan albert rau, Member of Parliament of Germany cat hartmut, Head of Representative Office "konrad-adenauer -stiftung" in Kazakhstan thomas helm took part in the event
Also, Almaty will open an intellectual school of chemical and biological direction, which will work in contact with universities, the school together with scientists and teachers will open the "world of science!" of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Starting next year, we plan to implement the project and amend the current legislation.
At the beginning of the meeting Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted the operational work of all services during yesterday's flood in the western regions of the city.
Competitions were held at weights of 55,56,74,82,90,100 and above 100.
sports, menu development, drawing, needlework aroused interest among children.
the action took place on the Samara-Shymkent part of the Western Europe-Western China international transport corridor, which has the greatest republican significance.
Tokayev noted with enthusiasm that Kazakh and Belarusian parliamentarians implement fruitful actions not only at the bilateral level, but also within the framework of the inter-parliamentary assemblies of the CIS, CIS and other organizations.	k. tokayev noted that the parliamentarians of kazakhstan and belarus fruitfully interact not only at the bilateral level , but also within the framework of the cis interparliamentary assembly , csto and other organizations .	0,83
With regard to the application of the system of factor restrictions to law enforcement and judicial authorities, we have studied the experience of advanced countries and found that the factor-point boundary applies to law enforcement and judicial authorities in developed States.	as for implementation of the scale and distribution to law enforcement and the judiciary , today we have studied the experience of advanced countries and found that in developed countries , factorial and point scale also applies to law enforcement and judicial authorities .	0,83
astana opera, "in which the stars of opera and ballet of the theater, a magnificent choir and a wonderful symphony orchestra will take part.
It should be noted that in accordance with the agenda, anti-corruption measures in the field of land relations were discussed during the development of budget funds allocated for the implementation of the White Stream and Business Roadmap 2020 programs.
In a press conference the people's artist of RK, the rector of the Kazakh national university of arts "azastan azastan Gers і" Ayman Musakhozhayeva, honored professor of the university templ and college of music and the dance "buyer" will take part in Philadelphia and a shmider Eduard.
The main goal of the Kazakhstan pavilion is to show a high degree at EXPO-2015.
The purpose of the event is a creative exchange among young people, the report said.
identification of professional, business and personal qualities, potential capabilities of each officer, his correspondence to the position held, as well as identification of "vulnerable" aspects of the officer corps that require improvement and strengthening.
in addition, Nikita Filippov, Nursultan Mamaev in taekwondo and Dmitry Balandin in swimming 100 meters also won three more gold medals in the country's piggy bank.
the president recently said that the minimum half of our population should be the middle category.
For 2 decades, we have monitored the observance of the constitution, we have gone a long way, and now we have become one of the authoritative countries of the world. all the time we follow the constitution , we have a long way behind .
due to the fact that during the meeting, the Secretary of State in a recent report at the agricultural exhibition spoke about the Kazakh apple. as a symbol of fruitful cooperation between the two countries and the potential for its further development, the presentation of the famous aport apple was held.
According to him, from an early time two fraternal people live in peace and harmony, and this connection strengthens the friendship of peoples.
therefore, the preservation of national mentality, culture and traditions is one of the most important issues.
According to the expert, after the introduction of new systems, many companies move to automate all processes, thereby increasing the capabilities of hackers to violate the system.
The tournament of such a high level in badminton sports was held for the first time not only in Kazakhstan, but also in central Asia.
for state needs, these projects also produce the necessary products.
I wish you great victories in the future, "the akim of the region said.
The first family, the eldest girl is 53 years old, the youngest student, the youngest great-granddaughter is not yet 1 year old.
The agreement clarifies the procedure for the issuance of samples of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors between the competent authorities of the CIS member States.
this month and next we will experiment with the Buudb program in the Kyzylorda, East Mangistau regions.
in the future, the initiative of transparency will include the participation of society in the distribution of social and economic payments to extractive companies, "said A. Solovyova.
Within the framework of the festival, an exhibition of sketchy (sketchy) projects of national clothing was organized during the era of the formation of Kazakh statehood "noble treasury" and a fair of unique goods made from the hands of "parental art - inheritance to the generation."
and the winners of the children's contest "Baldauren - 2015" performed at a festive gala concert.
The number of citizens who passed the documents under the program is 100 people, of which 22 people received confirmation of the bank's solvency.
Effective technical cooperation within the framework of explosive ordnance disposal means a constant exchange of experience and obtaining better experience between the states parties, "said McCullough, political adviser to the Astana office of the programs.
According to him, it is planned to change the structure of the department.
In turn, funds from World Bank loans are provided for the development of a comprehensive paid strategy in Kazakhstan.
harmful waste does not spread in the air, although waste sources have been destroyed there.
the introduction of the power plant will not only provide the enterprise with electricity, but also reduce the cost of producing steel products, contribute to solving the energy shortage in the region, "said CEO Andrei Kuzmin.
Energy of Kazakhstan and Russia is the basis of the economy, on which the entire industry depends, which is strengthened by integration interaction within the union.
Thanks to your efforts, the Republic of Kazakhstan today will diversify civil, interfaith and inter-ethnic harmony.	chairman of the federation council of russia valentina matviyenko expressed confidence that thanks to the leadership and the unique experience of the president , kazakhstan joined the security and stability in society .	0,84
in turn, Kazakhstan assumes such obligations.	in turn , kazakhstan is also to extradite criminals detained in kazakhstan .	0,84
we have such plans, but we believe it is right to invest in government securities, in addition, we support second-tier banks, "he concluded.
As you know, our farmers create associations of agricultural producers of Kazakhstan and Ukraine.
The agency is the coordinator of the action "Made in Kazakhstan - sdelano in Kazakhstan" and is evidence that the exhibition really increases the list of goods producing products for wide consumption.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 04.06.2015 opened 124 savings accounts on legalization of money for total amount of 69.3 billion tenges, including for legalization of money with payment in the budget of 2.8 billion tenges of collecting from the savings account of 28.1 billion tenges.
According to him, in connection with the increase in the birth rate, the construction of new kindergartens is intensifying.
We have now moved to the institutional level of relations.	there will be two-day training  political communication . "
The Constitution ensured Kazakhstanis equality, independent of the nation and religion, "he said.
During the official meetings, issues of cooperation between the two countries were discussed, as well as the development of cooperation at a mutually beneficial regional level under the leadership of these states, the cities of Santiago de Queretaro and São Paulo.
According to the Governor of the region Archimedes Mukhambetov, the repair of republican roads is very important for the region.
10.09.2015. 258 projects worth 45.2 billion were financed. Tenge.
There are no negative conditions in the implementation of immunization measures.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
By order of the head of state, the peaceful Bakirovich atamkulov was relieved of his post as executive secretary of the Ministry for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job.
in turn, Sashakov. awarded an honorary diploma of the Kypchak Union.
all these facilities are designed to improve life, improve the well-being of the population.
According to experts, Kazakhstan's experience of ensuring interethnic and interfaith peace in conditions of accelerated modernization of the country is very important for the international community.
the current legislation is formed on the basis of the constitution, in connection with which it was necessary to form a special base. it was necessary to create a database , because the current legislation is based on the constitution of 1993 .
The partnership between the Coalition and Kazallansa is the development of a joint road map for the transition to a green economy on the concept and transition to a green bridge partnership programme.
the parties exchanged views on compliance with the regulations for the protection of historical monuments in construction near the Azazet Sultan Museum-Reserve.
the results are very good.
at this time, citizens can see the draft textbook, which has not yet been issued, is not registered by the ministry.
Senate central boiler house in the Sarkansky district school named after Ostrovsky got acquainted with the work of the gymnasium and the peasant farm "Kamenev."
The acceleration of the business registration procedure in Kazakhstan was made possible thanks to the process of automation and optimization of public services.
The head of state stressed the importance of raising the status of a teacher and linking wage growth with his qualification level.
According to him, the NZM program differs from secondary schools in high pressure, where there is high demand.
As part of the implementation of the State Program for Forced Industrial and Innovative Development named after L. Humilev - 2 is included in the list of 10 basic universities on the basis of government decision and participates in the training of future specialists in the specialties "production of building materials, products and structures," "space technology and technologies."
Kazakhstan is already implementing reforms in the field of public services.
we created an import shift, and the export focus began to work.
since then, he worked for more than half a century at the Dossormunaimash oil enterprise.
In particular, the meeting approved the draft memorandum of understanding between the Organization for Cooperation between Railways and the EEC.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO is very beneficial for the population. accession to the wto is certainly beneficial to the nation .
the parties discussed the state and mutual effectiveness of cooperation in the framework of the overthrow.
The national company is working to improve the tourist tigers of the capital and compile a list of the best destinations for tourists with the mark "recommendedbyexpo" (hyperlink to the news).
54 billion investments were attracted to the economy of the region for 6 months of this year, fixed capital increased by 52.7%.
We will graduate from Russian educational institutions and in a year or six months we will work at this station, "said a member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan mukhtar altynbayev.
Also, people can connect interactive cards to their mobile devices, and information comes to them, "he continued.
Professor of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan Zinaida Fedotova:
According to D. Aseyinov, Turksa, together with the Turkish Council, the Turkish Academy, the Foundation for Turkish Culture and Art, together with such international organizations as junexo, isesco.
As the President noted, the current youth generation lives in a favorable period, they choose free professions and develop together with the state.
As a result of the stubborn competition, the first place in volleyball among women was won by the team of the military unit 55765, the second place was taken by the military unit 14776, the third place went to the fighters of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
it is necessary to reduce costs, "said the head of the region.
the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, Vice-Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan made a report to the members of the commission. and Vice Minister of Energy m.myrgaliev.
The school television studio is designed to increase the creative and scientific abilities of students.
the total investment volume will be about 2.7 billion tenge.
As a result of direct assistance to the leaders of the two countries, who paid considerable attention to strengthening bilateral relations in the humanitarian sphere, in recent years the exchange of cultural and scientific experience between Kazakhstan and Turkey has been intensified, exhibitions and tours, international conferences representing culture, music and the philosophical and literary heritage of the Kazakh and Turkish peoples are organized, "said Mayor Ceyhan.
The Kazakh side expressed hope that a representative of micronesia will take part in the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition.
According to him, according to the analysis of the state of agriculture, the republic is fully equipped with the equipment necessary for agricultural work.
It is noted that such events will teach the younger generation to respect the history and exploits of their ancestors.
provide domestic goods not only the construction industry, but also the entire service sector - up to spoons, forks, towels, furniture.
As A. Gibner noted, all the events held within the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate determine the historical significance of the country, this is the foundation on which the state is located.
The experience of interethnic harmony in Kazakhstan was interested in multinational Afghanistan.
Dear participants of the forum, I congratulate you on the beginning of the x forum of representatives of the creative and scientific intelligentsia of the CIS member states. dear forum 's participants , i congratulate you on the opening of the tenth forum of creative and scientific intelligentsia of the cis member states .
According to him, in four past forums, authoritative scientists have shown that religious scholars, experts, ideologists in the field of religious problems have become an effective and open platform for representatives of state authorities.
It is noted that these are models of breathing apparatus, which are currently equipped in special units of NTO countries (including kum, Norway, Italy).
museums of the two countries should serve for the people.
During the conversation, the parties also discussed the prospects for cooperation in the field of alternative energy, the production of rare and rare metals.
Since the brix countries are located around the world, it is important for us to establish ties, maintain and support them, "said A. Musinov.
As the editors noted, the report assessed the situation of human rights protection in Kazakhstan, specific issues were raised.
an analysis of the results of the evaluation of the efficiency of using budget funds will be carried out, as well as the participants of the seminar will familiarize themselves with modern budgeting technologies and new ways of generating the cost of budget services.
we go along the tourist route of the expedition "Country of the Great Steppes," to important places in the history of the country, "said Mr. Kanan.
today we celebrate professional holidays of citizens who associate their lives with the noblest profession in the world - medical activity. today we honor those who have thrown in their lot with the most humane profession on earth - the medical profession .
During the visit guests visited agricultural enterprises of the region and took part in business meetings of East Kazakhstan region.
Kabibulla Jakupov thanked the ambassador for his contribution to the development of Kazakh-Hungarian relations, noting that over the years, cooperation between the two countries has reached a strategic partnership.
this work is stored in the foundation of the Union of Artists in Alma-Ata.
since animals in such a large number are not stored in houses.
The mill installed equipment of the Finnish company "elematic," recognized as the leader in the integrated implementation of assembly reinforced concrete technologies around the world.
this is due to the mining and metallurgical industry and electricity.
Every year, the arsenal of attractions is updated with modern technology.
with your election, the establishment of the Government of National Unity has been completed.
As follows from the message, within the framework of the plant "water quality" it is planned to launch such industries as the production of reinforced concrete products, separation into pipes, monolithic wells, technological concrete.
The forum is attended by representatives of state bodies, religious scholars, theologians, teachers of the optional course "fundamentals of religious studies" in general education institutions, students and undergraduates of the specialty "religious studies," representatives of religious associations, public organizations and gardens.
Also, parliamentarians exchanged experience in legislative activities.
- "mother lullaby with one hand, shaking the world with one hand."
The heads of government noted the dynamic nature of the development of bilateral relations and agreed to further deepen the business partnership between Kazakhstan and Pakistan.
According to the agency, the Mir organization began to involve young people in the industrialization project.
The historical ethnic node of Kazakhstan is the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, "said A. Bashmakov.
Another object was the central stadium, designed for 72 spectators.
this is a historical event, because 100 Poles were sent to Kazakhstan at one time.
last year, these enterprises produced 3 thousand 600 tons of products.
the seminar was attended by museum leaders, lecture students, teachers, employees of the treasury.
to do this, we are implementing 8 joint projects with eu.
However, despite this, there are countries that provide growth for themselves, "said A.Firsov.
athletes compete among themselves in three categories - shooting, gymnastics and skiing.
All cultural organizations and women's councils open to them work to develop and preserve family values.
as well as requirements aimed at ensuring legislation, tariff policy, attracting new technologies to the water sphere.
Trilingual education is scheduled for 2016.
we need people who work abroad, speak English, are ready to work openly and effectively. we need people who speak english , who have been working abroad and have a desire to work transparently and effectively .
In 2015, it is planned to build 3 facilities, create more than 370 permanent jobs.
The participants of the national team of Kazakhstan showed endurance and endurance in the conditions of fierce competition with rivals from other countries who have experience in the competition, the report said.
In addition, under this program, the elevator farm is being restored in sepnogorsk.
the second is all artificial earth satellites.
in general, a baiterek is an ancient tree possessing a mascot.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is a great holiday for all Kazakhstanis. celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is a great feast for the kazakhstanis .
snow is one of the brightest female images in world literature.
state bodies should quickly respond to criticism and take the necessary measures to prevent corruption, "the akim said.
The parade is also attended by leaders of more than 23 countries and governments, heads of international organizations.
Over the past 5 years, the modernization of state statistics has been carried out in 3 areas: the introduction of modern information technologies, the improvement of statistical methodology and the optimization of the form of reporting, "said Alikhan Smailov, chairman of the committee on economic statistics.
First of all, I am grateful for the invitation to your country as part of the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. first of all , i would like to sincerely thank you for the invitation to visit your beautiful country during the historical events of celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
- any metropolis holds major international competitions.
if old lighting devices fail within 2-3 months, the advantage of new power supplies is that they do not require several years of replacement.
as part of their implementation, communal infrastructure, the social sphere of cities with growth and families will be improved.
So, on behalf of the Supreme Commander from October 2014 to July 2015, about 70 sudden inspections of all types of troops and regional commands were carried out.
jewelry of headgear with suspended gold brackets, beads, brick urns, etc. were found on the fences.
the third is interreligious conflicts taking place throughout the world today.
these costs will be reimbursed from the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On this basis, we ensured the unity and friendship of the people.
Recall that from January to June, the battalion (division) checked for compliance with the positions of officers serving in military service as commanders of units and their deputies.
religion calls for peace, harmony.
systems of internal and external terminals, logistics centers are being created, "said the head of the national company.
tariffs for postal and courier services to legal entities increased by 0.2%, and tariffs for communication services and cargo transportation by all modes of transport remained unchanged.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan is an unprecedented experience that deserves to be studied by other states, including the Kyrgyz side. the work of the assembly of people of kazakhstan is a unique experience , and the experience is worth studying by other states , including kyrgyzstan .
There is hope that our athletes will take the first places in athletics, swimming, taekwondo, shooting and bench shooting.
such competitions are important for the formation of a healthy lifestyle.
About 700 athletes from 60 countries took part in the championship.
As the expert noted, their technical close areas are incorrectly used in the civil service.
That is, 993 contracts were concluded for industrial training, 15,600 graduates receive experience at 1077 enterprises.
the astronaut told the guys about his dream and path to it and answered their questions, leaving none.
Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin got acquainted with the construction of this enterprise.
According to the report, this year funds are allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan for preferential lending to projects of small businesses and large manufacturing enterprises.
During the visit, a meeting with the President of Tajikistan was scheduled for enamel rahmon and the signing of a number of bilateral documents, as well as participation in the session of the Collective Security Council.
During the training, the basic principles of providing runways, steering track and aprons, aircraft parking, airfield markings, signs and markers, lighting and alarm, requirements and proposals were studied.
We all wish to congratulate you on the coming Capital Day. we would like to congratulate all on the upcoming day of the capital .
At the same time, the Speaker of the Majilis noted that one of the priority areas of the policy of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev is the issue of interethnic harmony.
different countries are looking for new ways to adapt to real life.
the head of the expedition nurbek Shayakhmetov told the villagers that the main goal of the expedition is to "strengthen the civic identity of the people of Kazakhstan, preserve the unity of nations and educate Kazakhstani patriotism on the basis of deeper knowledge and propaganda of historical and cultural values ​ ​ and spiritual and moral heritage."
The head of the region Danial Akhmetov instructed the competent authorities to immediately prepare all documents and find an investor for the accelerated implementation of this project.
29,335 residential facilities worth 237.1 billion tenge, 15,311 non-residential facilities worth 95.0 billion tenge were received, of which 3,897 commercial facilities worth 66.3 billion tenge, 14 interests of legal entities worth 0.7 billion tenge, securities worth 3.2 billion tenge.
According to the national company, the contract provides for temporary storage of goods and transit transportation through the territory of China to the western ports of the country and Canada.
in this center everything is conducted in English.
taking a military oath is an important moment in the life of every goat.
coming out of these productions, we go to other operations.
The list of unistream products today is much wider than only money transfers, so in the future we plan to realize our other services through the white line of "kazpost," "said Kirill palchun, chairman of the board of Unistream JSC.
and for consumers - the choice of a wide range of goods and services.
According to experts and investors, Kazakhstan has created the best conditions for investment.
As the head of government noted, every state, every government dreams of having a silicon valley in its state.
The concept of cultural policy also implies the modernization of management activities in the cultural sphere. the new cultural policy also includes the modernization of management , the revitalization of industry development as a sector of the economy .
As we plan, all legal disputes involving foreign investors will be considered by a specialized composition in the court of the capital. we expect that all litigations involving foreign investors will be considered by a specialized staff in the court of astana .
these are new ideas, high technologies, the main thing is the quality of products and services.
We expect that the creation of a capital market will help attract additional foreign investment and the growth of the national economy, and this will be an alternative to the banking system, "he said.
Noting the growing role of Kazakhstan in peacekeeping policy and the world arena, the head of the Maltese order proposed creating a joint charity project in Afghanistan for war victims and needy people.
The event was attended by member countries, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, academic institutions, youth organizations and the garden.
According to preliminary data, while maintaining the energy intensity of the gross domestic product for 2008 in 2013, 85.6 million tons would be consumed instead of 69.7 million tons.
to create the necessary conditions for this development, such a business incubator has been launched, "said Aizhan Sadykova, head of the department for the coordination of employment and social programs of the East Kazakhstan region.
Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. the delegation headed by Seydakhmetov was the rector of the Civil Aviation Academy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and representatives of Air Astana Airlines and Kazaeronavigation RGP.
Akim also stressed the issue of attracting young people as volunteers to the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
We want to cancel some procedures that require unconditional responsibility, but require costs. of course , you will be responsible , but we want to take unnecessary procedures , unnecessary costs off .
It is noted that kindergarten No. 10 "Akbota" is designed for 280 places.
The project provides for the construction of a plant that allows the production and processing of up to 3,000,000 tons of briquetted coal per year.
the rural population is very hospitable, meets us well.	for this purpose it is necessary to enhance the archeology ,  vidadi salakhov added .
for example, the export ability of meat products of Kazakhstan at the price of eidu is a priority in a different resource and geographical location.
According to the deputy head of the office of the regional court B. Zholdaspayev, today, on the initiative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a project "Familiarization with judicial documents" is being implemented, within the framework of which information stamps for protocols on administrative offenses are provided.
Nurlan Ormanbetov noted that during the talks, cooperating with Belarusian colleagues, "we strengthen confidence and mutual understanding" to achieve a certain self-sufficiency in the defense industry.
Mr. President, thank you very much for your congratulations. i express my respect to president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , who run the country over the years of independence and led it to the remarkable development and strong economic ties .
all dairy equipment is planned to be obtained through the kazagromarketing protein.
at the third stage, participants demonstrate the operability of working with the ak-74 assault rifle (using time and high combat capabilities under various conditions and firing with ease of ammunition).
the second role is to leave digital value.
According to him, the number of employees in the field of small and medium-sized businesses increased by 8.8%, to 95.6 thousand people.
the system of regulation of prices for oil products should not allow the enrichment of others at the expense of one object, "he continued.
According to him, the reform of the formation of a professional state apparatus creates conditions for the effective and productive work of service workers.
Thus, we, taking advantage of our experience in conducting expos, offer to help you and share our knowledge, "said the ambassador.
here again the concern and support of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev is felt.
The Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is one of the most important institutions forming dialogue between these religions and civilizations in the face of increasing challenges and threats at the global level. against the background of worsening and globalization of contemporary challenges and threats the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions has become one of the most important international institutions for the promotion of global dialogue between religions and civilizations .
The conference was planned to be held in mid-2016 as part of a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
rescue aircraft carried out 400 sorties, transported 2,165 patients, conducted 39 consultations, conducted 8 operational operations.
the decrease in the volume of production in mechanical engineering occurred mainly due to a decrease in the output of other vehicles (57.2%).
our people are closely connected through the stages of history, the implementation of joint work and projects.
he has developed more than 300 projects in the field of forestry and chemical industry, new technologies.
It is planned that on December 15, 2015 Kazakhstan will be officially declared a member of the council at the conference of trade ministers of the CIS countries, "said Minister for Economic Integration Zhanar Aitzhanova.
n. As the country added, water management plays a key role in the integrated conduct of safety through cooperation with ecu.
there is little time left before the heating season. every day 15-20 houses should receive passports .
To date, 1411 tons have fulfilled their obligations for grain supplies in the amount of 13.4 billion tenge.
these are good specialists, they need to be trained in the implementation of the goals set by enterprises, "said the rector.
in this regard, the gross revenue of agricultural products compared to last year has 4-5%.
Participants of the meeting discussed the conceptual proposals of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the participants again discussed the conceptual proposals of the republic of kazakhstan .
He is 12 years old, "the Governor's Office of Almaty region reported.
aa. Idriss et al. Kerry highly appreciated the activities of the strategic partnership commission, which has become an important and successful mechanism for strengthening bilateral relations in priority areas.
any Kazakhstani company can participate in foreign exhibitions, through our support reimburses all expenses for participation of the company.	service support includes marketing services , such as  search for potential customers . "
In his speech, the head of state noted that he was approached by the heads of individual companies with proposals to engage in beef production on the basis of high international standards.
The head of state noted that during the first round of negotiations in Kazakhstan on the Iranian nuclear program, the Kazakh side repeatedly spoke about the possibility of obtaining nuclear fuel from the reserves of such a bank.
The main theme of the forum will be the work of political and religious leaders on the basis of peace and harmony.
We work closely in this direction with the Governor's Office of Almaty region. we work with akimat of almaty region , create favorable living conditions for our employees and workers of public facilities .
this is the strengthening of maslikhats, the strengthening of associations.
this is very important, in this way we introduce world experience, "he said.
the height of the pyramid is 62 m, the total area is 25.5 thousand square meters. meters.
M. Pshembayev also noted that as of January 1, 2015, more than 4,000 enterprises are operating in mechanical engineering.
The head of state proposed to modernize the prison infrastructure within the framework of public-private partnership 100 steps from the National Plan. one of the steps proposed by the head of state is the modernization of prison infrastructure within the development of public-private partnership .
As you know, now the prices of energy and metals are falling, and therefore changes are taking place. as you know , in general , there is a fall in prices for energy , metals , and therefore there is a replacement .
they were collected from all over Kazakhstan, some were purchased and others were donated.
Chinese carriers are interested in creating a transport and logistics terminal in the chorgos-east gate zone.
According to the director of the institute, this year, according to the Self-Knowledge program developed in 2014, educational and methodological complexes were issued: textbooks, educational and methodological manuals, notebooks for grades 4-11 in Russian and Kazakh.
we ensured the equality of all participants.
this will provide an incentive for the development of the economies of the countries of the union.
For 70 years, the couple worked to eliminate and end tensions in the world.
In addition, he proposes to remove a number of barriers to the conclusion of investment agreements.
firstly, the development of the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The best beauty of Kazakhstan choose Kazakhstan sms-voting.
the results of research in space will make it possible to assess the resistance of the body to extreme conditions and develop proposals for improving the level of cosmonaut training, "said the astronaut.
dialogue of culture is an environment aimed at cooperation, rapprochement and joint solution of problems in an effective way.
the law is aimed at reducing administrative barriers to the activities of natural monopolies, in addition, the document strengthens control over investment programs and other obligations of natural monopolies, increases tariff transparency, many issues are caused by the development of competition. the law is aimed at reducing of the administrative barriers in the activities of natural monopolies , the control over the execution of investment programs and other obligations of natural monopolies is strengthened , the transparency of tariff is increased , much has been done to the competitive activity .
The opening of this center is very important, "he said.
In his report, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Spain noted the high level of trade and economic relations between the two countries.
students meet the day of education at the new school.
every ten days, we not only review the reporting information materials sent by local authorities, but also review the information of the departments of control in the field of education and science in each area, "said the press service.
According to him, the plans include the implementation of 27 investment projects worth $7 billion, which will be implemented on borrowed funds of the enterprises themselves as part of the development plan of the mining and metallurgical complex for 2014-2018
The First Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs reported on the ongoing work to attract international participants.
this is the modernization of the public administration system from the official model of the public service, training of personnel.
According to the press service of the commission, the board members approved the draft decision of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council.
The Western Europe-Western China highway, as well as the country's main railway line, runs through the territory of the Kyzylorda region.
The Development Institute has attracted 3.7 billion investments in the manufacturing industry, and next year plans to increase this figure.
At the meeting, the participants discussed issues of reducing corruption risks, threats of corruption in the public service.
the concept requires innovative technologies for managing personnel processes, a new scientific approach to it.
In the second quarter, Capital Solar LLP developed 6,786 panels with a total capacity of 1.844 MW of energy.
Parliament of Kazakhstan will have to work quickly and efficiently, "he added.
your leadership has played a key role in this important initiative.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister instructed the Governor's Office of the region together with interested state bodies to consider the possibility of opening a "whitewash sea port" in the country for the production of products for oil and gas production companies.
the main goal is to increase the efficiency of agriculture and its export with the manufacturing sector. the main goal is to make agriculture highly efficient and bring it to export to the processing sector .
two Uzbek citizens who were in the country without permission were identified during operational and rehabilitation measures. A citizen is brought to administrative responsibility.
Completion of construction of 3 facilities is planned to be completed by the end of this year.
we announced the introduction of a pay model for civil servants, higher salaries for administrative public servants, higher benefits and scholarships.
we cannot eliminate corruption until the population stops offering money to officials.
many enterprises in this industry have an impact on solving social problems.
this approach will solve the problem of lack of financing for agricultural producers, start-ups and experienced rural entrepreneurs.
Secondly, a memorandum with Euro-Asia Agro-holding LLP was signed to carry out processing of 7000 tons of lamb to the region by the akimat of the region.
the center employs about 50 companies in the world engaged in scientific and technical research, the creation and introduction of innovative technologies in various sectors of the economy.
despite this, a steady increase in foreign investment has been achieved.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues of socio-economic development of the region was considered.
apple plantations were removed from Poland, planting is underway.
During the visit, it is planned to discuss the placement and saturation of the French Republic pavilion.
stability and sustainability cannot live without economic progress.
The head of the city congratulated the athletes on the victory and handed over a financial prize.
production of oxidized ore at the aktogai deposit in eastern Kazakhstan continues.
aa. According to Dosayev, in March-April of this year, the first coordination of 133 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 2,437 thousand square meters among waiting lists began.
the conference is devoted to issues of constitutional law.
According to preliminary data, for 8 months of this year the produced oil amounted to 53.4 million tenge, which is 99.4% compared to 99.6% in 2014. according to preliminary data , oil production amounted to 53.4 million tons , or 99.4 % of the planned figure and 99.6 % more than in 2014 .
to date, the method directly affects the formation of order and tasks in the creation of international business.
The film tells about the life of such characters as a climber who conquered the mountains of Kazakhstan, an opera singer performing in the capital's new opera house, a businessman from the capital, a professor at Nazarbayev University, an archaeologist and designer.
To date, the data.egov.kz portal has more than 300 data sets on educational, medical institutions, cultural, safety, transport sector data, as well as on crime by city, statistics of traffic accidents and statistical indicators, etc.
in the future, I was a plasma and imun plasma donor and still so, "said A. Skakovsky.
The construction and repair of Kazakhs in the region are under the control of the akimat.
T. As Kostina noted, the collection consists of 7 parts, the first of which is dedicated to the 20 year of assembly.
in general, the participants of the EEC meeting in Moscow reached a mutually beneficial decision on topical issues of the development of Eurasian economic integration.
According to B. Kaipova, today many countries are interested in mastering the experience of kha, which are interested in the main achievements of the assembly and the experience of the Kazakh interethnic dialogue.
constitution - law - the basic law of the state, a group of laws or laws with high legal force in relation to all other laws in the country.
in addition, Kazakhstan has a very high potential for uranium mining.
the work of the Institute for Human Development has been carried out in several areas, one of the areas of which is the scientific and methodological support of pilot educational organizations. institute of harmonious development of a man works in several directions , one of them is a scientific and methodological support of activities of pilot educational institutions .
all colleges began teaching children according to the new educational standard, according to the second stage of the state program iid, which was implemented since 2011, a total of 12 billion tenge was spent on a combination of theory and practice, "E. Imangaliev said at the beginning of the speech.
he got acquainted with the work of Armenians within the eurozone and the problematic problems that arose during the trade relations of Armenian enterprises with the member countries of the organization.
at the same time, associations such as eao, shu and brix play an increasingly important role.
In general, in Kazakhstan over the past five years, the number of active small enterprises has increased by 12.2%.
Mayor of the city of Ceyhan highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of culture and art, noted the special experience of our country in creating a multinational and multi-religious society.
we are already planning to build a reinforced concrete house, "he said.
opening the meeting, ad.daulbayev informed the ambassador about the main directions of the prosecutor's office, as well as about the creation of a law enforcement academy under the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to E. Imangaliyev, the program of development of basic universities and colleges will adhere to three key aspects.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that domestic agriculture will become the driving force of the country's economic growth.
production began with the assembly of three models of tractors - "Belarus 80.1," "Belarus 82.1" and "Belarus 1221.1."
Afghan parliamentarians noted that Kazakhstan plays an active role in effective regional cooperation with such prestigious platforms as the Anshk, Shu, Istanbul process, regional economic cooperation in Central Asia, regional environmental central forums in Central Asia and other programs.
the company set itself specific goals, developed its own policies in regions and industries.
in accordance with the agreement, bilateral transit and transport to third countries is carried out on a permissive basis.
adding gas to houses, giving heat and joy to residents, kaztransgaz "once again proved that it is a white folk company.
our parents have always been kind, "added the eldest daughter of the sculptor family.
He also noted that more children should be included in this type of equestrian sport.
investment leads to advanced international technologies and best practices. "
the company's staff takes an active part in all reforms of the country. the company will actively participate in all the reforms .
During the event, attention was paid to the amendments to the constitution of Kazakhstan.
moreover, the ratio of debt and equity of the construction company should not exceed seven.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to pay close attention to agricultural subsidies.
The event takes place as part of the order of the head of state to prepare students for the new school year.
The day before, Yessimov held a number of bilateral meetings with IOC members and the official delegation of Kuala Lumpur.
Kazakhstan is also achieving many successes in the railway industry.
The press conference will be attended by representatives of the Ministries of Internal Affairs, Education and Science of Kazakhstan.
In total, this year it is planned to build, repair and hand over 92,580 square meters of living space.
The book has many drawings, 4 thousand copies in Kazakh, 2 thousand in Russian, 1 in English, "said Kousbek Botbai, president of the Kazakhpart publishing corporation.
The national kickboxing team of Kazakhstan will prepare for the World Cup in full contact in the double from November 21 to 29 at the training camp in Semipalatinsk from November 10 to 19.
representatives of large Ukrainian companies in the field of aircraft industry, mining and mechanical engineering, exploration, agriculture and grain production.
the representative of Celestial 17 differed in the weight category and won silver from the representative of India, who raised "gold" and "78."
the enterprise conducts appropriate preparatory work, uses labor and equipment.
According to him, in addition to the Kazakh economy, rich in raw materials, the Russian and Brazilian economies have been struggling with difficulties since 2013.
and awareness of accountability for gaps in transparency.
the goal is to convey to neurosurgeons information about neurosurgical diseases and methods of their treatment.
In addition, Massimov was forced to supply changes in the economic situation that will affect the development of production.
To date, 5 investment forums worth 100 billion tenge are being implemented at the exhibition.	the cost of these projects is over kzt 100 billion .	0,85
The transport logistics hub in Horgos attaches particular importance to the launch of a large-scale project.	particular importance is attached to the launch of a large-scale project - the transport and logistics hub in khorgos .	0,85
it is considering adopting a set of measures for the development of domestic arbitration, operating according to generally accepted international standards.	we should consider the adoption of a package of measures for the development of domestic arbitration , operating according to the generally accepted international standards .	0,85
The Vice Minister also noted that the draft code simplified measures for employers to hire, transfer personnel, dismiss an employee, determine working conditions and pay for them.	however , the draft code , simplified procedures for hire , personnel movement , dismissal , determined the terms and salary .	0,85
In addition, a number of agreements were signed between Almaty enterprises and expo general contractors totaling 10 billion tenge.	some almaty companies and general contractors of expo signed a number of agreements on cooperation he totaling over 10 billion tenge .	0,85
Minister of Foreign Economic Relations and Foreign Affairs of Hungary Peter Siyyarto in his letter noted that the upcoming exhibition will be an excellent basis for both b2b activities and dialogue between experts on energy consumption and strengthening.	minister of foreign affairs and trade of hungary peter szijjarto noted that this exhibition will provide a basis for b2b sales and dialogue on energy consumption .	0,85
according to foreign practice, the issue of subsidizing interest rates when issuing loans from the fund is being worked out, "he said.
The results of the working trip were summed up at the meeting in the Governor's Office of the city, during which B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions to the central state bodies and local authorities.
The head of state noted that the joint work of the two enterprises is an important part of the country's industrialization program.
The head of state expressed confidence that the visit will strengthen bilateral cooperation and bring it to a new level.
According to the expert, although the reduction in export growth is not as intense as in the field of mineral resources, there are indicators.
The Union of Transport and Logistics Organizations kazlogostics "are single transport public associations, which include associations of the transport industry and research institutes.
nurlan erimbets political scientist:
the proposal was made by the deputy of the Majilis, chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan Gulzhana Karagusova.
The meeting of the club was attended by white "zamunaigaz," "kazatomprom," white "kegok," as well as public organizations and a garden.
The organizer of the event is the republican scientific and practical center "Daryn" of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
diplomatic relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan were established on February 12, 1992.
We plan to direct funds to the logistics and industrial zone.
As of October 1, 2015, the number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises increased by 28% and amounted to 285388 people.
The Ukrainian president also thanked the head of state for the warm meeting on Kazakh soil.
After the tenge goes into free circulation, the Governor's Office of the city daily monitors prices in exchange bureaus, electronics stores, gas stations, "said A. Lukin.
t. sarkisyan is supported by the President of Russia. t. sargsyan candidacy is supported by russia .
To date, a government decree is being prepared for official publication signed by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
a. During the meeting, Dzhaksybekov touched upon infrastructure issues, paths to new facilities, professional personnel of new educational and medical institutions.
Due to the fact that Kazakhstan is one of the main exporters of wheat in the world market, and Egypt is its largest importer, both sides noted the importance of resuming the export of Kazakh wheat to the Egyptian market and agreed to work together in this direction.
So, in the village of Shakpak baba, the "mining industry" sowed 2860 apples on an area of ​ ​ 100 hectares and collected 5 kg of apples from each bottom of the apple sown in the first years.
Visiting the new facility, the head of the region congratulated the audience on the commissioning of the healthcare facility, noting that all the conditions for providing high-quality medical care were created in this clinic.
this area is primarily very sensitive to the population.
The main areas of cooperation are the deepening of integration in the field of forestry and agriculture, energy, mineral resources, construction, transport, as well as information and telecommunications technologies, culture and education.
sagadiyev assured that the basis for such success was political macroeconomic stability in Kazakhstan.
According to K. Tokayev, the culture of global peace, the moral value of the new generation, the principles of interreligious life require full understanding and awareness on the part of the members of the community of the nation.
The Union of Artists of Kazakhstan presented more than 70 works.
amitech astana chs "kaznex invest," organized by the Uzbek trade mission, began close cooperation with the Crimeans of the city of Tashkent and the Tashkent region.
the increase in bread prices was equal to the price of producers of implementation (wholesale) prices in the act by 10% from 76 to 86 tenge/kg, in Kostanay - by 6% from 63 to 67 tenge/kg, chicken eggs of the 1st category, 10 pieces.
The possibility of concluding a memorandum on the opening of direct flights between the Association of Tour Operators of Brazil and Astana Expo-2017 was also announced.
all of them are sold mainly in the field of agriculture, "the report said.
During the active stage of the event, exercises were organized on centers of chemical exploration, assessment and forecasting of the chemical situation, sanitary cleaning and evacuation of damaged personnel from chemical poisoning zones.
People's Artist of Russia, conductor V. Gergiev wished the head of state good health, success and success in all undertakings.
As you know, the "terracotta troops" are one of the world's most famous monuments of historical and cultural heritage of the world UNESCO and are included in the list of state-level sites in China.
In 2015, the phased implementation of 12-year education will begin without additional cash allocation. from 2015 there will be the phased introduction of 12-year education without additional funds .
a civil servant who worked as efficiently as possible will receive additional bonuses, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
In an interview with aviators, the author of the coat of arms spoke about the creation of the country's national symbols, its significance in the formation and development of Kazakhstan.
Therefore, the Ministry of Ecology insists that the issue of monitoring the environmental impact of the Baikonur cosmodrome was carried out by our competent authority in the field of space activities, "he said.
Also, according to the director of the system operator of the national dispatch center "kegoc," currently the capacity is about 1,450 megawatts.
At the end of the first part of the festival, famous designers of Kazakhstan held master classes and shared their experience.
in this regard, it is envisaged to establish its own apparatus of the supreme judicial council, which will strengthen the independence of the structure.
- A number of administrative and humanitarian measures should be taken.
Within a month, fighters, who have undergone enhanced training under the guidance of experienced instructors, will take part in the international competition "Commonwealth Warrior."
In general, the implementation of these projects will increase the share of green energy in electricity production in the region to 40%.
Earlier in May this year, the Eurasian Economic Commission held a number of events to discuss draft main directions in all eurozone countries.
A number of congratulations dedicated to the birthday of the President of Kazakhstan and the Day of the Capital came from the Russian Federation.
well-known historians, including domestic and foreign specialists, will take part in the conference, "said N. Lapin.
materials on this fact were sent to law enforcement agencies.
many representatives of ethnic groups live in stepnogorsk in peace and harmony, all conditions have been created for them to speak Kazakh, Russian, English.
The main theme of the event was cooperation in the field of the agro-industrial complex and ensuring food security.
Now the winners of the competition will be able to become students of the Chinese University of Mining and Technology, as well as go to the international exhibition "Milan Expo 2015."
in addition, participants in the competition can receive financial support from investors and receive a low-interest loan using the tools of the Development Fund, as well as innovative grants from the national agency for technological development.
the importance of these standards is that they help enterprises to be competitive. these standards are relevant in that they help enterprises to be competitive .
Basically, the proposals related to establishing ties between Almaty region and Chinese regions, including with the Chukotka Uighur Autonomous Region and the border district with Kazakhstan, creating favorable conditions for the work of businessmen to implement fundamental projects, simplify customs procedures, expand ties in the humanitarian sphere, hold tourist fairs, presentations, business forums for the development of tourism.
The meeting discussed the current situation and prospects of Kazakhstan in the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as the current geopolitical situation in the world.
Foreign judges, arbitrators and legal experts will be involved in its work.
in particular, the Minister of National Economy of the Nerbolat Dossayev focused on the content of bills aimed at improving the tax system as part of the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state.
this means the role of the constitution in the life of every citizen. "
Based on the results of the event, a Protocol on bilateral cooperation between Kazkosmos and NGK will be signed for further joint work in the field of space technologies.
In addition, at this stage, the registration of state language training centers and the rating of their activities will be introduced.
- joint declaration of the heads of the Republic of Kazakhstan and China on a new stage of comprehensive strategic partnership;
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of the acquisition by the company of a mining and processing plant, which has significant potential.
The forum will be attended by representatives of Kazakhstan and Ukrainian business circles, representatives of government agencies and national holdings.
The event was attended by the leadership of the Hanoi National Pedagogical University, representatives of the scientific intelligentsia and expert circles of Vietnam, as well as professors, teachers, graduate students and students of the university.
most effective implementation of the main midnet program. the challenge is to implement them with the greatest efficiency .
According to the press service, the EEC board approved amendments to simplify the transfer system for unified air transportation used throughout the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO means integration into international markets, an open market space, which will ensure the country's citizens access to the best world goods. the wto gives kazakhstan the possibility to enter the international market , to have an access to the world 's best goods .
the concert includes various genres of national art: songs and melodies, as well as excellent examples of dance and choral performance.
According to him, a large theatrical show of a cultural nature dedicated to the history, culture and art of the people is held for the first time in Kazakhstan.
Thus, the processes before planning and completion will be carried out completely electronically, "said the Vice Minister.
and the rector of the Ural Federal University of Kazakhstan presented Nursultan Nazarbayev with an honorary doctorate in order to evaluate his outstanding merits in the public service.
The Nұr Otan party regularly analyzes corruption processes and strengthens its leading role in this matter.
It is worth noting that at the expense of all sources of financing in eastern Kazakhstan 70 multi-storey houses with 5,860 apartments are being built.
To date, the city has an employment center, nine medical and social institutions.
At the same time, it should be understood that the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the main law that determines the prospects for the development of our country.
of this number, only six unions actually function, of which only the European Union, EU-Turkey and the EAEU are full customs unions, "the ambassador said.
During the years of independence, women joined all reforms and contributed to the formation of statehood.
Astana Expo 2017 "and the Commissioner of Sections of the French State at Expo 2017 signed a bilateral agreement.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also congratulated k.bettel on chairing the European Union and expressed hope that the new agreement signed by Kazakhstan with the European Union will be ratified in the near future.
Within three years, we plan to become one of the environmentally friendly, high-quality producers of products in the domestic export market, "the President said.
Kazakhstan is systematically working to accede to international anti-corruption conventions and to implement the recommendations of the Istanbul Plan of Action.
we will move on to finding partners, "he said.
In April of this year, the owner of the greenhouse, Kazhymukan Tuyakov, will receive advice from the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the city of Saryagash on expanding his business.
The draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the judicial system of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the status of judges" provides for the tightening of qualification requirements and the mechanism for selecting candidates for suicidal service.
in addition, railway workers, boiler houses of each district are constantly monitored, providing heat supply to settlements of upta, industrial, michurino, international, suburban.
in general, we know that Serbia is a state with a rich history and a fast-growing economy.
According to the first deputy chairman of the party, the goal of the political organization is to ensure the implementation of the state course, stability and agreement of unity, without these simple concepts it is impossible to divide the future development of the country.
Thus, the international master of sports, a participant in the Olympic Games in London, the winner of the Australian Oupen 2015 tournament replenished the piggy bank of our team with another gold medal.
in an honest and uncompromising duel with a famous opponent, demonstrating high sportsmanship and energetic character, you adequately showed your operation - the Republic of Kazakhstan. you 've demonstrated your boxing skills and true grit and deservedly represented your motherland - the republic of kazakhstan in a fair and uncompromising fight against eminent rival .
in all nominations there were many participants. kazakhstan , as elbasy noted , is in the top five countries exporting grain .
Note that the capital is hosting a Kazakh-Ukrainian business forum.
this depends on the category of beneficiaries, that is, civil servants, journalists and cultural workers.
citizens will be compensated for the difference at the old rate, for which citizens need to transfer funds on their deposits to a special account and keep it in the bank for a year.
Of course, the international commission, first of all, considered the potential of each project as part of a global scale.
the corporation operates 6 nuclear power plants with a total capacity of 9800 MW with 12 power units.
segment area.
a. Baimenov participated as a special rapporteur of the forum session "Improving the Future Model."
subsoil users have established ties with companies that receive equipment and technologies worth billions. subsoil users have established contacts with such companies , where they purchase equipment and technologies worth billions of dollars .
It is worth noting that since 2008, annually, on June 9, the international community celebrates World Registration Day.
Recall that in the final, the jury members will determine the winner of the competition and go to represent the Republic of Kazakhstan in the grand final of the Bala turkvizyon contest.
According to him, the range determines services depending on the level of payment, taking into account 8 factors.
in this country, the fuel and energy industry, mining, nuclear energy are especially well developed.
we discuss with our team issues of innovation structure that should be competitive in quality, "said D.
If last year in 77th place, then this year we climbed 36 positions, "he said.
now passes the first stage of the competition, consisting of reception and registration. now it is the first stage of the contest - reception .
The most important thing is to explain to society what is happening now, "said D. Kakyshev.
One of the priority areas in the field of economic relations, the parties called the field of investment.
This was announced at the II meeting of the Kazakh-British intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
As the head of the Union of Machine Builders of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted, problems should be considered by industries.
with full combat equipment, more than 200 fighters passed the five-kilometer mountain crossing through punitive mountains, worked out the elements of identifying and maintaining the "saboteur" in the mountains.
special economic zones will become the main platform for attracting investment.
all this is free.
the plant is equipped with equipment from the Russian company Nika.
Chinese President Xi jinping became the first foreign leader to arrive in Kazakhstan after the presidential election. president xi jinping is the first visited kazakhstan with an official visit after the presidential election .
At the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev, two stages of negotiations took place in Almaty in 2013, which had a significant impact on the formation of an atmosphere of trust between Iran and the international negotiating group and the achievement of a comprehensive plan of joint actions.
he noted the significant actions of Kazakhstan in the fight against extremism and terrorism.
Askar Myrzakhmetov b.b., party chairman, president of A.D. According to Nazarbayev, the "Nurotanovites" especially appreciate the Almaty city branch of the party in the implementation of its tasks.
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have again lowered forecasts for the growth of the world economy.
Stephen Mackintosh informed the Minister about the progress of work on joint projects in the mound and Balkash-yellow sections of the Karaganda region and plans for the future.
The President of the Senate noted with pleasure the conclusion of an agreement on an inter-parliamentary council for cooperation between the highest legislative bodies of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, as well as the holding of the first meeting of this council in the capital.
national strategies are a necessary part of the global system to counter extremism. national policies are becoming an essential element of the global system to counter extremism .
in accordance with the approved world oil prices, taking into account the global commodity market and the socio-economic forecast of Kazakhstan, the development of Kazakhstan has intensified.
In the first half of the year, 69 such instruments were sold.
Recall that the military contingent of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with units of the states that are part of the armed forces, worked out the issue of eliminating the illegal armed formation that invaded the territory of Tajikistan.
having performed the French song brilliantly, he noted that he was proud to perform on the stage of the international competition on behalf of Kazakhstan.
in turn, e. Idrissov thanked his colleague for this decision and encouraged continued cooperation in this format, taking into account common goals and approaches to solving problems of a global nature.
they read the text of the military oath and from that moment officially entered the ranks of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the military rank of "lieutenant."
this will allow Kazakhstan to promote its ideas and methods to solve global issues in the formation of policies in the field of international standardization, as well as taking into account the interests of standardization development in the Central Asian region.
Currently, republican work is being carried out on all facilities, equipment is being repaired, mechanisms and tools are being selected.
Media information and communication technologies.
as well as works of European classics for art lovers - the Caesar Franca la Major sonata, the preamble and allegro of French cruisers, etc., solo minor sonata No. 1 bach.
According to M. Zhakhmetov.
our tank crews have extensive experience participating in biathlon.
they did not spare help, indicated the road, shared useful information.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the assembly of the North Kazakhstan region occupies a worthy place in the country to implement the tasks within the framework of the year of the assembly, the plan of the nation, the nationwide patriotic idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," and the promotion of the country brand "country of the great steppe."
Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov expressed confidence that the personnel of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the current conditions will strictly comply with the requirements of the president and is always ready to interact with all levels of the deputy corps, the Nұr Otan party, the public and the media.
During the visit, the parties agreed to develop production, maintain a stable workplace and work together to ensure the socio-economic growth of the region.
this is ensuring the further development of the city, small and medium-sized businesses with attracting investments, creating new jobs, creating a comfortable environment for citizens.
The list of small entities that should announce and raise tariffs annually on the basis of the consumer price index is increasing.
Discussing the prospects for joint work, the parties proposed to develop and deepen forms of cooperation aimed at combating corruption, extremism and terrorism, transnational organized crime, money laundering committed by criminal means, drug transportation, cybercrime.
agricultural production and fish products, as well as phosphate production, constitute the main sectors of the economy.
According to the results of testing, a number of motorized rifle, tank, engineer-sapper platoons and mortar batteries were determined.
To date, 1,103 children and adolescents between the ages of 1 and 18 with 1 typegicant diabetes are provided with insulin pumps. currently , 1,103 children and adolescents ( 1 - 18 years old ) with type 1 diabetes are provided with insulin pumps .
together with the basic law, the bill "On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Public Procurement" was approved.
An exhibition of goods of Kazakhstan production will also be organized.
As for the third cosmonautics, as the head of state noted, the aymbet month carried out the fifth experience of space research in Kazakhstan.
Funds for the construction and maintenance of facilities should work for the city economy, "said B. Baibek.
During the work, they discussed the preparation of cases for trial, the use of audiovisual recording, the quality of canceled and amended judicial acts.
in recent years, a lot of work has been done to improve the quality of sports work and strengthen the sports base. in recent years much work has been done to improve the quality of sports activities and strengthen the sports facilities , train athletes of higher sportsmanship and engage people in physical culture and sports , " a.mukhamediuly has said .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that in order to improve the economic performance of the company, it is necessary to get rid of non-core assets.
Within 3 tranches of the National Fund of Kazakhstan 129 projects were financed for a total amount of loans of 16.9 billion tenge.
I call on all religious figures in such a difficult and difficult period to promote consent, tolerance and pardon twice as much, "said the leader of the nation.
innovations, high-tech medicine and international exchange of experience are being introduced in the capital.
I think that our today's meeting dedicated to the work of the Kazakh writer Ilyas Esenberlin and his 100th birthday will contribute to the further development of this bilateral cooperation, "said Vladimir Gnezdilov.
this is a professional, voluminous document with a specific meaning, introduced on the initiative of the Russian side.
then within the framework of the event, problems and prospects for the development of oncological services for the coming years were discussed.
construction and installation work on reconstruction was carried out by Elite Building Service LLP.
A draft law on agricultural cooperation had been drafted to address those gaps.
He began his career in 1982 as the chief agronomist of the Karamysh state farm in the Pskov region.
In addition, Almaty has 70% of the necessary sports facilities for compact accommodation, which are an economical and stable look that fully corresponds to the order 2020.
using phones, smartphones and tablets, every Kazakhstani has the opportunity to receive government services.
It is worth noting that Kazavtodor conducts similar events in all regions of the country aimed at reducing the number of accidents.
in the nomination of academic singing, the chairman of the jury will be a professor at the Kazakh National University of Arts rope omarbayev.
the mutual sanctions suffered by the third world and ordinary people must be stopped. we must stop the mutual sanctions that hurt the most affected third world and ordinary people .
During the solemn evening, the songs and poems of the Kazakh poet were performed by the bibiguls, the goals of makulbek, ramazan stamgaziev, daniyar baizhumanov, abilakhit espaev, shakizada, etc.
In 2013-2014, more than 300 Kazakh and foreign top managers took part in the event.
One of the relevant areas of the meeting is countering extremism and terrorism and the beginning of peace. actual direction of work of the council would address the initiation of the world to combat extremism and terrorism .
As part of the working trip, the Minister visited a number of industrial facilities, and also took part in the solemn ceremony of the release of the first products of Aktobinsky Rail Plant LLP.
most public services are provided at the district level.
completes shooting and goes to the finish line.
if changes are made, they will be aimed only at expanding the representation of other authorities, "said I. Rogov.
We are considering an expanded privatization program, which may include factories. the expansion of the privatization program is being considered .
Also this year, 1 billion 371.9 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget as a loan.
New graduates who graduate from world-class educational institutions come into life.
The bill was developed in accordance with the National Plan - 100 steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state.
for the Western European-West Chinese project, construction work is underway on the diamond-lead highway.
The commission conducts work on the reception and consideration of documents.
there is no energy-free transport.
strengthening democracy, expanding the powers of parliament and implementing decentralization, we should not ignore the stability of the political system in the formula "strong president - an influential parliament - reporting government," - said K. Tokayev.
Within the framework of this document, Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus noted the field of production of railway equipment as one of the priority areas of the partnership.
the conference was organized with the assistance of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia by the Institute of Asian and African Countries of Lomonosov Moscow State University (hereinafter referred to as the Aaei) and the Center for Oriental Literature of the Russian State Library.
Another component of the open government is "openness," which was created to discuss bills, standards of public services and permits developed by citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I am sure that the Chinese side will contribute to the further strengthening of Olympic traditions, which at a high level organize the Olympic Games, popularize the friendship of peoples and peace, "the congratulation says.
From the very beginning, our relations are very unusual, and we will continue this in this direction, "said K. Makimov.
For the first time in Kazakhstan, with the support of the head of state, an Olympiad is being held, in which delegates from more than 80 countries take part. for the first time with the support of the head of state kazakhstan holds the olympiad , which has brought together participants from over 80 countries .
During the meeting, Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev congratulated the Chairman of the Board of National Nuclear Company Kazatomprom JSC on his appointment to a new position and briefly focused on the work of the regional branches of the enterprise, "the statement said.
During the reporting period, 2,797 people were consulted in the Business Service Centre under the Government's accounting, jurisprudence, marketing and entrepreneurship support programmes.
If we consider 100 steps of the National Plan, then 50 steps should be taken in the economy and social sphere. in national plan there are 50 steps related to the economy and social sphere .
Further expansion of the geography of cargo transport, for which work will be carried out on signing new agreements in the field of international road transport with Denmark, Portugal and baa.
The fact that the state gives children the opportunity to start a new life will be a great warning, "he said.
In the last 3 years alone, 72 investment and trade agreements were signed between Kazakhstan and Germany for a total amount of about 4 billion euros, 12 investment projects were implemented for a total amount of 700 million euros.
with the help of Swiss partners, we intend to simplify the procedure for issuing visas, especially for businessmen who intend to establish partnerships with French colleagues. we have the assistance of swiss colleagues to simplify the procedure for issuing visas , especially for business people who intend to establish a partnership with french colleagues .
During the event, all citizens who applied received qualified legal assistance on adoption issues.
now we live in a better period.
creation of joint ventures is a good experience, "A.Rakimzhanov said.
According to the people's representative, here, on the basis of small production, they produce products marked "Made in Kazakhstan."
According to him, the simplification of the visa regime will positively affect trade and economic relations between the two countries.
According to him, despite the fact that it is more difficult to work in a country remote from his family and relatives, if necessary, he is ready to go on a mission again.
as part of a joint exhibition of more than 80 paintings. the joint exhibition includes more than 80 paintings .
today's exhibits were brought from otras and Turkestan. this exhibition was brought from otrar and turkestan .
a. Dzhaksybekov officially launched all projects.
The President congratulated the participants of the contest on Family Day, which is celebrated in Kazakhstan every second Sunday of September.
all manufactured products have a st-kz certificate, where the share of Kazakh content is 50-75%.
G. Abdykalikova focused on those present at the will of the head of state - "to become a highly educated nation in order to become a developed competitive country."
During the month, participants received strong training under the guidance of experienced instructors and will take part in the international competition "Commonwealth Warrior" from July 17 to 25, 2015.
Recall that last year, together with Russian sailors, large exercises were held on the reservoir of Kazakhstan.
the heraldic commission is a consultative and advisory body under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which considers the heraldic description of departmental awards of state bodies and proposals for improving legislation in this area.
we learned about the competition last year, but decided to wait.
because there is increasing competition for quality goods at affordable prices.
the state provides comprehensive support to talented journalists and the implementation of bold information projects. the government fully encourages talented journalists and the implementation of the ambitious project information .
The volume of quotas for raising funds approved by the Government of Kazakhstan in 2015 amounted to 0.7% (about 63.9 thousand people) of the total economically active population of the republic, "said B. Nurymbetov.
Recall that at the judo world championship in the capital more than 700 athletes from 120 countries of the world took part.
The procedure for testing in UNT venues is established for all graduates: 1st day - testing, 2nd day - appeal.
According to the Secretary of State, women play a major role in the implementation of the national plan.
Chairman of the Coordinating Council delivered a report by Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan V.K. Bozhko on the implementation of the plan of exercises and the implementation of other joint measures to train the interaction of authorized bodies of member states in the field of preventing and eliminating violence.
he also expressed confidence that the Expo-2017 exhibition will give a powerful impetus to the technological development of the entire region.
According to Keshubaev, we are talking about the construction of correctional institutions on the basis of public-private partnership.
however, according to the Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan, the parties can provide each other with other types of assistance, which are not contrary to national legislation.
Given that the national bank expanded this corridor, how wide the corridor was, it was possible to adjust the main direction of tenge.
this type of control is carried out remotely, in which information databases available in the state are analyzed, which are compared with other data, corresponding links are compiled, on which appropriate measures are taken.
50,478 residential objects worth 439.7 billion tenge, 26,161 non-residential objects worth 144.3 billion tenge were received, including 6,199 billion tenge - 102.8 commercial objects, 20 interests of legal entities worth 1.4 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.
The head of state noted that the main weight in the preparation of festive events will fall on the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
In general, the average yield of securities acquired by the National Bank in 2015 was 8.3%, "said K. Elimbetov.
this will help the Kazakh people.
it has strengthened mutually beneficial partnerships between the two countries.
also shared effective information and advice on starting a business, finding investors.
The press conference will be attended by the first President of Kazakhstan - Executive Director of the Head of State Foundation, Chairman of the Union of Writers of Kazakhstan Nurlan Orazalin and Editor-in-Chief of the Kazakhstan Pravda newspaper Alexander Tarakov.
The capital, created in a short time in wide Darkhan steppes, is, according to a Canadian journalist, the development of the country's economy and a manifestation of the strength of the state as a whole.
27.6% of the total amount of approved subsidies falls on borrowers of Almaty region, 7 contracts were approved in this region for the amount of subsidies 106.4 million tenge to be paid in 2015.
After reconnaissance and careful control of the enemy, the soldiers, together with the officers, concentrated military equipment and personnel in the provided area, attacked and captured the criminals.
The sides also exchanged views on the development of bilateral cooperation in the judicial and other spheres.
The participants of the seminar were akims and deputies of the regions, deputies of maslikhats, heads of organizations and institutions, as well as heads of departments.
this is evidenced by the work of Okhmk LLC.
systemic, centralized actions to increase the volume of purchases of products of domestic manufacturers will create a balance between the production and consumption of goods on the domestic market, explained Yu. Yakupbayeva.
a. Dzhaksybekov got acquainted with the progress of work at the main facilities of the upcoming exhibition, the national company reported.
It is worth noting that these projects will create about 20,000 jobs.
representatives of the IOC will speak, where the athlete noted that in his speech he "shakes the hearts" of the general public.
The kindergarten provides all opportunities for the comprehensive development of children.
According to the chairman of the meeting, the revival of the economy of the Silk Road region is a plan for the development of Eurasia as a whole.
two grandchildren of our parents were educated on a scholarship from the president of Future, the eldest son of the Jacques family said in an exclusive interview with strategy2050.kz.
Following the meeting, government bodies and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs made a number of relevant recommendations aimed at improving the conditions for doing business and protecting entrepreneurs from illegal inspections.
the peculiarity of the modern economy is that not a single national economy can do without imports. the peculiarity of the modern economy is in the fact that there is no economy sector functioning independently , it relies on import .
He noted that today our country is recognized as a developed democratic country around the world, the contribution of women to it is small.
He spoke about the problems of the anti-corruption policy of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025 and its prospects.
Within the framework of this bill, issues of the construction of light rail were discussed.
exchange of experience in the framework of combat training in a mountainous forest area is an important aspect, "said the Tasmagambets imangali.
today I want to dwell on such a special direction as the future of a united nation. today i would like to highlight this important area as the formation of a single nation of the future .
The German side, in turn, praised the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," noting the importance of the foreign policy initiatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan as part of the process of reforming the pair.
The fact that the bank is at the Ulbinsky plant means a high level of plant safety and increased trust in specialists, "he said.
4 thousand 257 people were employed, of which 1 thousand 773 people were employed under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
Kamyshensky peasant farm builds a dairy farm for 350 livestock at its own expense.
the strategic task of creating a judicial system that will increase the confidence of citizens in the country and the judicial system is being solved, "said K. Zhakupov.
we can proudly talk about our product. our products are very good .
in addition, three more dormitories are being built at a rapid pace: on the territory of the Kazakh Agricultural University named after St. Seifullin in the capital, educational building No. 9 in Shymkent and dormitory kazutu named after k.i.satpayev.
According to him, the company grows fruits on an area of ​ ​ 50 hectares, grows 161 hectares of vegetables.
The sides exchanged views on the prospects of bilateral and multilateral cooperation within the framework of traditional openness and mutual understanding of Kazakh-Malaysian relations.
The leadership of the exercises highly appreciated the level of training of Kazakhstani servicemen, their equipment, mobility when sent to long distances, qualification in fulfilling tasks on targets.
black is the pride of not only the Karaganda region, but the whole of Kazakhstan.
the president's message "Way to a bright future" and the program of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" are aimed at strengthening public harmony and peace, "the expert said.
It is worth noting that today this project has a positive conclusion of the state expertise on a technical and economic basis, prepared on a white order "samruk-energo."
this soldier has the potential of a good soldier, "said the commander.
The competition was attended by experienced business representatives, initiators of startup projects and representatives of women's entrepreneurship.
I sincerely congratulate you on the beginning of such a competition. i congratulate you on the beginning of the asian championship on billiards .
According to the results, it turned out that children have a low interest in physical culture, "said R. Temirbekov.
its domestic consumption is 650 thousand tons, everything else is exported.
In East Kazakhstan region, doctors of the Cannyam Northerners Clinic of Ence University spent 3 days.
in his opinion, the achievements of Kazakhstan in recent years have been due to the wise policy and experience of the head of state.
"I know that there are two riches in life: one is family, the second is housing.
this is beneficial to everyone - revenues will come to the budget, our goods will appear in the country.
the conference was opened by the first vice president of the Norwegian parliament.
the device is small in size and has a fastening system that allows you to install additional equipment in it, as well as a large volume of the breathing bag to be repaired, "the report said.
Among the recipients of apartments are orphans, large and incomplete families, people with disabilities.
in addition, along with spending its own funds, sat nickel will attract investors.
I am glad that all the products we need will be produced in Kyzylorda, "said A. Zhumagaliyev.
The unification of the Kazakh society will be carried out within the framework of the task of the "nation of a united future," "M.Babisheva said during the seminar" 100 concrete steps "dedicated to the implementation of 5 institutional reforms in the library of the first president, the leader of the nation.
goods not certified at a certain level will never be in demand, "said the deputy.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhanov noted that the transformation of tax and customs state bodies into a single revenue department and control over economic security and activities have borne fruit.
Belarus submitted an application to evaluate the activities of the veterinary service, in Kyrgyzstan they submitted applications that will be considered next year, "said Isaeva.
upon agreement, it is envisaged to build technical facilities for the production of technical gas in accordance with the requirements of outsourcing, management and operation of plants, plants for the production of hydrogen, nitrogen and other technical gases in Pavlodar and Shymkent.
the project will be implemented in the areas of judicial monitoring and training of judges.
you are young people who can fight for their goals, take people early.
the number of targeted social assistance is reduced if adults do not want to work independently.
For budget organizations purchased 2.2 million liters of diesel fuel for 20.6, billion tenge, and 1,430,8 thousand tons of coal, which is the consumer needs of the population, today there are 1,207,9 thousand tons in warehouses of the region.
sandwich panels are used for the construction of boiler and heating networks, the modernization of industrial complexes, production facilities, and so on.
this impeded the development of entrepreneurship and industry.
During the consultations, they discussed the preparation of the next meeting of the Kazakh-Israeli intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation.
according to him, attention is also paid to the transparency of the privatization process.
Activities such as testing, situational tasks and consultations are carried out to assess the competence of administrative public servants.
we are considering cooperation in the development of the curriculum and the relationship with the activities of basic universities. we are to consider issues related to joint educational programs .
Currently, the project is completing the construction of a 2-story workshop, the necessary Russian-made installation has been purchased.
During the meeting, issues of further development of medicine and development of cardiac surgery and cardiac surgery in Kazakhstan were discussed.
According to him, the main goal of the action is to attract a large number of local executive bodies, educational bodies, sponsors and patrons.
The event was organized by the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region with the support of the regional Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, a single children's and youth organization "Zhas Ulan."
if you look at world history, then Germany is the world leader in the production of finished products, "said A. Arynov.
thanks to his foundations and ideals, he became a spiritual brand and became world famous, "said B. Baibek.
the school is equipped with a modern educational and material base necessary for the high-quality organization of the educational, educational process and physical improvement.
we have begun to develop a state-wide health system that provides for an integrated system of each medical organization, consisting of integration, detailed databases. we have begun to work on system of electronic health care , it provides the detailed database , and we will receive information about each patient .
thousands of tourists come to this area every year with a rich history and culture.
among them are visits at the level of the president, prime ministers.
agricultural producers discussed the preparation of feed, active intervention in harvesting.
This time, private Lunara Baimukhametova, senior lieutenant aliya khairullina, junior sergeant saltat gabdullasheva, sergeant bayan zhaparova, junior sergeant botagoz musaev and madina amanzholova, corporal asem sekhimbayeva and senior lieutenant bot korobaev went to the training ground.
As the President noted, for its part, Kazakhstan is increasing the export of industrial grain in different countries, as well as building new markets and a transport highway for access to the ocean.
As of October 1, 2015, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 356,900 units and increased by 1.7% compared to the same period last year, including 347,842 units with less than 100 employees.
the task of each of them in the second final test is to demonstrate organized and compact actions, better physical training, as well as high results of mobile and tactical training.
The National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan pays special attention to the protection of children's rights. the national commission for women affairs , family and demographic policy for the president of kazakhstan pays special attention to the protection of children 's rights .
We are confident that membership in the WTO will contribute to the growth of the national economy, foreign investment in technology, which is reflected in 5 institutional reforms of Kazakhstan, "said A. Volkov.
According to the Secretary General of the world community of Buddhists, this congress is held regularly in Kazakhstan, where more than 100 ethnic groups and 40 religious coffee shops live.
these changes will increase the maximum coverage of innovators in industry terms, "said Tdua Deputy Chairman of the Board.
According to the Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan, for this they have chosen 4 main directions.
thanks for the interview!
According to the guest, mutually beneficial ties between the legislators of the two countries are the main manifestation of the successful advancement of Kazakh-Chinese relations.
the organizers relied on the basis of expo 2017 when choosing the theme of the festival.
The tourism potential of Akmola region came out with bright expositions presented by the Department of Tourism of Akmola region together with 14 subjects of tourism business: "kokshetau" mutp, "diamond," sanatoriums "Shchuchinsky," "discovery-boron" rso, Hotel "park house hotel," "ainakol," terrace park, "priozny" bdo, "rest center" and other tourism.
The transfer of the head offices of enterprises to Shymkent and Kyzylorda will make a significant contribution to the socio-economic development of these regions, namely, new industries and jobs will open and revenues will increase to the local budget.
This year, 81 submissions were submitted to the public commission, in particular, 64 of them concern journalists, 17 - creative groups.
three-story month, "which meets modern requirements and provides pupils with high-level conditions.
the creation of a cycling team is aimed at improving the image of the Kazakh cosmodrome, the image of the country as a whole.
the personnel of the military institute takes part in competitions of the city, district, republican, armed forces and international scale and takes prizes.
Also, the meeting participants got acquainted with the project "On the early development of children" of a member of the national commission, the project "sole child," created by the Baurzhan public foundation.
Vernadsky even put the amine on her knees, hit her on the back and said that this girl has a good appetite. "
Following the results of the competition, the winner of the artillery duel exercises, representing the armed forces of Kazakhstan at international competitions of the best field training of artillery units in the framework of joint cooperation between the armed forces of the CIS member countries, will be determined.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will not only increase competition, improve the quality of national personnel, but also increase the quality of life of Kazakhstanis, growth and income of the economy.
wingbird - the image of a rampart, vigilance, as soon as everything begins.
on the one hand, this will make it possible to extend the obligations of Kazakhstan by joining the WTO on the market, on the other hand, to create a management system that will not lead to tariff differences, does not cause any losses to partner states in the union, "said V. Khristenko.
in addition, b. The President of Amireevsky Zhibuchi said that in 2017 the capital will host a specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" and called on the management and companies of Djibouti to take an active part in this exhibition.
including centralization of a specific part of goods, works and services at the fund level; Portfolio companies plan to optimize strategic procurement categories.
our production is fixed under contractual obligations. mining is regulated by our contractual obligations .
As follows from the report, out of 38 new officers who took office, 18 joined the ranks of traffic police officers, the rest will occupy other positions: investigator, interrogator, criminologist, district inspector, operative officer.
we highly appreciate your position in providing partnership and attracting mutual investment in the future. we highly appreciate your attitude for further partnership and mutual investments .
On behalf of Kazakhstan, abdulkhan Tleuzhanov presented his speech at this meeting.
all this will contribute to increasing the authority of the capital in world markets and strengthening tourist attractiveness, "said A. Yessimov.
One of the goals is to give experience to representatives of other faiths in different countries.
In addition, Koktal, which has been growing apples since 2004, has an apple orchard for 230 hectares.
In addition, visitors to Kazakhstan and transit passengers of the airline will be provided with free tickets for the 2017 exhibition, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The many years of mutual assistance and mutual support provide a solid foundation for our bilateral relations. mutual assistance and mutual support is a strong basis for our bilateral cooperation .
150 containers in a 20-foot equivalent were transported through portans belonging to Kazakh structures, "he said.
creation and updating of the database of investors operating in the third package; informing investors about changes in investment laws, procedures and conditions; analysis of the effectiveness of meetings with potential investors.
representatives of the two countries also discussed issues of military education, as well as improving the process of training and training of personnel.
In turn, the author of a number of books on the activities of the head of state, the Mahmud Kassymbeks, became the moderator of the event.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country is implementing a program of industrialization and infrastructure development.	the president of kazakhstan informed about conditions for investors .	0,86
associate membership gives kdb access to extensive legal and statistical data related to the development of this financial instrument, as well as the creation of useful business relationships.	associate membership in the lma allows dbk to have access to a wide base of legal and statistical data related to the development of the instrument , as well as to establish useful business contacts .	0,86
we are the first generation of Kazakhstanis who can independently determine their life path, so you should smart use your opportunities, as well as not forget about responsibility to history, people and the state, "the head of state said.
further socio-economic development of the region will be based on the vectors of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan. Ilmukhanbetova.
in our market there are several dozen private companies that have their own parks. in general , the export potential of kazakhstan 's transport engineering is big , " he has added .
on the second floor you can visit the galleries of applied art, ethnography, archeology and anthropology and the gallery of modern art.
As it was noted, through the German energy agency we will share experience and knowledge.
Kazatomprom purchased products from local entrepreneurs and producers worth 5.9 billion tenge.
consultants provided more than 8 thousand 400 services for all state support tools on the principle of "one window."
I recently participated in a thematic debate on tolerance, harmony and unity.
the introduction of new standards of secondary education and is carried out as part of a phased completion.
The "detachment" farm base with 60 livestock was also repaired.
I suggested a number of methods, Kazakhstani athletes were not familiar with some of them.
According to him, the country's accession to the WTO will force Kazakhstan's business to improve its activities.
Chairman of the Interstate Aviation Committee noted that it is the anodine who knows Nursultan Nazarbayev as an outstanding statesman, a talented organizer and leader who has made an invaluable contribution to the development of the republic.
Pupils of 3 orphanages and boarding schools (Kostanay regional orphanage, Kostanay correctional boarding school No. 2 for orphans and children left without parental care, ore correctional boarding school No. 1 for orphans and children left without parental care) have their own recreation center.
intensive harvesting is underway in the southern regions of Kazakhstan.
I believe that the children's camp is very useful in raising our children, in their development.
in addition, five startups will be presented as part of the events, including 10 finalists, of which 3 are Kazakhstani startups.
the author of the state flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the Honored Artist of Kazakhstan Shaken Niyazbek.
this is creative, which is a look from the horizon and space of time above everyday life.
In 2009, in order to develop all types of art in the capital, the Kazakh National Music Academy was transformed into the Kazakh National University of Arts.
we used to have approved exchange rate practice, today we have switched to free circulation.	this is the first result of the first morning session , after the transition to a free floating ,  he has said .
Currently, the contracting organization is laying asphalt concrete pavement with a length of 100 km in two sections. at the moment the contractor puts the asphalt coating simultaneously on two sites of the road .
According to the specialist, the subject of "self-knowledge" unites the school, family and society.
Also striving are giants such as France, Korea, China, Croatia, Poland, Australia.
every person should be a leading star. every person has a guiding star .
Creation of new industries and jobs.
the pride of Kazakhstanis is the new capital, which in two years will host the international exhibition "Expo 2017."
What obligations does the Government of Kazakhstan undertake?
According to the Marat crown, the issue of the post-crisis development of the world requires new approaches to governance from leaders.
The building will be ready by October 30, "said the head doctor of the regional hospital.
Considering the possibilities of this market, we must create a legislative justification for the activities of the business circles of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria, "said Tsachev.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this visit was made at the invitation of the UN Secretary General to participate in the anniversary session.
our task is to help them in every way, "said Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan Baibek.
According to the head of the information and bibliographic service of the national library named after, the training will be carried out by highly qualified library specialists in Kazakhstan, as well as invited professor phd, doctor of information and library sciences, chief librarian of Seoul University "Hanyan" hwichol (south Korea).
a pre-trial decision will now be issued. now there will be a pre-trial settlement of disputes .
According to G. Lesbekov, the opinion that the small and medium-sized business industry will not receive support should not be distributed to the public.
it is with this technology that the old asphalt is milled, after which stone material and cement are added to it.
Currently, all work is underway in this area, in the next 2-3 weeks we will announce the terms of compensation.
the main work is carried out in the closed form of the plant.
business cooperation between the trade and industrial groups of the two states will also be strengthened, "he said.
the traditional family - the basis of the state, in turn, and in Kazakhstan a number of works are carried out to maintain family values ​ ​ and preserve the family.
automatic disassembly and assembly, wearing gas and combined arms defense kits, passing obstacles, wounding, using radio communications - teenagers underwent this training without separation from the soldier.
Documents on Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU are undergoing domestic procedures, they have not yet arrived for ratification, "K. Zhakupov said.
the bill was closely linked to the nation's plan, which provided comprehensive explanations on the use of the national flag. this bill is associated with the national plan , the use of the national flag - detalization of the government of kazakhstan and the authorized body on the introduction of new effective methods of use and popularization of the state symbols .
This was shown by the results of the program adopted in November 2014.
2.5 million people took part in the passing of this test.
The main goal of the center is to strengthen cooperation in the field of r & d, between companies of the two countries and research institutions.	as for new technologies and science , in july special zone  park of innovative technologies " held a business forum .
to this end, the company reconstructs existing plants and builds new technological plants: an isomerization plant, a sulfur production plant with a capacity of 4000 tons per year, a reconstruction of a diesel fuel hydrotreating plant.
Zhang dejiang stressed that the Chinese side attaches great importance to the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan.
l. holgate n. emphasizing Nazarbayev's historical decisions, including Kazakhstan's contribution to the maintenance of world security, he noted that this contribution of Kazakhstan has not lost its relevance today.
True, at some point the norms of the law will be incompatible with each other, in which case we will attract the constitution that we received, the judge said.
As the judge noted, the constitution spells out all the main bodies and their functions.
According to the general director of the mimic company, this is the first and only Kazakh brand of children's clothing.
The memorandum is aimed at creating a production of ready-made food for social institutions, such as schools, universities, hospitals.
It is noted that last year, the Dikhanovites of the Zhambyl region established drip and rain irrigation on an area of ​ ​ 4,281 hectares, and in 2013 this figure was 2,881 hectares.
A system work plan will first be developed for the clear implementation of this step.	this reform requires the direct participation of every citizen of kazakhstan ,  he said .
For several years, the founders of the company directed the income from the university's activities to the development of the company and sought to increase share capital, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
since the existence of the Union, one of the main events has been the membership of the Republic of Armenia in the EAEU, the process of accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the EEO Treaty, the creation of a free trade zone with Vietnam.
this will strengthen business relations and create favorable conditions for the integration of business in the bilateral direction.
to do this, we got a new technique that listens to crops in the spring, when no transport can drive through the valley.
we determine not only the territory of states that have been migrating on the Eurasian continent for centuries, but also what social deficit of the population, "K. Aktayeva added.
More than 400 servicemen of various specialties take part in the tests.
our composers will have a collected potpourri from famous musical works and folk songs, "said Major Timur Halfback, head of the military orchestra service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to introduce into practice mandatory viewing of audio and video recordings of lower court sessions, which will be considered at the appellate level in specific cases, "he said.
state symbols are not only an instrument of pride in the chest when we conduct Olympic athletes, but also an understanding that state authorities and public relations in Kazakhstan are stable, that they live together, "the expert explained.
Representatives of the Austrian business community expressed interest in the upcoming international exhibition "Expo-2017" and noted that the topic "energy of the future" corresponds to the interests of firms with extensive experience in the development of clean and renewable types of energy.
in particular, Polish delegates expressed interest in the construction of an international airport with a cargo terminal, the organization of a modern transport and logistics center, the construction of a greenhouse and poultry production of meat and the creation of a production of artificial snow.
The event will be attended by the head of state and heads of other countries, representatives of the international community, representatives of foreign and domestic parks.
We need a systematic approach, it is unprofitable for the state to work individually with each enterprise, and together we can express our common opinion, "said the head of the Union of Light Industry Manufacturers.
We will remind, earlier it became known about the creation of an industry union in October of this year.
scientific and practical measures to introduce new technologies into the processing and processing of dairy production.
this plant is one of the largest in the region.
It is necessary to erect a monument at the meeting place, the future generation should know the beginning of history, the place of creation of the state, "said Alexander.
In recent years, the number of citizens coming to Georgia from Kazakhstan has been growing sharply, and this is manifested in the dynamic development of friendly relations between our states.
The operational collection is carried out in order to improve the professional skills of the management staff, master new models, strengthen relations between the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which are part of the department, implement joint tasks, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
In addition, meetings are planned with the President of Russia Vladimir Nazarbayev, as well as with the leadership of the Sverdlovsk region and the Ural Federal University.
some transactions with money and other property subject to financial monitoring are specified and additionally provided.
Next year, he will not re-issue documents, then credit funds will be transferred to him through a "credit line" with an interest rate of 9.5% per annum.
since then, there have been many events, but the interest of the Kazakh government in EXPO-2017 has not decreased.
not only Kazakhstan, but also the CIS countries are proud of this.
all specialties at our university are in demand, but the competition has become large in the field of mechatronics, environmental safety, control and safety of food products, innovative technologies, food production from animal and vegetable oil. all specialties are widely demanded , but the mechatronics , environmental safety , control and food safety , innovative technology , production of animal and vegetable raw materials - are the most attractive .
he said it was the first time he had drawn blood to help a woman giving birth.
According to the press service of the committee, the package of documents has been reduced to receive a certificate on approval of the type of measuring instruments for the state service provided (from 8 to 3), the term for rendering services from 20 to 15 working days a package of documents for obtaining a certificate of metrological certification from 7 to 2, reduced the period of service provision from 20 to 15 working days, also reduced the period of provision of public service from 20 to 5 working days for the coordination of regulatory documents for the implementation of activities by metrological services of government bodies, individuals and legal entities.
The organization of large-scale events, such as big professional sports and expo, works on one mechanism - increasing Kazakhstan's authority at the international level. i think the big professional sports , holding large-scale events such as the expo - it works as a single mechanism , not just raising awareness of the country and form its unique international character .
the primary need for the education system is the need to form qualifications, voluntary development and development at the professional level, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
fourthly, there is provision for the training and development of space personnel. fourthly , a system of training and retraining and advanced training for the space industry was formed .
its goal is to contribute to the strengthening of harmony and peace in the region, to modernize and preserve Romanian culture.
At the same time, as the mayors of the Zhanutdins noted, the total number of minors deprived of their liberty decreased from 15.6% to 14.2%.
We strive to ensure that a workable woman in every Kazakh family works and develops, learns all her life.
in order to strengthen economic cooperation between our countries, heads of Japanese companies come with me.
they are the main focus of the use and storage of historical and cultural artifacts. "
the development of regionalization methods is the search for answers to challenges, the discovery of a way to update the architecture of the world structure, "said V.Hristenko.
Of course, the state will help our compatriots.
For 6 months of 2015, 60 traffic accidents were recorded, 16 dead and 129 wounded of varying severity.
By the end of the 15th century, the term "Kazakh" appeared, and this date is important for us.
first, the process of forming a base stretching pipeline begins.
in addition, meat, dairy products and confectionery products can be cited as examples.
those issues should not have been neglected.
there is a special plan for each direction. there is a large work plan .
Recall that the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan organized a competition "batyr aryla" among young servicemen.
The director of the Kostanay branch of Kazavtodor reported on construction work to restore the bridge.
The national museum of Kazakhstan plans to open a kha hall.
According to the speaker, deputies work in this direction before the adoption of the law.
At the same time, as the Vice Minister emphasized, the department cooperates with a number of international organizations.
The sides discussed the current state of bilateral cooperation and issues of its further expansion.
a nation formed, all together.
Baccalaureate International is one of the most respected non-governmental organizations in the world.
a draft new code of ethics for judges was being drafted, and a jury was being drafted for citizens appealing against the actions of judges in court.
on a steam platform, we gathered religious leaders to jointly support a peaceful society.
The presentation was moderated by Andris Ozols, Director General of the Latvian Investment and Development Agency.
from dairy products you can get kumys and shubat, this is a complex of vitamins, "the expert noted.
the company plans to sell part of the goods to the countries of the European Union.
We consider the opening of the Kazakhstan terminal in the port of Lianyungan in the Yellow Sea to be an important achievement.
this is evidenced by the situation related to migration from the nearest countries of Europe. evidence is the current situation in europe , associated with mass migration from the middle east region .
there is a set of measures and a set of structures within the country that professionally, daily are engaged in the prevention of anti-terrorism activities.	in addition , ye . idrissov has assured that the government of kazakhstan , law enforcement agencies , special services work actively to ensure security in the country .	0,87
Chairman of the nuclear and energy control committee of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
only the constitution is the main guarantor of Kazakhstan's development. the constitution has become the main factor of kazakhstan 's success .
The main purpose of the program is to register unemployed, low-income citizens, employees living in rural districts.
for example, speculators will not show here.
formation of an open government: at a meeting on plans and the current situation, the bill "On access to information" was discussed.
Since 2006, the share of graduates of higher educational institutions among the unemployed as a whole has increased from 20.1% (118 thousand people) in 2014 by 28.2% (124 thousand people), in the second quarter of 2015 - by 32.4%. the share of graduates among unemployed increased from 20.1 % in 2006 to 32.4 % in the second quarter of 2015 , " experts of " information-analytical center on employment " jsc say .
Thousands of island countries have a special interest in Kazakhstan, in the field of trade and tourism.
The results of support for representatives of all nationalities of Kazakhstan are known thanks to the establishment of peace and peace in the country. "
A. Zhugunusova noted that the Merey family "is very important and it promotes family values.
this is the result of our negotiations in that Kazakhstan retains 8.5 gross value of agricultural products upon accession to the WTO. our result of the negotiating process - 8.5 % of the gross volume of agricultural production subsidies .
in addition, an exhibition will be organized within the framework of the event, which will present the results of joint research of EMC and the big data laboratory "national information technologies," as well as innovations of the world and Kazakhstan acts market.
All projects currently being implemented will help Kazakhstan and the payback port become the logistical hub of the region and a reliable continuation of all logistical ties. all the projects that are being implemented , should help the port of aktau to become logistics hub of the region and a reliable link in the logistic chain from china to europe , " - he concluded .
As part of the project, new energy-saving windows were purchased and installed, the building's heat supply system was modernized.
First and foremost, both Japanese public authorities and the private sector will continue to support economic reforms in Kazakhstan.
Gorbatenko said that the notary illegally registered movable property and issued contracts fictititiously.
In just 6 months of this year, 31.5 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, which is 104.3% compared to the same period last year.
recently completed certification in parts of the regional command "east."
As of the domestic currency market in June, demand and supply were equal, "said K. Elimbetov.
aa. within the framework of three criteria for the security of the organization (political-military, economic-environmental and humanitarian) ecu and separately. Zanier's activities and ongoing work on the implementation of ecu goals and objectives.	ye.idrissov expressed support for the osce 's activities and personally l.zannier in the three directions of security organizations ( political-military , economic-environmental and human ) .	0,87
we as a community offer a new idea and plan to implement it in the summer.	we , as the association , now put forward a new project that will be implemented in summer .	0,87
Governor of the region got acquainted with the construction of these facilities and was pleased with the progress of work.	akim got acquainted with the construction and was satisfied ,  - the governor 's office reported .
As the head of the metropolitan education department added, this book is not a textbook, it is published as additional literature.
for example, to date, agreements have been concluded for the supply of products with the company "bi group," the association of developers of Kazakhstan, as well as the company "pieces."
The minimum down payment of the deposit under the terms of educational savings deposits to Nurbank JSC is 3 months (5,946 tenge), "the statement said.
According to him, each civil servant must go through the first level in local executive bodies.
According to him, to enter the humanitarian procurement market, it is necessary to go through three stages: registration, confirmation of qualifications and participation in tenders.
The National Museum of Kazakhstan organized the exhibition "History of Kazakh Law," dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that the outpatient clinic in the village of Kyzan is designed for 50 places, it was built at the expense of the republican and local budgets in the amount of 170 million tenge.
we have invisibly shaped human culture and values.
The most important thing is that the company is being modernized and modernized.
Also, 2 education houses for 100 places were commissioned.
In addition, the heads of the Kazavtodor and Kazakhavtodor RGP checked the readiness of equipment and production bases for the coming winter.
however, civil servants have a very large responsibility.
The head of the upper house expressed support for the establishment of inter-parliamentary relations between the two countries and called on the chairman of the legislative assembly of Costa Rica to visit the capital.
The President of Kazakhstan also congratulated the people of Kyrgyzstan and the President of the Kyrgyz Republic on the successful parliamentary elections.
I want to thank you for your warm welcome and excursion. i would like to express my gratitude for welcome .
At the same time, priority should be directed to more effective industrial cooperation, incompatibility in the structure and balance of national industries, as well as an agreed increase in the production of high-level steel products, "said the director of the department.
the theme of the exhibition "energy of the future" is relevant for everyone, and Latvia has a good opportunity to show its achievements in this area.
various assumptions and conflicting views are expressed. different versions are put forward , the opposite opinions are expressed .
The committee of the international conference chose the capital as a platform for discussing the preservation of traditional music, the search for its paths, "said the rector of the Kazakh National University of Arts.
at the same time, the head of state highly appreciated the long-term support of investors for the invaluable contribution of Kazakhstan and the council to improving the country's investment climate.
I want our capital to gather a more world title that suits him.
Therefore, the main direction of the partnership is the fight against cancer, "he said.
the work of Kazakhstani athletes and coaches will increase the authority of Kazakhstan, participating in such significant competitions and through prizes and victories, "said O. Bakharev.
More than 600 students study in the region, including youth from South Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Almaty regions.
It is very pleasant to be involved in this country, because Kazakhstan is a member of the international community.
With regard to technical and vocational education, a Government decision had drawn up a roadmap for the dual education system. as for technical vocational education , the decree of the government approved roadmap of the dual system .
we learn from each other.
A provision will also be established to guide the further development and cooperation of the association.
According to the minister, microfinance organizations will be exempted from taxation for the abolition of problem loans to socially vulnerable people.
in this area, there is an increasing tendency towards cost-cutting aspects. in this industry more attention is paid to those aspects that affect the cost savings that go to the cost of production .
The main issue of negotiations was the simplification of the visa regime between Kazakhstan and the European Union, readmission and other aspects of consular legal cooperation.
traditionally, well-known experts in the field of multimedia journalism are invited as speakers: bloggers, gardeners, public and mbm.
this is a propaganda of the ethnic diversity of our state.	i believe that the strength and the guarantee is in this that unified people of kazakhstan will implement the age-old dream  mangilik el . "
we are very glad that we will perform on the most beautiful and prestigious stage of our country, with beautiful acoustics, with such a language of technology, "say the botagosis and steel Tyunybekovs.
Semeya, Pavlodar, capital, kokshetau, kostanay, aktobe, island, Baikonur, kyzylorda, turkestan, shymkent and taraz.
they learn to work in the conditions brought to combat with personnel; studies the details of the complex tasks of the commander, considered exemplary, oriented for fighters.
after passing the combat tests, they must confirm that the servicemen of the armed forces of Kazakhstan meet the level of combat readiness.	passing of a series of tests of combat , they have to confirm their compliance with the level of combat readiness of the armed forces of kazakhstan ,  the message reads .
representatives of large Ukrainian companies in the field of aircraft industry, mining and mechanical engineering, exploration, agriculture and grain production.
As the Minister of Education and Science noted, in this regard the law provided the state measures of stimulation of commercialization of results of scientific and scientific and technical activity.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the importance of maintaining peace and stability in the country, thanks to which today Kazakhstanis are confidently looking to the future.
M. Mukhamad praised Kazakhstan's achievements in economic, social and foreign policy, noting that he expects to further strengthen the level of relations between the states.
successful entrepreneurship is considered the basis for achieving this goal.
Therefore, we are ready to integrate into agriculture, repair of berths, tourism, transport, industries, "said Rabi Fallah gutter.
we selected the best who know English and have good training. we have selected the best students : english-speaking bachelors with high gpa .
As a result, Kazakhstan's export-oriented economy will certainly develop.
In general, the project is carried out in three stages.
The modular program will teach you to identify and evaluate the competencies of company managers and regional structures, strategic management, business process reengineering, project management, change management, increase leadership capabilities, create and connect teams, create smart maps.
Also, Prince Albert II of Monaco became interested in the construction of sports facilities in Almaty.
his stage companion Evgenia Ivanchenko - one of the princes of the Mariinsky Theater, danced in a large theater for a long time.
the visit confirmed the prospects of deepening Kazakhstan's cooperation with Canadian provinces, which play an important role in Canada's international trade, economic and humanitarian ties.
In addition, the construction of a transport and logistics center with a packaging network of Kazgavproduct LLP was completed on the territory of the industrial park of the capital.
Using our own capabilities in the region, we should receive special recommendations by studying the production of goods, "he said.
Adaulbaev noted the great experience of Great Britain in countering threats in the modern world from the point of view of the further development of relations between the legal systems of Kazakhstan and Great Britain.
The results of the talks between Nursultan Nazarbayev and B. Obama, which discussed the issues of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, countering armed extremism, the situation in Afghanistan and the fight against daish groups in New York, are highly appreciated by the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan.
The forum will allow in the next five years to discuss investment opportunities for enterprises of light industry of Kazakhstan, export of finished products abroad, the report said.
According to the minister, the requirements for the training and recruitment of teachers will be strengthened.
As the chairman noted, talented schoolchildren from all over Kazakhstan get into it.
The capital previously began with a palace of consent and peace.
The implementation of a pilot project on marking fur products with control (compliance) marks was also considered.
At the end of the year, it is planned to complete 51 km.
As part of the successful implementation of the model of family education of the State children's village, a law on children's village and youth home was adopted in 2001.
P. Draganov spoke about the priorities of the regional center: water resources management, countering transnational threats, strengthening capacity in the field of human rights protection and conflict prevention.
The head of the region visited the social and economic facilities of the city of Kokshetau.
According to the results of the event, the President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy Uk and the akim of the Kostanay region gave a number of instructions to the head of Kazavtodor on the timely preparation of roads for winter time.
The leaders of the two countries exchanged views on topical issues of bilateral cooperation and expressed hope for the fruitful results of the upcoming meeting of the joint Kazakh-Ukrainian interstate commission on economic cooperation.
we must do everything possible to preserve this miracle, "said A. Ayymbetov at a meeting with schoolchildren.
During the visit, the Minister met with students, got acquainted with the state and training of domestic athletes who were housed in the "village of Universiade."
So, the Real Estate Fund has created more than 11 thousand new jobs in the area of ​ ​ housing construction in 4000 regions.
the complex was launched as part of an investment project to restore the broiler poultry farm, which covers a herd of cattle, chicks, broilers with full-fledged feed and accepts applications from other organizations.
The main object of the 2017 Universiade will be a hostel for 5,000 seats on 8.9 and 14 floors of the village of athletes, where construction work is also underway on schedule.
The event was attended by well-known public figures, domestic and foreign scientists, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies, representatives of Ansh diplomatic missions.
The Government of Kazakhstan appealed to the international community, first of all, to the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
alternative justice, according to the expert, will increase the level of competition, and state courts will have new opportunities to improve their work.
During the overhaul, contractors installed new tools that will reduce public spending during the heating season.
It is noted that horse milk powder is used in the food, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic industries.
The main topic of the meeting was the assessment of corruption risks, anti-corruption strategy, innovations in criminal and criminal procedure codes related to the work of anti-corruption state bodies, the report said.
In accordance with the order of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 22.05.2015  No. 320 in the Mangistau region, 68 graduates who took part in international Olympiads and scientific projects are exempted from passing UNT.
at the same time, it should be understood that Kyrgyzstan, having signed the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, receives more favorable offers than its other members, "the expert noted.
the second aspect is transport.
holding the exhibition in general and especially its theme "energy of the future." Kerry also praised the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to create a center for the development of green technologies at the UN on the territory of the exhibition.
During the discussion of the bill, a number of proposals were received among the working group, "said a member of the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mukhtar Tinikeev.
accordingly, creative and technical work is underway to reveal the image of persons in the plot, "he said.
The purpose of the event is to allow various social strata of the population to see masterpieces of world art.
priority areas of investment are the development of the city's thermal system, replacing worn-out ones, creating conditions for avoiding losses during the transportation of thermal energy.
these are new ideas, high technologies, the main thing is the quality of products and services.
"- said the Secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the presentation of the book gulshara Abdykalikova.
Of course, there are many other steps, but since I am an energy specialist, I pay my attention to this step, "she said. kirsch.
this direction was created for the convenience of university students.
therefore, firing from this type of weapon requires a high response and attention, as well as confidence, "said the private broke the dugai.
this law is historic because it changed the system of financing health care, made it stable and changed the attitude towards society. this law is historic because it modifies and supplements the system of health care financing , making it stable and change society 's attitude towards their health .
The President of Kazakhstan once again emphasized that the state will not allow a decrease in the social well-being of citizens.
As noted in the report, small businesses are moving from the metropolis to the regions.
the theoretical part of the seminar included issues such as flooding and striking factors; characteristics of floods in the world and Kazakhstan; conditions of river currents, floods and hydrodynamic accidents in the Karaganda region and their forecasting; monitoring of flood protection methods.
And the illegal actions of the light and medium levels are not reflected in the biography of youth, "he said.
For 5-6 years, these projects were well shown.
In our area, great attention is paid to the development of sports and the involvement of young people in a healthy lifestyle. the bodies pay great attention to the development of sport and to attract young people to a healthy lifestyle .
now money can be legalized in two ways.
cooperation between the two countries has always been at a high level.
we know our departments, representatives of the committee issue a lot of legal acts.
it is pleasant that this conference is taking place in the capital of comprehensively developing Kazakhstan. it is symbolic that the conference is held in astana , the symbol of a dynamic and comprehensive development of kazakhstan .
Also, the heads of ministries discussed the activities of regional centers for adaptation and integration of oralmans.
his sons taught, tasbolat, rizabek and daughter overtook the glass paternal path and chose the profession of teacher.
The adoption of the law does not provide for additional appropriations from the republican budget.
In recent years, there has been a decrease in maternal and infant mortality, in orphanages up to three years old in the health system, thousands and a half thousand children are waiting for their mothers. over the past years , there is a tendency to reduce maternal and child mortality , but in the children 's homes there are still many children without parents .
The head of state noted the need to develop preventive measures based on careful monitoring of processes in foreign markets, assessing the change in the situation, possible risks and risks, as well as forecasting the development of events.
Earlier, the head of the Eurasian department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Uzbekistan said that Shambu Kumaran is interested in expanding his country's cooperation with Shu countries in the field of security.
profit for the population - solving the issue of employment, dividends and quality services.	under the  top 65 , " it is planned to attract international consultants to assess and support the transaction on the objects of privatization .
Also, according to the President of the Biathlon Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, from August 23 to 27, 2015, the summer biathlon championship of Kazakhstan will be held in the city of Chuch Akmola.
previously, the surveillance system worked only in Kazakhstan, and parcels located abroad had to be searched through the system of postal services of another country. previously , tracking service was available within the territory of kazakhstan , and in order to track the parcel abroad , it was necessary to monitor the system via foreign services .
new technologies are also being introduced and new equipment is being purchased.
As a result, the total volume of nmg and emg production amounted to 4,107 thousand tons (167 thousand barrels per day), which is 2% more than in the same period of 2014.
It is worth noting that the main feature of the meeting was the consolidated work on the development of joint solutions for the development and improvement of the quality of infrastructure.
After the meeting, the deputy of the district maslikhat visited the fattening site, where the construction of oil is underway.
citizens themselves should take the judicial process seriously. the citizens have to take the lawsuits seriously .
the main problem is the preparation of a modern textbook on political science. there were no modern textbooks on political science for high school .
This year, a fitness center with a swimming pool is being built.
he also noted that along with the dynamic development of the oil, gas and coal industries, Kazakhstan pays attention to the development and use of alternative energy sources.
according to him, it is impossible to transfer the work plan of one state directly to another state.
thus, geographical and selector coverage of entrepreneurship is carried out.
as well as the current akordapress content accordingly goes into operation in Russian.
the parties agreed on the existence of prospects for cooperation in the field of information technology, energy, agriculture and other areas.
This work will be carried out in connection with the work carried out in Kazakhstan and thanks to the state support of domestic producers and the Eurasian Group LLP.
According to him, more than 8 million or 90.6% of all persons took part in the referendum, more than 7 million or 89.14% supported the draft Kazakh constitution.
Kazakhstan and the Benelux States (Kingdom of Belgium, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Kingdom of the Netherlands) at a meeting of the chamber of the readmission agreement and its accompanying protocol, agreement with Latvia on readmission of persons, the second protocol amending the Agreement on preferential conditions for the supply of special equipment and special equipment for equipping law enforcement agencies and special services of the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization of October 6, 2007, and a loan agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (a project to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises).
This year, amendments to the Code "On the Health of the People and the Health System" were signed at the board with the participation of the head of state.
here we can talk about professional literacy, and such issues as paternal law.
So, on social networks from popular Facebook to what's app, more than 2 million people watched a statement by terrorists about calling for armed jihad in 24 hours. just imagine that only one publication calling for armed jihad placed by terrorists in popular social networks from facebook to whatsapp , is watched by over two million people in one day .
This year, the number of graduates of the Eurasian National University amounted to 4,573 people.	according to the report , this year the number of graduates of the eurasian national university amounted to 4 573 people .	0,87
Vice Minister of Energy reported on changes in legislation.	vice-minister of energy spoke about the upcoming changes in the legislation .	0,87
u.rusnak energy of the future. "
foreign managers will not be invited to the civil service, they will work in accordance with labor legislation under the contract, "he said. akhmetzhanov.
Fr. Borit stressed that the expulsion of the special representative of the president of the country testifies to the impartiality of Kazakhstan's intentions and assured that this letter will be promptly communicated to the country's leadership.
they tried their hand by pulling ropes, showed speed and agility in games of jumping with a bag, running with blows, etc.
In recent years, khkdb has been one of the active leaders of Kazakhstan in the field of international credit relations.
Reports of the Ad.Daulbaev, Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption were heard.
this is an important event in which we expect the conclusion of agreements in the field of university and research cooperation, as well as the conclusion of several important business contracts, "said F. Etienne.
in addition, the company has prepared a promising schedule for the placement of service facilities.
grant holders will be granted 1 million 764 thousand tenge.
at the airfields of the cities of Syzran and Lipetsk.
The Majilis Speaker expressed confidence that this will be a large-scale project, having all the opportunities that make up the main part of the new world economic construction.
According to statistics, in 2014 the number of Kazakh tourists increased to 40%.
among the winners are high school students, they will be provided with educational grants, "said Svetlana Ispusinova, deputy chairman of the board of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School aku.
The event was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, diplomats of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Finland, heads of the Civil Aviation Academy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the patria pilot school.
zka played in a sports club, now he has switched to "will."
The peculiarity of the exhibition is that the museum of the first president of Kazakhstan presents a collection of public awards. the exhibition is interesting because for the first time the museum of the first president shows its collection of public awards of nazarbayev .
in the near future, all sections of the epic film will be shown on Chinese television.
at the same time, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will take the necessary measures for the development of the trade sector in the business environment of the two countries.
the parties expressed confidence that the signing of the agreement will give a new impetus to the strengthening and development of friendly relations between the peoples of the two states.
The head of the region instructed the general contractor to complete construction work on time without compromising quality.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, we, together with the Baiterek holding, began the construction of this glass factory. the construction was started about 2 months ago , now there about 100 workers and 20 units of special equipment work .
in the center of Europe - promoting the values ​ ​ of the Kazakh people in Switzerland, familiarizing themselves with their culture, history, language, a great job for the good of the country and is a great priority.
According to R. Mukashev, the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Councils" increases the role of public councils at state bodies and akimats.
The President named investors who contribute to agricultural production in Kazakhstan.
the pilot is tested according to several sets of factors required by him: high moral, power and psychological qualities, discipline, training in all safety measures and the ability to observe it.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that this school differs from others, where students study in Kazakh and Agyn languages.
With the objective of supporting domestic producers, effective support tools have been developed for producers in accordance with international standards.
Summing up the results of the meeting, B. Saparbayev noted the broad prospects for the development of entrepreneurship and an attractive business climate.
a report was also made by the Secretary of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Harmony.
Recall that the deadline for accepting applications for renegotiation of deposits has been extended from October 1 to December 1.
First, we are expanding the list of countries that interact with the visa-free regime, as well as extending this regime with visa-free countries, "said W.W.
Bhutan was interested in activities as a recognized platform for dialogue between the countries of the region.
ensuring the rights and freedoms of minors is the main social task of our country. "
As part of the decade, in all regions of the country, primary health care organizations will host open days in which they advise therapists, general practitioners, pediatricians on the prevention of acute intestinal infections, the report said.
It is noted that today Kazakhstan has signed such agreements with 14 states, negotiations are underway with another 28 states.
it depends on low oil prices, "he said.
Recall that silicon valley is the largest innovation center in the world.
the document was developed by order of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council.
According to Romanov data, to date, only 0.43% of the economically active population of Kazakhstan applies to the consumer protection society.
According to him, most of the investments are supposed to be directed to the agricultural industry.
15-25 tons of poultry meat per shift.
Another step is to increase the responsibility of local authorities in this direction, "he added.
According to the head of state, the council can become the author of the idea of ​ ​ the spiritual revival of mankind of the 21st century.
Last year, mutual trade reached $1.3 billion and doubled compared to 2013.
Today, China is very successfully developing carbon production, so we will use the most modern technologies in Kazakhstan. today 's modern coal chemical industry is very successfully developing in chins , so we will use the most advanced technologies for coal processing in kazakhstan , in order to contribute to the economic development of the country .
Of course, only developed states in all respects are engaged in space flights. over 55 years of flights , the orbit was visited by over 500 people .
The head of state has thoughts about time and himself.
According to the amendments to the legislation, since 2018, if there are appropriate grounds (family income is 50% lower than the subsistence minimum and when a social contract is concluded by able-bodied family members), each child is given a mouth.
Singapore has been leading the international doing business ranking for the tenth year in a row.
The event was attended by Deputy Head of Internal Policy Department of Akmola region Karimova, Doctor of Historical Sciences of KSU named after Sr. Valikhanova, professor of abuyev, journalist - writer, cultural figure of the Republic of Kazakhstan tolegul, public figures, writers, specialists in the field of culture, education, students and students of secondary schools.
also at the meeting, special attention was paid to the measures taken by Kazakhstan to ensure sustainable development in the current economic situation.
In order to improve the skill of athletes, all the necessary conditions have been created.
In addition, at present, it is important to train women citizens in technical specialties and actively participate in the Nұr Zhol program, the Secretary of State said.
To participate in the scientific meeting at the Friendship House, the center brought together the best specialists in the field of demography, specialists in history, political science, sociology of Kazakhstan, Russia, Poland and the Czech Republic.
Kazakhstan fulfils all its social guarantees and social security obligations. there are social benefits in the form of targeted social assistance and state child allowances , with children under 18 years old .
Shu defines the same partnership, the strategic objective of which is to strengthen security and promote integration challenges. sco shows an example of equal partnership , the strategic aim of which is to enhance security and promote the integration process .
The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, who are working closely with Astana Eskpo 2017.
our partnership is not limited and is not limited to formal documents, "said S. Sobyanina. our cooperation has never been limited .
we took part when Kazakhstan athletes had great chances.
we participated in the first forum and could not say exactly how the forum would be held then.
the third stage is "sports."
The event was attended by representatives of ethnocultural associations, districts, non-governmental organizations, youth public associations, as well as employees of state institutions and the public sector.
initially, the qualifying stages were held in the regions, at today's republican tournament they compete among themselves to become the best, "said a. Sabitov.
According to B. Kaipova, in the highest legislative body of the country it should be noted that the presentation of deputies of the assembly and kha is the beginning of many initiatives that are supported by Kazakh society.
Kazneftegaz JSC. according to Kassykov, the stages of "preparation and mobilization" of the company's transformation have been completed, a special group has been formed, an organizational management structure has been formed, a roadmap for the transformation of Kazneftegas - processing-marketing has been approved.
According to the press service of the institute, the purpose of the new project is to promote wide coverage and dissemination of reforms in the country and the formation of a feedback mechanism with experts.
Therefore, the lifting of sanctions by the international community against Iran provides new opportunities for the development of the economies of Central Asia, in particular diversification, "said M. Sidyknazarov.
The cost of the agreement is 1 billion 100 million rubles and corresponds to the approved price.
according to some calculations, with the use of these technologies, Kazakhstan in the medium term can increase grain production by 2 times, "he said.
the main theme of the summit will be cooperation in the field of information.
that is, we must adapt the surges to this situation.
According to him, many forget to talk about the constitutional dependence of the country's economy.
in the preparation of this draft, we drew attention to such issues as fair and clear decision-making by judges and real decision-making, since the status of judges carries only such qualities.
The traditional music of the Kazakh people "Eternal Tar" was opened in symphonic performance.
Recall that an individual entrepreneur with a strong gendaulet by solving the issue of lack of collateral under the guarantees of the development fund, the People's Bank of Kazakhstan "issued a loan to complete the construction of the facility.
In 2015, we strengthened the stage, "explained Major James, the organizer of the exercises.	according to the organizers , last year kazakhstan brought the bronze medals .	0,88
in particular, it is now possible to apply to public service centers for the adoption/withdrawal of tax reporting, the issuance of a patent to individual entrepreneurs, the appointment of benefits to guardians or guardians for the maintenance of orphans and children left without parental care, the issuance of invitations to enter the Republic of Kazakhstan for personal affairs, etc.	the ministry of investment and development of kazakhstan reports , now in the public service centers you can apply for reception / withdrawal of tax reporting , individual entrepreneurs can receive patent grant , the named guardian can apply for the payment of benefit , process the invitations on entry into the republic of kazakhstan on personal matters , etc .	0,88
During the meeting with the President of "Rtzh" Oleg Belozerov, the heads of the railway administrations of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation considered issues of further development of mutually beneficial partnership.
Persons who have reached retirement age (58-63/63), as well as persons with disabilities of groups i and ii whose disability is established indefinitely, subject to the opening of a conditional pension account and the transfer of contributions for at least 60 months to the name of the right to pension payments from the budget.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan met with guests, familiarized the German side with the main provisions of the national plan "100 concrete steps," the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," and also noted the importance of fruitful implementation of the agreements on the introduction of the German dual education system in Kazakhstan during the visit of the head of state to Berlin in 2012.
The press conference will be attended by the chief freelance endocrinologist of Astana, the national coordinator for insulin tomatoes Gulmir Abduakhasova, the endocrinologist of the national medical center naylya toktarov, the children's endocrinologist of the national center of motherhood and childhood guljan amantai and the executive director of the public foundation "Fund for promoting diabetes of Kazakhstan" Natalya Tukalevskaya.
our area is proud of its agricultural industry.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO was a historically important event. accession to the wto has great , great historical significance .
for this, a mobile base was created, where registration is considered the first step of the "mobile government."
however, the soreness of the population has overcome this danger.
So, a student of Karaganda State Medical University noted that the plan of the nation with a.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the traditional prize "Hope for Cheese" is awarded for the outstanding hopes of the country aged 14 to 29 years.
In 2014, at the Asian Games, she took 6th place.
I think that this center we understand mediation as public consent, ethnic relations, intransigence to conflict.	it has been adopted by government bodies such as the courts , including the supreme court , general prosecutor 's office , the ministry of justice of kazakhstan .	0,88
According to the latest data of June, the gold and foreign exchange reserves of the National Bank amounted to 28, 891 billion US dollars.
we must now hire him and develop a review schedule within a few days.
This year, more than 90 engineering and pedagogical specialists will increase their qualifications in new technologies.
today we are creating conditions for the operation of domestic tour operators through internal pipelines.
stepping into the front box, military personnel demonstrate their nationalism, a sense of pride in the Kazakh army, "said the commander.
Compared to the beginning of 2015, the number of residents of the capital increased by 9 thousand 89 people, including in the Almaty region - by 1 thousand 2 people, in the Ishim district - by 4 thousand 621 people, in the saryark district - by 3 thousand 463 people.
as a result, equipment productivity has increased and environmental performance has improved.
Representatives of the French diplomatic mission received information about business opportunities in the Mangistau and oil and gas sectors, about geo-processing, mechanical engineering, alternative energy, and the work of the agro-industrial complex.
During the seminar, international experts and representatives of the education system highly appreciated Kazakhstan's introduction of innovative ways of training specialists in the system of technical and vocational education and the positive dynamics of the development of the system.
Policy of the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev. president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev is an example of true religious , quranic , motivated responsibility in his policy .
a new approach and closer interaction among countries are indispensable for regional stability and security.
The security system violated international requirements, the international measure of placement of low-enriched uranium belonging to the magate did not require any changes and improvements.
participants of the meeting exchanged views on the state and prospects of Kazakh-American cooperation in the field of combating crime and drugs, and also discussed the conclusion of bilateral international treaties.
3 thousand 322 people were arrested for committing such crimes.
the tripartite system dealt with in the national plan was dealt with by the Public Service Agency. the three-step system , which is included in the national plan , will be discussed at the agency for public service .
In the future, participants will contribute to becoming the reality of what they have done, "the city's culture department said.
The head of the region approved the project scheme and instructed to allocate the necessary funds for the construction of the facility.
Strengthening and expanding cooperation with the People's Republic of China is one of the main strategic priorities of Kazakhstan.
If you look through the eyes of business, then this is a great test and very fierce competition. from the point of view of businessmen - it is a big challenge and competition .
reviewed all areas of cooperation.
For several years, the project was supervised by a state prize winner, a famous fencing master.
I think the next step will be the practical implementation of these issues, "said Rear Admiral Gendarbek Zhanzakov, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
There are more than 400 different republican associations that deal with children's issues. "
808 bachelor's degrees were awarded with honors, 186 of them were received by graduates of the Faculty of Economics.
To increase the productivity of existing enterprises, a system is needed that provides savings in production, elements of robotization, automation, modernization of technological lines, and the introduction of these indicators means a reduction in jobs. in order to increase the productivity of existing enterprises, we need to develop a system of production , elements of robotics , automation and modernization of production lines , and the introduction of this system means jobs to be cut .
its single executor is "Kazakhstan engineering."
At the end of the event, the metropolitan declaration of the participants of the fifth congress will be adopted.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the draft industrialization map will be implemented in 6 branches of processing: metallurgy, chemistry, petrochemistry, mechanical engineering, construction industry and food production.
special services and law enforcement agencies should ensure security and the rule of law.
starting from this site will be 500 m in calculation.
Kazakhstan has been participating in the ranking since its opening.
This combat module is designed for remote firing and control in all weather conditions, as well as at night and during the day.
we are confident that, relying on the teaching of Buddhism, it is necessary to ensure strong moral principles, eliminate all conflicts and live in peace, "concluded F.Taiyari.
Kazakhstanis, continuing the glorious military traditions of fathers, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers who served in the armed forces, as well as participated in the Great Patriotic War, were able to learn about the history of the families of military personnel who currently serve in the Kazakh army, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mukhtar.
The meeting discussed the main aspects of further implementation of joint projects in the field of geological exploration.
in his speech K. Massimov said: In Strategy-2050, Nazarbayev instructed to develop a "green" economy and increase energy consumption from alternative sources to 50% by 2050.
Such important issues as the renewal of the public service, international experience in implementing state reforms, improving technologies and methods of training civil servants, the role of the Eida in the development of innovations in this area were also touched upon.
During the implementation of the projects in 2009-2014, traffic was opened from the border of the Russian Federation to the city of Shymkent for 1,884 km through Aktobe, Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan. during the period 2009-2014 car traffic from border of russia to shymkent 1884 km length through aktobe , kyzylorda and south kazakhstan regions was opened .
this is 92.7% of the cost of memoranda, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Mangistau Region.
In addition, he noted that the competition is organized at a very high level, "I think that this competition will have a good effect on our youth, on young families, will teach to appreciate the family."
a little joy, a little support for them big life, on June 4 we go to boarding school.
The Golden Collegium brought the genre of esmukans, the influence of the Thomasovich on swimming, nina rulaeva, pavel stefanyuk on athletics, vadim dukart on powerlifting.
In addition, today in all regions of Kazakhstan, 1258 people will receive party tickets of a new type, today there are more than 860 thousand members in the party.
currently 559 young men are military institutes of the ground forces, 370 are military engineering institutes of radio electronics and communications and 185 are twice heroes of the Soviet Union. passes the selection for admission to the military instinct of the Bigeldin Air Defense Forces.
It should be noted that on Education Day the republican action "School textbook" will be completed.
Kazakh citizens need to explain the use of energy efficiency technologies, "said A. Solovieva.
In turn, this will contribute to explaining to representatives of various religions and beliefs that all problems are common, "said somaya samir shantila.
As the deputy noted, recently Secretary of State Abdikalikova paid an official visit to Tokyo.
the woman is saved by the baby.
the telegram also notes the friendly nature of relations between Kazakhstan and Spain.
If the competent authorities cannot understand the situation, they do not have the necessary experts, then foreigners should have called them and handed them this case, "the head of state said.
I want to thank our Russian partners, foreign participants and Russian leaders who took part in the expedition. i would like to express gratitude to russian partners and leaders , and also foreign participants .
It is very interesting to work with a dog, instructors say.
Recall that this event, together with the German Ministry of Economy and Energy and the German Energy Agency, implements the representation of the German economy in Central Asia.
It is worth noting that the pipe production network is fully automated.
Kazakhstan contributed to the settlement of the Syrian crisis by providing a platform for Syrian negotiations from May 25 to 27 this year. kazakhstan has contributed to the settlement of the syrian crisis , having provided a platform for syrian talks from 25 to 27 may 2015 .
Next week, as part of the visit of the head of state, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan plans to sign an agreement with the British on legal assistance. next week , within the visit of the head of state , the prosecutor general of kazakhstan will sign an agreement on legal assistance with england .
most of these crimes, as a rule, are of great importance in land relations, the distribution of housing, the distribution of small and medium-sized loans, "he said.
we have everything for this, "said Colonel Zhumabek Hasenov, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Educational and Socio-Legal Work
thus, the modern highly efficient resort complex - the sanatorium "Kazakhstan" - will provide wide opportunities to satisfy the needs of citizens in rehabilitation and rehabilitation programs.
Speaking at the conference, B.Sagintayev noted that over the past ten years Kazakhstan has developed a legal framework for the settlement of the water issue, adopted a state program for water resources management and measures are being taken to save the island.
Participants of the action were awarded the Department of Tourism, the Department of Culture and Sports of Astana, valuable gifts of the Mayor's Office of Astana.
Note that school gymnasium No. 81 "astana English school" has an area of ​ ​ 11765.60 square meters, a total of 54 classes, of which 2 are multimedia classes, there is a celebration hall, libraries and workshops.
The potato harvest this year amounted to 20,284 tons, which is 206.8% more than the same period last year.
The head of state also congratulated everyone on their participation in the meeting.
As part of this relay race, we invited many ethnic groups to contribute to strengthening Kazakhstan's unity, which will last until December, "he said.
Together with representatives of the military railway guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an operational group was created to monitor the correctness of goods transported.
entities included in the tariff plan, and as a result of other measures, such as savings, the introduction of new technologies, were given the opportunity to decide the fate of failed costs, "said the chairman of the committee on the regulation of natural monopolies and the protection of competition of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan during the seminar.
In addition, during the meeting, the goal of ensuring the confidentiality of arbitration was announced, for the disclosure of information in the arbitration process, arbitrators and parties establish administrative liability.
within the framework of the month, special attention is paid to preventive measures, screening studies, providing children with hepatitis vaccination and informing the population about viral hepatitis.
the number of active small and medium-sized businesses increased by 12.4% and amounted to 91.1 thousand units.
thousands of square meters of housing are rented annually.
it is also planned to exchange views on the main international issues on the agenda of Nursultan Nazarbayev and Petro Poroshenko, including on the implementation of the Minsk agreements.
The job fair was attended by 196 people, including 117 men and 79 women.
In addition, an agricultural fair was organized here.
and along the "red corridor" there are patients who feel bad and need the help of a specialist who immediately get on the reception and control filter, "the head doctor explained.
The deputy noted that international experts note the contribution to strengthening interfaith harmony, since the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is held on the topic "Dialogue of Leaders of Religions and Politicians in the Name of Peace and Unity."
however, its main goal is to promptly inform entrepreneurs about the goods in demand.
we have no restrictions if the children are talented, they all go to study abroad, "he said.
Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan Baibek noted the important role of business in the socio-economic development of the metropolis and expressed gratitude for their active position in the construction of socially significant facilities.
In addition, B. Saparbayev examined the repair of the drama theater building, the construction of the Walk of Glory, the improvement of the mausoleum of the Karakhan Baba, which is carried out by the Kyzylorda and Kostanay regions.
In the course of familiarization with this complex, the Governor of the region noted that the project is the most popular for agriculture in the region and noted the need to draw attention to the improvement of the region.
The head of Costa Rican diplomacy noted that the initiatives of President Nazarbayev in the field of creating a nuclear-free world, global reduction of military spending, ensuring the rule of international law and strengthening mechanisms of multilateral cooperation coincide with the priorities of foreign policy pursued by the leadership of Costa Rica.
For the delegates of the forum on November 8, 2015 at Kyzylorda College of Humanities named after M. Mametova, a sectional work was organized on the topic "New approaches to work with young people in the category of neets" and "Use of advanced approaches in the development of services of youth organizations."
today an eternal country is a country of a united future. "
The population of this region exceeds 1.5 billion people, which is about a quarter of the number of people on earth, "said B. Sagintayev.
the second important point, according to the expert, the President of Kazakhstan presented Kazakhstan as a stable and economically attractive country with developed institutions for investors.
It is worth noting that the country is creating favorable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. "
and competition is heating us, "said A. Eshmuratov.
Approaches to the order of interaction between the EAEU states and the Eurasian Economic Commission on issues of international trade disputes with a third party were discussed and generally approved.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the corporation has rich experience in other sectors except the raw materials sector.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, in such conditions Kazakhstan had three choices and the transition to inflation targeting is the most correct.
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the Committee on Physical Culture and Sports of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Elsiyar Kanagats, the President of the National Paralympic Committee of Kazakhstan Kairat Boranbayev, the manager of the powerlifting of the Intergalactic Paralympic Committee of the Moreno, the Iranian eno athlete SiAmand Rahman and and the Kazakh sportSw.
The film was also recognized as the best in its nomination and awarded the Grand Award.
At the end of the training seminar, all participants were presented with registered certificates separately.
As the expert noted, diamonds should become Tursit Mecca, like Turkestan, sitting and Sauran cities.
this style is also popular in the army.
Note that the call center receives calls from patients from different regions of the country.
both countries are agro-industrial countries, thanks to which our capabilities are much higher.
small and medium-sized businesses contribute greatly to the growth economy.
He also held talks with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the country Khaled and Mohammed al-Attiyi.
As noted by the President of the Mothers' Council, the mothers' council is a key element in raising children and supporting family values.
Chagan wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, happiness and success in his responsible activities, and also expressed readiness for further prosperity of the Kazakh people on the basis of the program "Nұrly Zhol."
d.zarlykhanov, having become the champion of Asia, fulfilled the standard of the master of sports of the international class and with his victory contributed to replenishment of medal portfolio of the national team of Kazakhstan.
Main goal of an action - strengthening of fundamental laws of the state, traditions of respect of the national idea "The m g_l_k ate".
According to the jury, the film about Kazakhstan, shot with the direct participation of Astana Escpo-2017 and Uk, was able to fully convey to the audience its goal - to represent the country as a whole and invite it to the exhibition, which will be held in 2017.
Also, as part of the law "On Amending and Supplementing Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Fundamentally Improving the Conditions for Entrepreneurial Activity" adopted at the end of last year, about 11% of permits or 42 permits were reduced.
therefore, it is necessary to simplify all administrative processes as much as possible.
Eduards distinguished themselves by the hard work of the ancestors of the Frantsevich, awarded the title "labor red banner," "badge of honor," "sign of labor."
then creditors and another opportunity for the further functioning of the enterprise will be collected, "said E. Dossaev.
foreign investment, including in small and medium-sized businesses.
as part of the first direction of the program, on November 1 of this year, work was completed at 8 facilities (city children's hospital No. 1, city polyclinic No. 2, 3 and No. 9, school-gymnasium No. 10, secondary school No. 40, educational and practical center of family medicine "sponsorship," located on Independence Avenue, km. "Center for social adaptation for persons without a fixed place of residence" of Astana Mayor's Office) Major repairs of the department of general practitioners of the city polyclinic No. 3, in the educational and practical center of family medicine "Demeu," located on ave. Abylai Khan, ongoing repairs are underway, 144 people are employed at the facilities, of which 72 are in the direction of the employment center.
aibalt-2015 operational-tactical exercise - a large-scale survey of the combat readiness of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We pay special attention to the development of agriculture. we pay special attention to the agricultural sector .
in apartments, public and office buildings.
this register includes not only companies in the field of metallurgy, mechanical engineering, cable products, but also service enterprises engaged in finishing work.
we must mobilize a reserve somewhere, spend all the funds and large promising projects, "the vice minister continued.
He shared his opinion on the new Kazakhstan project.
The competition was attended by 7 teams consisting of 5 people.
50 of them are large enterprises that consume 30-40% of all energy consumed by the state.
the domestic pavilion was awarded the award in the nomination "the best opening of the theme and content."
In general, competitions are aimed at identifying the quality and promoting a healthy lifestyle and the development of mass sports among the population, "the report said.
Such meetings were held with the administration of metropolitan orphanages, citizens, candidates for teachers.
Employees working in all post offices in the country, including in rural areas, Abdi catalogs, schoolchildren and students, employees of educational institutions and offices, can apply for stationery.
The President of Kazakhstan has repeatedly emphasized the consolidation of management in national companies by increasing prices for basic services and assets.
According to him, due to a decrease in demand from China, demand for iron ores decreased.
Askar Zhumagaliyev spoke in detail about the updated development strategy of the national nuclear company, the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium and called for further development of cooperation in the field of peaceful use of nuclear energy.
It is worth noting that the UK is the 48th country that has confirmed its participation in EXPO-2017.
The small and medium business sector of Mangistau region is dynamically developing. i see a positive dynamics in the development of small and medium-sized businesses in mangystau region .
This week, events dedicated to the Green Bridge program will be held in the capital.
During this time, strong political solidarity was achieved to dynamically strengthen bilateral ties in a wide range of areas of cooperation, "said the chairman of the supreme court before the meeting.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Adrian Yelesov with a welcoming speech opened a festive evening dedicated to the Day of the capital, told the participants of the event about the capital of Kazakhstan and the upcoming exhibition EXPO-2017, which is of great importance for our country.
in our interview, he spoke about the guarantees of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan related to the rights of the child.
the new Kazakhstan unity will be formed on the basis of the principle of evolution. the assembly was created to align the interethnic relations in our country .
also organize touring concerts, festivals, competitions, conferences, seminars and exhibitions between cultural institutions of Mangistau and Pavlodar regions.
today we are faced with attempts at abduction to promote terrorism through the Internet, to involve citizens in the war.
I am sure that the implementation of the proposed changes will contribute to the formation of a high-quality, new institutional environment and will make Kazakhstan even more attractive for investment, "the head of state said.
As one of the founders of this university, we, together with the university of international business, are interested in acquiring a part or a full stake, "said a.nurpeisov.
The national bank establishes the priority right of the state to conclude transactions on the acquisition of refined gold to replenish the assets of precious metals, with the subjects of production of precious metals and the persons whose owners they became as a result of processing, "said Nikolai Kuzmin, member of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Majilis of Parliament.
Earlier, the athlete of the baikonurteam team Andrei Kashechkin announced his desire to develop tourism in Kazakhstan.
Deputy Chairman of the Board of Faith Kobalia will oversee issues of popularization of the exhibition among the public, attracting international participants and tourists, commercialization and sponsorship, content and use of objects after the exhibition.
M. Rutte congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and conveyed his heartfelt wishes to the people of Kazakhstan in connection with the 17th anniversary of the capital.
there are not many countries in the world whose population knows bilingualism.
imports are growing and the trade balance of our country is decreasing.
the need for many such companies.
In turn, Khaled expressed hope for further strengthening of bilateral cooperation.
According to the Minister, in the category of projects implemented in the regions, the priority will be the development of petrochemical and agricultural engineering, chemical industries.
It should be noted that music that adds tradition is of great importance: it is philosophy, oval art, dance and condition.
During this time, we constantly coordinated our attitude to general issues and resolved topical issues of bilateral relations at various platforms.
The winners of the Best Dastan contest, in which 35 works are presented, are also determined.
wipon allows you to receive operational information and regulate your actions over time, "he said.
A distinctive feature of the new system is the automation of processes related to the selection of subjects and the appointment of inspections.
this is a very important issue, since financial control bodies, as a rule, detect violations after procurement work, then it will be late, "said the deputy minister.
the emergence of a multipolar world, global challenges and threats, and the growing interdependence of countries and regions now form a new agenda. the global challenges and threats , the growing interdependence of countries and regions form a new agenda .
The regional coordinator, highly appreciating the activities of the Kazakh prosecutor's office in the implementation of the state's international legal policy, expressed interest in continuing issues of interested cooperation related to common strategic tasks to ensure the rule of law and regional security.
Of course, this will contribute to the popularization of this sport, "the akim of the region said.
One of the strongest types of state support is memoranda and long-term agreements. one of the best state measures - memorandas and long-term contracts .
in particular, an Asian infrastructure development bank was created, one of the founders of which is the republic.
The specialized complex "Western Stamp of Lamb" is located in the Akzhay district of the West Kazakhstan region.
each of these projects has its own level of implementation.
King Abdullah II of Jordan addressed the meeting.
The release deal attracted more than 300 investors, and the book of applications amounted to about 10 billion US dollars.
It is noted that the parties noted an increase in bilateral trade and economic turnover.
thus, a commitment to the green direction involves minimizing the consumption of renewable energy sources, a commitment to save energy.
Participants unanimously noted the need for further deepening cooperation in the agro-industrial complex, fuel and energy sector, logistics, industry, tourism, culture.
According to the head of the city department of education L. Orazbaeva, currently in the city of aktobe there are 49 state kindergartens, 33 private kindergartens, in the 21 mini-center at the school 20700 children are brought up.
The publication is dedicated to middle and high school students, parents, teachers, as well as all readers interested in the modern history of Kazakhstan.
I once again thank all the family members who participated in this competition, "said Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov.
The main goal of the program is to register unemployed, low-income citizens, employees living in rural districts, "he said.
today we have considered a number of issues related to the establishment of joint ventures. the important meeting has been held today , during which we discussed a number of issues on creation of joint ventures .
Kazakhstan welcomes the comprehensive joint action plan on the Iranian nuclear program achieved in Vienna between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the six international negotiators. "
this involves the inclusion in the budget program of the costs necessary for the implementation of the strategic task. it is intended to include the budgetary spending program aimed at achieving of a strategic objective .
the influx of the Russian economy more than doubled.
Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Albert Rau and Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Industrial Development and Industrial Safety of Kazakhstan Timur Nurashev will take part in the press conference.
To date, you can get information about the status of @ kazpostbot parcels, exchange rates and fines for violating traffic rules.
On the principle of exposure, a highway and railway tracks will be built, bridges oriented from the capital to the regions will be connected to electric networks, in addition, schools, hospitals, housing and communal services facilities and residential buildings will be built, "said K. Zhakpov.
we have a stable economic situation, the effect of rising prices, for which we need to prepare, and the state provides targeted assistance, support, the production basket is recalculated, "said A. Soloviev.
they found their second homes in this country. kazakhstan is the second home for poles .
East Kazakhstan region is a region with constant rates of development.
In order to implement the large family-state project, work is underway with MSM RK to join the institute of kha and civil society.
in his opinion, the report of the head of state was very interesting and understandable, as it covered new starts.
This has become an additional resource for detecting violence in a children's institution, "he said.
qualification developed by Kazakhstani specialists, shown to international experts, approved by South Korea. competencies were developed by kazakhstani specialists and presented to international experts .
more than 500 ancient books in Arabic, Persian and Turkic have been preserved in museum funds.
The first stage of the competition will end on August 25 and online voting will begin, which will last until September 31.
According to the report of the 1st of 15.07.2015 on the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 2.9 billion tenge.
retail sales of non-food products increased by 2.9% compared to the corresponding period last year, food products increased by 2.3%.
number of small and medium-sized businesses in the region 100.9 thousand
in general, a low-enriched uranium bank was of interest to members of terrorism. in general , we must admit that low enriched uranium bank is not the most attractive source for terrorists .
in addition, one of the main issues that should be kept in the spotlight after joining the WTO is the effective influence on the process of globalization at the global level, while the idea of ​ ​ the President of Kazakhstan g-global will play an important role.
More than 10 thousand specially grown karasor plants were destroyed, 2 thousand 272 kopecks of poppy vegetation were destroyed.
In his report, the President of ktz express ak sanzhar yelubayev noted the prospects and plans of the Kazakh-Lithuanian partnership caused by the implementation of the nұrly zhol program, the company's projects for the development of transport and logistics infrastructure in Kazakhstan.
It is also proposed to actively develop forms of cooperation aimed at expanding the legal framework, providing legal assistance in criminal cases, and implementing ideas provided for by bilateral treaties.
the area of ​ ​ all crops increased by 5.7 thousand hectares and amounted to 926.8 thousand hectares, "the report said.
Also, as zhanguzarov noted, investors interested in the regions of Kazakhstan are chosen.
In addition to subsidies, the program provides for subsidizing the costs of financial recovery, reducing the interest rate on loans and leasing, guaranteeing debt and insurance in crop production and animal husbandry.
During the forum, memorandums of understanding were signed between the Ministry of Education and Science and the krivet, as well as between white and rgao curves.
German deputies announced their plans to visit Kazakhstan next spring.
We want coordinated, systematic work to combat corruption in Astana.
the spiritual qualities of the Islamic religion, calling for peace, tranquillity, mercy and empathy, are manifested in this Ramadan.
During the conversation with the head of the Italian state, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the high level of dynamics of the development of bilateral relations in the field of politics, economy, culture and education and said that the high-level agreements on strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Italy contribute to this.
We have a lot of clients.
all road maintenance equipment intended for winter care of roads, repair work of production complexes for storing equipment, preparation of anti-icing materials and a fund of fuel and lubricants should be under the personal control of the first heads of regional branches, "said Ulan Alipov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor JSC.
The market of this zone for our products can be estimated at 100,000,000 rubles. the region is considered as a promising market potential can be estimated at 100,000,000 rubles a year on our products .
The Ministry, together with the akimats, began work on informing young people within the framework of social networks.
In the first half of 2015, 41.2 thousand clients were served in the business service centers (kko) and 67.8 thousand people were consulted.
construction enterprises will soon be covered by permanent tasks.
this book was compiled from the moment the child entered school so that he knew the necessary information about his homeland. this is a very nice gift for a child who has just started to read , it will be a good guide .
each participant was awarded individual gifts and letters of thanks.
Guests of the tournament will also be able to enjoy national handicrafts.
aa. Idrissov noted the importance of the tourist visit in the "direct props" of information about the country's achievements in the formation of a tolerant and multinational society, the opening of new opportunities for activating the project activities of the ecu program office in Kazakhstan.
mobile air ambulance teams provided medical assistance in pathology, injuries, accidents and poisonings of childhood, circulatory diseases, neonatal pathologies and other diseases.
It is worth noting that 480 projects worth 84 507.4 million tenge have been supported in the capital since the beginning of the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
acceptance of this organization is an indicator of compliance of the Kazakhstan Register of Shipping with international requirements and confirmation of the confidence of foreign classification societies as part of tbso.
In turn, the Norwegian diplomat shared his Norwegian experience on recruitment to the public service, selection of candidates for new posts, rotation of diplomatic and administrative personnel.
the cheapest gas today is located in Aktobe region. today , the cheapest gas is in the aktobe region .
these are the right priorities.
The document is designed to provide real support to local entrepreneurs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that most businessmen participating in the business forum have been working in Kazakhstan for a long time and know well the opportunities and long-term prospects in the country.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the Minister of Defense of China on the successful holding of a military parade in Beijing dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War.
they comply with the outdated standards of the 1970-80s, "he said.
Also, the Secretary of State was presented with scientific projects within the framework of the promotion of "green technologies," developed by participants in various circles.
Sberbank of Russia is a strategic partnership of the Kazakhstan railway in the organization of transit transportation on the Eurasian continent and logistics infrastructure inside Kazakhstan and abroad.
In 2015, it is planned to launch 3 projects and create more than 370 jobs.
in addition, an independent certification system is planned.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for the development of business relations with the Pavlodar region, the organization of the Kazakh-Finnish forum of "green technologies," as well as the possibility of building a waste processing plant and a biogas plant in the region.
Systematic work in which Kazakhstan makes specific commitments on economic policy.
the question of simplification rests on the fact that, for example, there are international standards - how much time passengers spend on leaving the aircraft, receiving or issuing cargo, calculating how much time they will spend on registration. for example , there are international standards for the time spent to get off the plane , take the luggage , register or board .
According to the report, in 2015, 704 people will complete their studies, of which 622 will be employed, 35 obstetricians-gynaecologists and 47 pediatricians will continue their studies in residency.
A decision was made to hold a regular meeting of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the CIS.	the ministers of foreign affairs heard a report on the implementation of the interstate program  cultural capitals of commonwealth " in turkmenistan in 2016 , they analyzed the activities of the council of heads of state news agencies of the cis .
As part of the implementation of commitments under the UN Climate Change Convention and the Kyoto Protocol, as well as the concept of the transition to a green economy, Kazakhstan is working to improve energy efficiency of production, introduce renewable energy sources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The international competition "commonwealth warrior," which determines military professional excellence among servicemen of friendly armies, is held annually on the basis of the armed forces of the CIS countries.
According to the press service, the conference was attended by prominent public figures, honorary citizens of the region, deputies of the first and fifth convocations of the regional maslikhat, secretaries of city and district maslikhats, chairmen of election commissions, heads of judicial, prosecutorial and judicial bodies, state institutions, representatives of political parties and non-state organizations and the media.
Kazakhstan identifies and blocks these materials.
then it will be packed in warehouses or packed in containers, cars and sent to China, "said A. Sakenov.
In 2015, it is planned to build 500 thousand square meters of housing, including 1,080 square meters of rental houses in the Mangistau district, 66,992 square meters in the rehabilitation city. in 2015 it is planned to construct 500 thousand square meters of housing , including 1080 square meters of rental housing , 66,992 square meters of credit housing in aktau city .
The activities of the Union will have a positive impact on the further development of the transport and logistics complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the solution of such topical issues as analysis, forecasting, introduction and research of novelty in the field of the transport and logistics complex of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the implementation of the project included in the Republican Map of Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development, it is planned to reconstruct the underground deposit, build a new ore processing plant and create an appropriate infrastructure for the extraction of ore with a high gold content of 1.8 million tons per year.
Nevertheless, the work done gives its results, this year in the Taranovsky district work is underway on the extraction of iron ore at the Eltai-4 deposit, in the Denisov district - on the extraction of marble at the Komarovsky deposit.
The terms of training of technical vocational education specialists are reduced, the network of universities is optimized, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
In addition, according to N. Nazarbayev, for a quarter century of sovereignty, Kazakhstan has experienced an era of spiritual revival.
I wish you successful work and further development, "the text says.
today, the achievements of this unique culture are recognized throughout the world.
The business program business forum provides for meetings with Japanese companies in the v2v format and the signing of bilateral documents.
the interest of the parties in the need to increase the role of inter-parliamentary diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Hungary.
During the talks, the parties discussed the implementation of existing projects in partnership with the airbus group, and also outlined priority areas of future cooperation.
Starting with a discussion of the peculiarities of the work of educational officers and new approaches to his organization, the participants go on to a practical demonstration, that is, the actions of deputies on educational and socio-legal work when conducting firing and combat vehicles.
the field will contain a list of all drugs registered in Kazakhstan, information about their clinically proven effectiveness, possible reverse action, and the marginal price of each drug.
I am fulfilling my tasks, "said Tasbulatov.
enrolled in the reserve for the nomination of a number of officers to senior military posts who successfully passed certification, and also received referral to military higher educational institutions in 2015-2017.
Therefore, symbolism day is a big holiday for the Kazakh country, "said Burat Duzakbayev, head of the capital's emergency department.
if a small and medium-sized business is in the main free float, it necessarily depends on it.
by the way, the dough is hung manually.
we have maintained a transitional period, which has been done to ensure that proceedings dependent on this rule do not suffer. we have kept the transitional period for us to prevent damage of our producers that depend on this rule .
we have always been in a trusting relationship with you.
It is planned that by the end of the year coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years will reach 90.9%, and coverage of 1-6 years - 60.5%.
Kazakhstan has now completed the ratification of the package of instruments of accession to the World Trade Organization.
the main idea is to form a clean Kazakhstan team. the main idea is to create exactly the kazakh team .
During the sessions, work was carried out on the preparation and organization of company-tactical exercises involving aviation.
At the end, the head of state wished success to the staff of the enterprise, and veterans good health and well-being.
At the end of the visit, Gulshar Abdykalikova met with women's communities, whose ranks include deputies of the maslikhat, heads of state bodies, representatives of the business community and the state.
Kazunu is one of the young, promising educational institutions in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
on the administrative territory in the Veselopodolsky rural district on the basis of the agricultural enterprise pc No. 2 "rose - agro" LLP "lion - pc" such a post was opened.
the centre's administration, the centre's financial services regulatory committee and a number of other necessary bodies will also be established. regarding the taxation release for a period of 50 years till january 1 , 2066 of bodies and participants of the center from payment of corporate income tax , the property tax and a land tax is established .
there is one question that everyone should understand - these groups are the smallest religious minorities in the Muslim world, "he said.
young military engineers will soon return to Kazakhstan and officially begin military service in the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
the ability to build a family is the noblest dignity of a human child, which must be taught to children, "he concluded.
this can be fought through some mechanisms. there are mechanisms which can fight these problems .
I will bring this to all 168 member states of the international exhibition bureau, "said Volossertales.
In the era of globalization, the need for it is increasing, "the expert explained.
The main partner of language training is the leading international organization in the field of education - the British Council, the ministry said.
During the working trip, the head of the region got acquainted with the construction of the highway.
this is an import substitution project: previously goods for railways were supplied from Ukraine and Russia, now we provide all the needs of the railway industry with the capacities of our plant, "said A. Khachaturyan.
the rest of the products are planned to be exported to Russia and Central Asian countries.
The purpose of the training seminar is to teach comprehensive approaches to the application of gender aspects in improving social policy and the work of local governments.
At the meeting of the commission, proposals for awarding state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan received from state bodies and public associations were discussed.
Also in the central park of culture and recreation an exhibition of students of the children's art school was held.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, as part of the month, open days will be organized in primary health care organizations.
According to the CEO of Zhong-jin, not only the subsoil, but also human capital are important for investors.
in this regard, we can say with confidence that cultural policy today is an integral part of the ideological and political-cultural stability of the country.
I have the honour to meet all the guests of the Shu member countries. i have a great honor to receive the guests of sco member states .
At the end of the meeting, the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of JSC "National Company" Kazavtodor "noted that the schedule of work is carried out within the established time frame.
The visit of Czech entrepreneurs was organized by the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan and the Czech Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the CIS countries.
Russian colleagues praised the readiness of our sailors.
Medical personnel of Karaganda, Zhezkazgan and Balkhash cities are involved in carrying out preventive examinations and providing advisory and diagnostic assistance.
231 students claimed the gold mark, 136 of whom proved their knowledge.
support for agriculture.
Currently, a number of enterprises engaged in the production of military and dual-use products have been launched in the country.
so, the main nature of the seaport is speed.
they will reach the shore of the "coastal square," where the flag will be sent to the participants of the second stage of the action.
for example, the agency held meetings with the general contractor of the Abu Dhabi Plaza multidisciplinary complex, following which kspsteel entered into a contract for the supply of steel structures.
Secretary of State for Trade co-chair of the Kazakh-Spanish intergovernmental commission x. During the meeting with Legas-pons, the possibilities of interaction of sectoral state bodies in the economic block to attract corporate participants of EXPO-2017 were considered.
During this visit, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan met with officials such as the Minister of Agriculture of Ireland, the Secretary-General and Political Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Belarus and B. Robinson, Chairman of the Joint Committee of the Irish Parliament on International Affairs and Trade p.br.
During a general visit to the capital, the mayor of Milan visited the expo-2017 site, where he presented the draft of the future exhibition.
In addition, Kazakhstani peacekeepers will begin to carry out combat training missions together with the personnel of the contingents of the Armenian, Belarusian, Kyrgyz and Russian armed forces.
light industry is moving inside - clothing. besides that , gradually , the consumer goods industry is becoming more and more demanded , particularly - clothing .
this means recognition of the contribution of the Israeli people. strengthening ties between the two countries.
The beginning of the innovation week in Almaty is not free. the innovation week kicked off in almaty is not an accident .
Growth in the volume of housing commissioned in January-June 2015 was observed in Shieli (by 35.4%), ice (by 8.0%), Zhanakorgan (by 6.3%), Syrdarya (by 5.5%) (by 4.1%), island (by 2.2%), Karmakshin (by 0.2%) districts.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the priority should be to support key sectors of the economy that have a competitive advantage.
now the next step towards ensuring the independence of the public service is to strengthen the level of responsibility of the responsible secretary, "he said.
this will accelerate the preparation of as many tourism infrastructure facilities as possible before the start of EXPO-2017.
In addition, the Mayor focused on the prospects of bilateral partnership in the field of tourism, education, sports, culture.
According to the minister, the prospect of developing expo 2017 and the capital as a financial center will give a new impetus to the development of the modern cultural and tourist cluster of the capital and the cultural infrastructure necessary to form a brand recognized by the whole world as the "heart of Eurasia."
As noted, the participants of the meeting approved the introduction of the following regulatory tools: accreditation of engineering companies for the management of construction projects designed to perform the functions of customers and implement construction projects; accreditation of legal entities performing technical control of buildings and structures and technical survey of reliability and stability; accreditation of non-state centers for certification of engineering and technical employees of construction and design organizations.
- We cannot ignore the sustainable evolutionary constitutional development, speaking about constitutional trends in Kazakhstan, this is a great priority of the country.
In accordance with Decree No. 2541 of 19 October 1995 on improving the structure of the central executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the State Committee for Emergency Situations was established as the authorized central executive body in the field of natural and man-made emergencies and civil defense of the country.
contest participants competed in two types.
a positive rating action is carried out with an increase in Kazakhstan's ratings.
The ceremony was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defense, parents of poisons, veterans of the armed forces.
As part of this, we will participate in the export of their products, "he said.
at the expense of retired and retired judges. the supreme judicial council will be expanded : the judges and retired judges , elected for two years will join the council .
It is worth noting that to date, 16 projects in the road industry are being implemented in the country.
The National Museum of Kazakhstan held a meeting "Constitution - the basis of Kazakh society," dedicated to the anniversary holidays of 2015: the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of Kha.
K.Massimov expressed confidence that this visit of Dr. Kerry to Kazakhstan will give a good impetus to the establishment of close and strategic partnership between the two countries, especially in the trade and investment spheres.
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan Kairat Kelimbetov, the Deputy Chairman of the National Bank Dina Galieva and the Deputy Chairman of the Board of "Brzk" Ruslan Erdenayev.
he first linked the constitution and the economy.
In general, the construction of the road is planned to be completed in 2016.
the draft Code of Civil Procedure was currently being used by Parliament and was being signed by the Head of State.
The chairman of the Baiterek holding reported to his German colleagues on the work of the holding and its subsidiaries in various fields.
As the head of the WORLD noted, when attracting investments, first of all, attention will be paid to the quality of investments, production, and high-yield activities.
the development of instruments such as guaranteeing in conditions of too high demands. "
The Head of State thanked the President for his visit and contribution to strengthening relations between our countries based on friendship and trust.
It is worth noting that the purpose of these joint exercises is to strengthen mutual understanding and trust, exchange experience and cooperation between the armies, and increase the interoperability of the armed forces of the two countries in the fight against terrorism.
we have daily contact with EBRD representatives. the ebrd has already created a group of experts to study projects .
Professor holds advanced seminars on library science. professor will conduct advanced seminars on library science .
As the head of the region noted, despite the difficulties in the world economy, the Kazakh economy in the region continues to build socially significant facilities aimed at improving the living conditions of the local population.
the consulting company will begin the development of this project from next week and plans to complete it within two months.
Last year, an agreement was signed on the best reforms between the economy and the representation of Kazakhstan.
According to representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Development, the quality of non-resource exports during the implementation of the fiasco has grown significantly.
Governor of the region instructed to accelerate improvement work.
we have achieved the least in two years.
N.Modi expressed satisfaction that Kazakhstan has a positive attitude towards the Indian proposal to increase investments.
Following the discussion, the Government approved the bill.
The main goal is to make the capital the most convenient city in the country for doing business.
the state is trying to allocate as many grants as possible to them, "said N. Razzak.
N. Nazarbayev noted that he pushed through 20 constitutions of the world, the head of state headed the constitutional commission, worked actively, I believe that N. Nazarbayev is the main author of the modern current constitution. "
The competition was attended by public associations, organizations of people with disabilities, individuals, other departments and institutions whose activities are based on the development of the social protection system.
This is one of the effective ways, "said the head of the region.
According to the results of the work in this direction, the relevant councils of the ECE Council will be developed, proposing joint measures providing for the modernization of existing and creation of new industries, ensuring conditions for import substitution, increasing investment and innovation activity of the steel industry.
The competition was attended by such traditional singers as Ramazan Taimans, Abil chess, diamond of Almaty, Kazhibek Bekbosyns.
By the end of this year, Lokomotiv Plant plans to supply ten locomotives to Azerbaijan.
For 6191 purchased apartment 43.7 billion tenge was transferred to local executive bodies, "- said in a statement.
Of great interest was the production of the opera Aida, staged in the open sky.
today I turned to the road engine company.
small and medium-sized businesses are developing steadily.
The bill is aimed at creating favorable conditions for road transport between the States that are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. the proposed bill provides the ratification of the agreement between the governments of the sco member states to create favorable conditions for international road transportation .
the Minister drew the attention of those present to the fact that the treaty on Eurasia by consensus makes decisions on key issues of economic cooperation and provides for the veto on each member of the organization.
to join the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan citizens take a military oath and affirm for their homeland, people and country. citizens choose to join the armed forces of kazakhstan , take the oath to motherland , the people and the president .
70,465 applicants took part in the testing conducted on July 18-21, of which 48596 were applicants in Kazakh, 21869 were applicants in Russian.
The concept of the complex was created by the world-famous architect swarm varacalli.
Thanks to uiidmb, many factories have been built that can move from the place of Kazakhstan's business and import substitution, as evidenced by the limited liability partnership Prommashcomplekt and other engineering enterprises.
For us, whose economy is not so large, Kazakhstan must adapt to the changing economic situation and move on to life in a new reality, "the head of government said.
The head of state constantly says that Kazakhstan should become an intellectual country that is confidently moving towards the future.
Today, our officers and cadets, who associate their lives with military careers and military service, have the opportunity to study at military educational institutions in Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, India, Turkey, South Korea, China and Great Britain.
At the meeting chaired by Governor of Mangistau region Alik Aidarbayev, the heads of Kazneft JSC and Kazgoz LLP were instructed to stabilize the situation with gas supplies in the region.
therefore, employers should be actively involved in their development.
In the third section, proposals will be discussed to modernize the work of law enforcement agencies based on international requirements, "the report said.
currently, the country's energy system has been modernized, the capacity of power plants is 17 thousand. MW.
Recall that yesterday in the regional akimat the head of the region presented the jubilee medals "20 years of the Constitution of Kazakhstan" to the akims of districts and cities of the region, heads of regional departments, i.e. 50 people.
he noted that Kazakhstan provides for special measures, since the constitution establishes the basic rights of a citizen from the moment of birth.
The national team included athletes of several age categories.
quality of services to the population is a priority for local executive bodies. improving of the quality of services provided to the population is a priority for the local executive bodies .
the press conference will be attended by representatives of the Institute of State History.
As part of this work, the parties are jointly engaged in scientific activities.
the ambassador of Kazakhstan visited the seaport of Constanta and held talks with the chairman of the board of valeriu ionescu.
I do not need to describe Russian-Kazakh relations. there is no need to explain the importance of the russian-kazakh relations .
deputies of the Majilis visited Semey and saw a monument "stronger than death," dedicated to victims of nuclear tests on Polkovnichy Island.
The issue of pledging the missing property was resolved by the guarantee of the Development Fund, the report said.
in all areas there is an increase in agricultural products, in other areas of the regional center.
At the interregional level, topical issues of bilateral relations were raised, as well as work on preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017 was announced.
It was also noted that the program of action proposed by the President of Kazakhstan will allow the country to effectively overcome the current situation in the world economy.
The excursion head of the fire and technical center galina brmatova familiarized the children with the history of the creation and development of the fire service and informed about the work of the firefighters.
in excess of the growth of international terrorism, special forces had a major responsibility. at a time when the growth of international terrorism hits record lows , special forces have great responsibility .
This year, 13 joint projects with international financial organizations are being implemented, in connection with which 8 billion tenge was allocated for co-financing in 2015. together with international financial organizations the body launched 13 projects within " institutional development . "
we study the international experience, analyze the internal situation, see the following situation: in modern conditions, mechanisms of support from the state and their volume, their number is increasing, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
As for socio-economic indicators, in three indicators we lag behind last year. as for the socio-economic indicators , the region doesn 't show good indicators in comparison with 2014 , but taking appropriate measures we are able to reach the last year 's level .
For 5 months of this year, the foreign trade turnover of the region amounted to 77.6 million US dollars, including exports - 40.4 million US dollars, imports - 37.2 million US dollars.
in the regional context, the highest wage is set in the Mangistau region - 217.3 thousand tenge, which is almost 1.7 times higher than the average republican indicator.
all this due to the fact that we worked as partners, trusting each other, "said the head of state.
We continue to work on structural dialogue on human rights and key agreements reached between the countries of the region. we want to continue to work on key points achieved : a structured dialogue on human rights and countries in the region , to support the emergence of a strong civil society .
very fruitful negotiations took place today. our interaction in the fuel and energy sector has expanded .
It is worth noting that thanks to the introduction of new technologies, Kazakhstan has developed new medical and diagnostic methods for most urological diseases.
deputies of Mazhilis of parliament approved the bill "About Ratification of the Agreement on the Uniform Principles and Rules of Drug Circulation Within the Eurasian Economic Union" and "About Ratification of the Agreement on the Uniform Principles and Rules of the Address of Medical Devices (Products of Medical Purpose and Medical Equipment) within the Eurasian Economic Union".
For 22 years, 11 thousand 126 citizens of Kazakhstan studied in the 200 best educational institutions of 33 foreign countries, including 136 Karaganda citizens.
we highly appreciate our intentions to develop cooperation regardless of political and economic circumstances. in order to support the positive dynamics of mutual trade , we have drafted an action plan to increase turnover in 2015-2016 years .
today a certain part of this data is available, "added A. Rakhimzhanova.
in addition, major issues on the international agenda were raised.
Two national business clusters have been launched. we have implemented two business clusters : business campus in astana implemented in the nazarbayev university and technology garden in almaty .
we are opening an observatory that will allow our young scientists to achieve new achievements in science and life.
the first, a career, that is, a model of growth in service, is characteristic of states such as Germany and Japan.
The decision of the EEC board of August 18, 2015 on the mandatory approval of the deadline for the initial import of cars by customs authorities for 3 months was canceled, the report said.
This agreement was concluded between the Minister of Health and Social Development Tamara Duissenova and well-known professors at meetings during their work in Kazakhstan.
we know who is the founder of humanity in the framework of world history, we know what a declaration of human rights and a citizen from the history of France is. within the world history we know well who are the fathers - the founders of the united states , we know about such a declaration of human and civil rights from the french history , etc .
the global security environment is increasingly changing and becoming increasingly negative, and we are facing more opportunities.
stressed the importance of intensifying bilateral trade and economic relations with the Israeli side, as well as the prospects for interaction between the two countries in business structures on the market of the Eurasian Economic Union.
in the total volume of foreign investments, this is 2.5%, "said K. Bishimbayev, speaking at a meeting of the business council.
we have made a lot of efforts to start this process in the casatomprom in a timely and correct manner.
The highlight of the day will be the festive theatrical performance "Eternal Country," which will be held in the multifunctional ice complex "Barys."
It should be noted that amendments are being made to the Code of Administrative Offenses, as well as amendments to the Law "On Culture," "On Physical Culture and Sports."
the total area is 3621.6 square meters.
this gives a new impetus to the employment of women entrepreneurs in Kazakhstan.
I believe that the secret of a happy family is unity and unity, that is, in the great work of parents in raising children. we think the secret of a happy family is in unity and cohesion , in the tremendous work carried out by a father and mother in child-rearing .
more than 1200 participants from around the world competed in various competencies for the title of best.
7 citizens became cavaliers of the Order of Glory of the 3rd degree, "the report said.
the Ministry of Culture and Sports, headed by Lev Mukhamediuly, is carefully prepared for this holiday.
Kazakhtelecom Joint Stock Company is registered as a single data sending operator.
According to him, to date there have been no excitement in these shopping centers and gas stations, exchange points.
Therefore, a number of projects are being considered in the future, "said Yerzhan Sembinov.
According to the deputy, legal statistics indicate that corruption actions are still growing.
As the deputy chairman of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs noted, the chamber has developed a roadmap for the implementation of this system.
educating them as real patriots, responsible citizens, comprehensively, spiritually developed, wise people, we believe that our future will be bright, "he said.
Within the framework of the meeting, the head of the investment work department of kaznex invest JSC rakhat mukhtarov explained to investors the possibility and procedure for obtaining investment preferences.
East Kazakhstan is one of the most developed agricultural-industrial regions of the country with great economic opportunities. being one of the leading industrial and agricultural regions east kazakhstan has huge economic potential .
among the speakers today were teachers, astronauts, directors, artists - citizens of the country who can call themselves real patriots of our country.
in addition, a greenhouse is provided here.
R. Zhoshybayev met with the chairman of the Jordanian investment agency Montaser al-Oklah, responsible for Jordan's participation in international expo exhibitions, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates Mohammed Yasin, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources taleb Maabra and the Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism and Values Ibibrahim Gam.
this process is the first of the general processes carried out in the Eurasian Economic Union, which was approved by the decision of the board.
In addition, cultural and humanitarian cooperation continues not only in a bilateral format, but also within the framework of the inter-parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking states. "
this scheme ensures the delivery of cargo from China to Kazakhstan by container trains, and from Kazakhstan by air transportation to Europe.
Kazakh diplomat confirmed the invitation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to visit the capital on a state visit, which the King of Spain felipe has sent earlier.
I think that this will give impetus to the emergence of the economy, professional apparatus, "he said.
This project provides for the collection and systematization of documents and information related to the joint risk reduction program (ctr - kbt) initiated by Aksha senators in the early 1990s, as well as the oral memoirs of the experts present.
today we have achieved the goal set 5 years ago.
By the way, the design of the book is also special.
in addition, a foundation is laid for another object.
we were in the mound of the son of Abylai Khan.
kazatomprom produced 2015 tons of uranium in the II quarter of 3 177, including a stake in "white subsidiaries and dependent enterprises."
Thus, the thkb road show was officially launched.
Among the organized events are international conferences dedicated to the 20th anniversary of Kha, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution. among the events organized by the majilis : international conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the constitution and the 20th anniversary of the apk .
From January 1, 2018, under the law on pensions, employers will be forced to pay pensions in the amount of 5%. since january 1 , 2018 the new law provides the compulsory pension contributions by the employer .
B.Saparbayev gave a number of instructions to state bodies on further monitoring of prices for food, essential goods and the adoption of a set of measures to maintain them.
The parties noted the repair of new mutually beneficial ties at the level of energy, education, small and medium-sized businesses.
civil and administrative law, criminal justice.
It should be noted that the 3rd meeting of the Interstate Environmental Council of the CIS member states is being held in Russia.
Do not forget that our history, which lasted hundreds of years, is connected with the history of the Russian people. we must remember that we have a joint historical hundreds years path with the peoples of russia , first of all .
you can not only choose a convenient date for traveling through the terminals, but also check the availability of seats in the cars, choose the type of car (coupe, reserved seat, suite), consider price options and a tariff table (adult, children's ticket).
The report notes that the bicycles of the winners are exhibited on the stage of the Kazakhstan pavilion.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that cooperation, as well as comprehensive support for the projects being implemented, are the key to the successful implementation of the tasks set for the Turkic-speaking states.
It is noted that during the meeting, the transport potential of the two countries was identified, taking into account the development of the north-south corridor and effective logistical opportunities for mutual trade in markets of large states of the Indian and Eurasian continents.
in the nominations "The best duty officer and the best senior specialist" in the km of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the captain of the amangelda Arken and the senior sergeant of the cordial Danai were awarded.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that during the talks with the President of Kazakhstan B.B. issues of development of bilateral cooperation were discussed.
EXPO-2017 will become a world platform for discussing topical issues in the field of green energy.
investment activity is declining, therefore, according to current state programs, it is necessary to focus on efficiency and increasing productivity, get out of low-productivity industries, "the head of state said.
During the briefing, the head of state noted that the Kazakh side is highly respected during the visit.
The heads of state discussed topical issues of bilateral relations, considered positions on topical issues on the international agenda.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Law Enforcement Service" is supplemented to provide for the determination by the heads of law enforcement agencies of the procedure for adapting young workers and mentoring.
The staff of JSC TMK-Kaztruboprom expressed gratitude for the fateful decisions that make the development of the country more fruitful, and the life of its citizens is prosperous.
railway engineering plays a large role in the development of the economy of Kazakhstan. railway engineering plays a vital role in the development of economy .
The important role of the friendship group in the development of relations and cooperation between parliaments.
India and Pakistan are among the new members.
The "Nұrly zhol" program will supplement the employment program and increase opportunities for obtaining a new specialty through vocational education.
The competition commission included well-known businessmen, independent experts, representatives of financial institutions.
the hot actions of the Islamic state of Iraq and the levant (nation) pose a great danger, they again and again penetrate the Eurasian continent and are well located on the borders of the countries of central Asia. the aggressive activity of islamic state of iraq and greater syria constitutes a danger , which , unfortunately , has been steadily penetrated the eurasian continent and has already settled directly at the borders of the central asian countries .
Today, under the tripartite agreement, the law is under consideration at the meeting, and we will legalize it, "said E. Imangaliyev.
a new path of Kazakhstan "in addition to the Silk Road program, active measures are being taken to develop and modernize a single transport and logistics space.
we made this map one of the first in the republic using modern computer technologies. this map of the region with the use of modern computer technology we have created first .
at the same time, we have good mechanisms.
P. Poroshenko praised the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan to preserve peace in Ukraine.
During the meeting, issues of state language policy, government relations with civil society, joint work of the assembly with non-governmental organizations were discussed.
Arynov noted that together with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, new trade financing instruments have been introduced, thanks to which the domestic producer implements long-term and short-term product production agreements.
Romanian centers in Almaty, Karaganda, Pavlodar.
and the structure of structural institutional reforms. i would like to add a few words on structural reforms and institutional elements of these reforms , which will play a role in the future .
In addition, the captains of groups from Kazakhstan, Russian and Chinese naval troops were recognized as worthy of the highest award.
It is worth noting that as part of the project, it is planned to provide social assistance to low-income families who have reached 1 thousand 277 people, 365 families.
uiid mb gave Kazakhstan's business the opportunity to expand its space, import exchange plants - that as evidence it is possible to get our enterprise, the entrepreneur said.
we see that religious leaders use religious meaning in a negative sense. we , as religious leaders , faced with the challenges with religious meanings .
At the same time, the remuneration rate, taking into account subsidies under the Agribusiness 2020 program, will be 6.4%.
in particular, measures were considered to implement state programs aimed at supporting the real sector of the economy and SMEs.
The basis for refining the 2015 national budget was the adjustment of the socio-economic development plan for 2015-2019, taking into account the indicators of the 2014 economy.
A. Yessimov reported on plans for the upcoming period.
Currently, Kazakhs cooperate with leading educational institutions in Russia, Germany, Great Britain, Poland, the Netherlands, Turkey, Korea, Japan and other states.
all sanatoriums and recreation centers in the Caspian are crowded with population.
The purpose and theme of the meeting will be to strengthen the capacity of the participating countries to solve complex issues in the field of labor migration in Central Asia, the region as a whole.
Recall that at the expanded session of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the bill "On Public Service" was discussed and adopted.
During the meeting, prospects for further development of cooperation in the field of energy and petrochemistry were discussed.
he noted the need for interaction in the transport sector.
Also, the leaders of the two countries considered positions on key issues on the international agenda.
the first place went to the Mamlyut district and the Petrovpavl families of mambets and demyans.
to improve the quality of human resources capacity. measures will be taken to enhance the quality of human resources .
Mangistau region is the largest production zone of the country.
for large companies, this will attract investment, find new markets for goods, create and maintain jobs.
In turn, the German side noted the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan and expressed interest in implementing economic projects and conducting joint events within the framework of the Kazakh-German partnership in the field of raw materials, industry and technologies.
fairness of the law, modernization of the judicial system.
of the registered - 1 thousand 665 small enterprises, 14 - medium, 1 - large. of all the newly created legal entities , according to the number planned by companies for registration , 1,665 are registered as small businesses , 14 - average , 1 - large .
commemoration of the International Day of Older Persons.
it has been introduced by law since 2016. it was incorrect information about the increased tariffs .
according to him, the success of the inflation restriction will depend on the transparency and coordination of the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the national bank.
As the Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan noted, the inter-parliamentary council will contribute to the further strengthening of economic ties between the two countries.
It gives our children the opportunity to get a continuing education, pushing them for the better, "the head of state said.
only yesterday we returned from the celebration, and I believe that this is one of the important events that remain on the pages of history, "said P. Poroshenko.
It is worth noting that in accordance with the memorandum concluded last year between the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region and Kaztransgaz, funds were allocated for gasification of Baikonur city and districts.
as part of the program, parades of cadets of the Chuchinsky cadet corps were held.
the increase in tax revenues indicates an improvement in the business climate in the city. the growth of taxes shows that the business climate in the city is improving .
without unity and prosperity.
During the meeting, the head of the region informed the head of the region about the progress of the "red" project at the copper deposit in the Zharma region.
Of these, 100 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan in 2015, of which 50 billion tenge will be allocated to small and medium-sized businesses through the Development Fund, another 50 billion tenge will be allocated for lending to large business entities through kdb.
participants went tens of kilometers, with the transition to daytime and night time in unfavorable conditions, they fired at various targets, medical and mountain training, mastering obstacle lines, marching 30 kilometers, orientation of noise crossings, artificial explosive mine business and other special events.
Currently, work is underway on the formation of a package of legislative changes.
ratings also take into account significant financing of the holding by the state.
As the expert noted, Kazakhstan, together with other countries, is strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Our region has close trade and economic ties with certain regions of the People's Republic of China, "he said during the meeting.
according to the expert, this is a program that emphasizes the country's commodity policy and is aimed at providing domestic enterprises with high-quality personnel.
in addition to the housing sector and heating complexes, the air is also significantly polluted by vehicles.
jobs have been created at a different level. unique jobs of completely different category were created .
It is worth noting that the joint council of the Eurasia coordination center and the coordination group of experts is being held for the first time in Astana.
The leadership of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption took part in the solemn meeting dedicated to completing the training of the first graduates of Nazarbayev University.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War, home front workers, soldiers of interethnic forces, veterans of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, commanders of military units and institutions, representatives of the akimat of the city of Shymkent and the region came to the solemn oath ceremony in Shymkent.
the current improvement is the result of policy initiatives.
the work of the exhibition requires special attention. so my general impression is positive .
friendship will be prestigious and in demand, will become an environment for solving pressing issues. the commonwealth will be respected and demanded when solving the main burning questions .
To ensure high-quality transport communication between the capital and Rostov cities, a social exit project for Pavlodar and Kalbatau settlements has been launched.
few books about the life and activities of the head of state with domestic and foreign authors.
A feature of Kazakhstan's experience is that Khan Nursultan Nazarbayev himself leads and coordinates the activities of this industry, as well as the fact that the president's work over the year is a strengthening of unity in multinational Kazakhstan - this is an unprecedented experience, "said Asylbek Zheenbekov.
In addition, the participants of the "talks 2050" forum will be able to find out what area for the development of the region is beneficial for the residents of the East Kazakhstan region, where it is necessary to use state support and the main pace and forces, "he said.
The area of the water intake dam with rocky mm is being cleaned.
Since the direction of bread prices into free circulation is currently being considered, we plan to provide targeted assistance to socially vulnerable populations, "said the etc.
Recall that in order to establish close cooperation with the main participants in the innovation ecosystem of the Islamic Iranian Republic in 2014, a memorandum was concluded between the "park of innovative technologies" eea and the "scientific and technological park" Khorasan. "
deputies were asked questions in the field of benefits, pensions, land, employment.
the total length of the road is 304 kilometers (i technical category, 4 lanes, with cement concrete coating).
I think that this year's discussion will contribute to the formation and development of a common dialogue of values ​ ​ and culture, "said the President of Azerbaijan.
humanity is guided by the words of citizens who speak of traditions and indelible values. all mankind is guided by the words of those people who talk about tradition , about the immutable values .
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan briefed the President of Turkmenistan on the progress and prospects of further development of transit transport potential between the two countries.
through religion we seek basic qualities and an understanding of the meaning of life. we try to cover the fundamental principles and the meaning of human life with religion .
In addition, according to him, it is planned to attract a credit line for small and medium-sized businesses in the amount of about $200 million.
there found mounds and burial grounds covering the Islamic period, 3-4 centuries and even an earlier period.
In this regard, I want to note the importance of cooperation between the school of political management of the Nұr Otan party and the central party school, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
In this regard, the commission developed a project to provide benefits for the development of the steel industry in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, eek reports.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev will visit the UK, France, Oar, Saudi Arabia and a number of countries.
on the first page of the book, the first-grader receives important information about the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Akim gave a positive assessment to the high level and joint work of all structures that took part in the celebration of the Capital Day.
sanctions policies that mix the economy with policies impede trade and are inconsistent with policy principles.
According to the deputy, during the opening negotiations in the WTO, 4 main areas were discussed: availability of goods to the market, agricultural issues, legislative negotiations, access to the service market.
On behalf of the head of state, a plan for the development of the mining and metallurgical complex for 2014-2018 was developed. a plan for the development of mining and metallurgical complex in 2014 - 2018 was developed on behalf of the head of state .
I think that in the world there are unlikely to be politicians and heads of state who themselves have adjusted the text of the law or studied the constitution of other countries. i think there is no politics or national leaders who ruled the text of the law personally with a pen in a hand , and having studied the text of the constitution of a significant number of other countries .
As you know, today the educational industry faces great tasks, large reforms are being carried out in this area. as you know , nowadays the education system faces important demands , especially , there are great reforms in our country .
Thus, the problem of emergency schools has been finally solved in the Mangistau region, "S. Nareshova noted.
Recall that in the capital from July 16 to 22, 2015, the 43rd Bukialem Conference of Traditional Music of States, one of the largest international forums in the world of culture and art, will be held at the Kazakh National University of Arts.
a. Dzhaksybekov noted that this project is very necessary for the city and in the future it will become a tool for monitoring and evaluating all the services of the city.
It should be noted that in 2013 the implementation of the program "chicken" amounted to 80.9%, this year it is planned to bring it to 100%.
The new nine-story facility will consist of 1,2,3-room apartments.
According to the results of the second theater season of 2014-2015, the Astana Opera Theater hosted more than 200 events, along with performances in the permanent repertoire - three ballet performances of the city. Zhubanova "Karaguz," "Nut" p.i. Tchaikovsky, "Bakhchisarai Fountain" b.safyev. "traviata" and the famous director f. in the production of the zeffirelli there were five presentations, including two opera performances: "aida" j. verd.
this agreement proves a high level of cooperation in the field of transport engineering with the white and Azerbaijani ktz railways.
He also said that Hungary plans to take part in the specialized international exhibition "Expo-2017."
After 5 years, we held negotiations on allowing foreign banks and insurance companies to open branches directly. we agreed that after five years we will allow to open direct branches of foreign banks and insurance companies to work in our financial market .
Already this year, despite the shortage of funds, 1 billion tenge was allocated to increase the material and technical base of the internal affairs bodies.
In terms of priority industries, most of the taxes came from existing in the manufacturing industry (24.9 billion tenge or 53.8% of the total amount of taxes) and transport and warehousing (9.8 billion tenge or 39.5% of the total amount of taxes).
the rally will be held on the basis of the republican complex of children's recreation "meray."
One of these facilities was the Yunost dairy complex, where deputies visited Elena Tarasenko, the shavkhat of Utemis, the samigall of orazov and Victor Kiyansky.
In general, Kazakhstan is carrying out systemically great work in the field of combating international extremism, terrorism, "the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan concluded.
As for the countries of the customs union, Belarus - 44, Russia - 51, Kyrgyzstan - 67.
we can convey to us all the beauty of music, passion and drama, and I hope that the metropolitan listener will enjoy these great works with us, "said Sofia Rama.
In order to improve the quality of trade stimulation, attention was paid to such sectors as energy, transport, communications, the automotive industry of the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In turn, German companies expressed readiness and interest in joint work with Kazakhstan in these areas.
The State is taking unique measures to remove administrative barriers and simplify procedures in order to create an enabling environment for entrepreneurship. the state creates all the best conditions for businessmen : reduces the chances for administrative problems and simplifies procedures .
Through the credit line of the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation, we have financed the first stage of rehabilitation of the international seaport.
Now we expect that in the near future Italy will take part in the expo 2017 and will be confirmed by the appointment of a commissioner, "said the chairman of the board of Astana Expo 2017.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the conference was attended by famous writers, winners of state prizes, creative persons.
First of all, I would like to mention several topics. first of all - the health of women .
One of the topics of our cooperation is information cooperation.
these are measures to turn Kazakhstan, the capital, into a large financial and cultural center that will contribute to the development of tourism.
At the same time, as A. Sarinzhipov emphasized, in all 5 reforms of the National Plan, the field of education was especially noted.
Guests of the Russian Federation, including the chairman of the legislative assembly of the Orenburg region, Moscow, Orenburg, Samara and Saratov speakers and coaches, were also invited to the conference.
we have reserves of surface water and groundwater, but irrigated agriculture is developing slowly. "
our servicemen have extensive experience and at any moment demonstrate high combat readiness, confidently overcoming all stages.
deepening integration processes in the Eurasian space opens new horizons of partnership - including for the nearest neighbor - Kazakhstan.
The share of kmg in ccel, kgm and pki companies in the first nine months of 2015 amounted to 3,026 thousand tons (83 thousand barrels per day), which is 3% less than in the same period of 2014, and mainly due to a systematic reduction in oil production in pki.
participants in poverty raised issues of employment, housing, psychological and legal assistance to convicted youth, the development of young entrepreneurship, religion and trust among young people.
The sides discussed the state and prospects of cooperation between the two countries in various areas, including the possibility of Finland's participation in expo 2017.
The event was attended by the leadership of the region, a member of the working group of the national commission under the President, who oversees the implementation of five institutional reforms, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Religious Affairs of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Bakhytzhan Keneshev, representatives of national cultural centers, non-governmental organizations, youth organizations, political parties, intelligentsia, gardeners.
in addition to Kazakh and Russian, English, the library has books in Chinese, French, German.
The meeting was also attended by the Head of the Office of the Head of the Government of the Anuar Omarozhayev and the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to India Bolat Sarsenbaev.
tankers, sailors and pilots in an unidentified training session and high combat mood.
Also, in order to create favorable conditions for investors and place their projects, work is already underway to create 5 industrial zones, in which 67 enterprises are located, and bring their number to 400.
It was decided to conduct operational-tactical exercises of units of the CIS power corps at the training ground "rocky city - capital" of the Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in our region in the Tasotkel reservoir there is audio with a capacity of 9.2 MW, in the Merken district - 1.5 MW. in our region there are 2 hydroelectric power stations : with capacity of 9.2 mw on tasotkel reservoir , capacity of 1.5 mw in merke district .
Note that this year marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of the writer and Esenberlin.
with his daily selfless work, he defeats the fighter-signalmen. he demonstrates devotion to the glorious traditions of soldiers - signalmen .
The event was attended by a representative of the regional office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees for Central Asia Bernard Doyle, the regional coordinator of the international organization for migration in Central Asia, keserovich, representatives of government agencies, the statement said.
After joining the WTO, it is necessary to resolve this issue at the state level by conducting appropriate explanatory work among entrepreneurs on the preparation of piles working on the basis of new agreements in the domestic market, "the expert said.
Disability, age and survivor's benefit; to receive a special state allowance; State special benefit under lists 1 and 2; receive social benefits in case of disability, breadwinner, work; receive basic pension payments; paperwork for receiving targeted social assistance is carried out in one place, "said the company.
Within the framework of this institute, it is planned to open three institutes: the Academy of Justice and its management: magistracy, advanced training of judges, development of scientific and practical activities. it is proposed to transform this institution into the academy of justice and to create three other institutions : the judiciary , judicial training and research .
participation of the company in the oil and gas market is one of the key points of our cooperation with China. the development of the oil and gas market is one of the main points of our cooperation with china .
the first - ensuring transparency of power, the second - improving the quality of public administration.
According to the message, the main law, which became an example of the realization of the interests of the people and their will, was a strong initiative that united Kazakhstanis, which ensured the passage of such periods as the foundations of independence of statehood, the established state and, ultimately, multilateral historical transformation, political stability, interethnic, interfaith world.
I think that joint exercises will strengthen the friendship of our armed forces and help both sides to exchange experience. "
according to tradition, the government and city authorities organize various festive events dedicated to the holidays, "said the media.
where competing, quality and price change.
the leaders of the two countries expressed support for the efforts of the world community in the fight against international terrorism.
The board was attended by members of the public council at the Prosecutor General's Office, heads of the supreme court, a number of ministries and departments, regional akimats.
I believe that Kazakhstan is contributing to the establishment of peace on earth through such forums, "the head of state said.
Members of the Parliament of the Italian Republic of Edmondo Chirielli and Adolfo Urso, an expert on the legislation of the countries of the former Soviet government, Catherine Filipina, were also invited to the event from the Italian side (University of Milan), widely known in Italy, University ka Foskari (Venice), professor of history, culture and geopolitics, head of the program for the Caucasus and Central Asia of the Milan Institute for Research on International Politics, acted as a scalea expert as an expert in the higher school of aldo ferrari, isag geopolitics and related disciplines.
More than 40 states expressed a desire to cooperate within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, "he said.
The event was attended by representatives of local expert groups, Kazakh and Armenian tourism organizations and the media.
"Thanks to the adopted state program of infrastructure development" Nұr zhol "and within the framework of the Government's Urgent Measures Plan for 2015-2016, the growth of Kazakhstan's economy for 10 months amounted to 1%," the minister said.
The Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev managed to form a fruitful state of social harmony, strengthen confidence in the people of Kazakhstan for tomorrow, as well as develop a strategy for the development of the country.
In 2010, we had only 2 private kindergartens.
In the organized industrial zone of cognac, which occupies 2049 hectares, there are 520 enterprises of 80 different sectors of production, the number of people employed in them is 30 thousand people.
The 36-story building ends with a 25-meter tower.
It is worth noting that for Kazakhstan it is the 4th college on this university games.
paid public works were organized by 85 enterprises and organizations of the city and agriculture, in which 696 unemployed took part.
In 2014, the construction of 2 residential buildings for 60 apartments in the Titov microdistrict and on Kappasbay Batyr Street began.
This list is extended.
Work in this direction is small, consortia created from several companies work in this regard, "he said.
This direction is important for the continuation and strengthening of security conditions in good neighbourliness and the Caspian Sea, as well as deserves high confidence among the Caspian leading countries, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov.
this is the most sought after when it enters the eeo.
The Department of Combating Drug Trafficking in the 7th of this year identified and solved 2 thousand 123 crimes related to drugs. for 7 months of the current year the department of counterdrug has identified and disclosed 2,123 drug-related crimes .
Recall that the building is located in the area of ​ ​ the central stadium "Zhetysu" in Taldykorgan.
more recently, we visited Karaganda, where we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the creation of the Dacia ethnocultural center.
The head of the development department of the assembly of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs told about investment projects of Zhambyl region.
and continuously monitor the evolution of these indicators.
Every year, more than 100 thousand citizens of Kazakhstan enter Europe without violating migration laws.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to continue work in this direction.
Currently, the legislation provides for the work of the institution of a business ombudsman. currently , the legislation has provided the institution of business ombudsman .
now there is active preparation for the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. our main aim in the near future is the olympic games in rio de janeiro .
very convenient for entrepreneurs, in the center of servicing entrepreneurs.
the company's perspective plan is to enter the market of Tajikistan and Russia.
school textbook coverage is an important issue, constantly under the control of the state leadership. providing schools with textbooks is a serious issue under the control of the state administration .
According to the minister, social facilities remain under the jurisdiction of the state.
among them, the first place is taken by the national scientific cardiac surgery center, which has already become popular in the CIS countries and other countries of the world.
He also spoke about the role of Kazakhstan as the core of global initiatives and the contribution to the dialogue of national civilization.
One of these schools is Metropolitan School No. 77.
These main issues were discussed in the first working group created by decision of the head of state.
This direction in police activity is one of the most important tasks.
transparency of trade is considered through a special portal. transparency of trading is provided through a special portal .
In addition, the head of state visited the archaeological park, where he got acquainted with the results of archaeological excavations.
Following the discussion, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to the competent State bodies.
time did not spare anyone. within six months i issued 147 decrees , adopted in 1995 .
in Helsinki von Witte is an effective dialogue platform for gathering politicians, scientists and businessmen to discuss modern issues and create steps to develop international economic cooperation.
As part of the expedition, famous historians in the country, local historians, public figures, and representatives of the media worked.
I think that there is no need for outside, because Kazakhstan has a plant with high technologies.
in addition, sectoral concepts and program documents are needed, such as the introduction of changes and additions to the concept of cultural policy, the development of the concept of physical culture and sports, the concept of creating a national holiday calendar, the concept of kha, the concept of strengthening conformity and unity, the state program on the development of languages ​ ​ and their activities, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
the purpose of this agreement is the development of an international road route among Shu participants and the formation of a mutually beneficial transportation market. the purpose is to develop international road transport between the sco member states , to form mutually beneficial transport market .
I think the 21st century is a rapidly changing world age. i think that the 21st century is the century of the rapidly changing world .
with the help of the company's airlines, it became possible to promote such a large national project around the world.
in addition, it is envisaged to develop a subsoil use code for 2015-2016.
in particular, the declaration of the V congress of leaders of world and traditional religions which took place in the capital on June 10-11 of this year with participation of 71 delegations from 42 countries of the world, the 550 anniversary of the Kazakh khanate, the 20 anniversary of the constitution of RK and Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan and the atomic project and also on August 27, 2015 in Astana the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Atomic Energy Agency (magate) on the signing of an agreement on the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium in Kazakhstan.
86.5% and 90.6%, respectively.
The main topic of the meetings was cooperation within the framework of the Shu and CIS.
"For many years I have admired your work on reconciliation in the region, rapprochement of peoples and religions," said the King of Jordan.
Today, solemn events are organized in all LCD departments.
The head of state also got acquainted with domestic goods manufactured under the sign "Made in Kazakhstan."
Currently, a whole set of documents has been adopted within the framework of the EAEU, large-scale work has been carried out to create a single market. a large complex of documents has been adopted within the eaeu , a lot of work has been done to create a single market .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that it is symbolic that the meeting took place on the eve of the closing day of the Semipalatinsk test site and the international day of countering nuclear tests, which is celebrated by the United Nations.
however, despite the fact that the winners of the "batyr aryla," like the real soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, passed this test.
Recall, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took part in the 70th anniversary session in New York.
I think that this holiday is of special importance for every citizen of our country, "said the head of the department.
In addition, aset issekeshev invited investors to take part in the creation of a model factory and a training center in Kazakhstan.
According to him, currently in order to improve transport links between the capital and the regions, reconstruction and construction are underway on a number of roads.
The meeting also discussed the possibilities of close interaction between the EEO and other major integration organizations: Shu, Brix, Ates, G-20 and Asian, African, Latin American.
The participants of the seminar got acquainted with the information on the current socio-economic situation in the country, as well as the measures taken by the Government of Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate.
According to Abdikhalikova, Kazakhstan clearly shows that innovative solutions for innovative support and innovative insurance are being developed.
this is a station for young technicians, a center for children's creativity, a music school, a youth sports school.
Business meeting between entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region and China also took place.
The Embassy of Kazakhstan familiarized the participants of the event with the main directions of the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan direction - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
because Kazakhstani businessmen and state holdings can buy Ukrainian companies engaged in visa-free trade with Europe, "said R. Demchak.
The head of the upper house of parliament invited Cuban companies to take part in the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
Reforms to create an effective State and changes in education.
The head of the Lithuanian government drew attention to the dynamically developing partnership between the capital and Vilnius and expressed hope for further strengthening of these relations.
this is not the only enterprise in the region that works in this direction, "the report said.
I want to pay special attention to the festive design of the capital. i want to note the festive decoration of the capital .
samruk-kazyna plans to pay by the end of 2015.
after that, representatives of the Chinese army recently saw the mylino track, where the tank biathlon championship of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held.
Recall that the project provides for economic integration, the formation of a single transport space and transparency of competition.
if light industry is promoted, those who work in industry enterprises receive salaries and pay taxes to the state.
I enjoy two days of work with Kazakhstani natives. i hope to get two days of pleasure from dialogue with the musical multi-million russian-speaking audiences around the world and to communicate with the kazakh audience .
During the event, novice entrepreneurs were given advice and state programs were presented.
In addition, the governor of the region emphasized that it is necessary to intensify construction work and at the same time pay great attention, especially to housing construction.
Secretary of State for Tourism During negotiations with the Western Cortes, the parties agreed to exchange experience on the development of tourism, training specialists in this field.
Representatives of financial institutions, akims of rural districts, heads of agricultural structures, heads of peasant farms were invited to the meeting.
The head of state noted that it is necessary to create favorable conditions for the participants and guests of the exhibition and to develop a careful schedule for visiting the exhibition.
The young people, implementing this project, will contribute to the implementation of 5 institutional reforms proposed by the head of state.
it is industrialization and the development of medium-sized businesses, a large share of the middle class - this is what we need.
At the same time, in accordance with the legislation of the EAEU countries, each country makes changes to its legislation, "he said.
During the event, the participants were clearly presented with the procedure for submitting documents to the court in electronic form by the electronic information service "sending administrative cases" through the "judicial cabinet."
Five institutional reforms of the head of state will bring to life new human capital, new institutions of advancement. five institutional reforms by the president form the new human capital and new institutions .
in this regard, the head of state again proposed to transfer one percent of the defense budget of each state annually to a special UN fund for sustainable development.
Kazakhstan's accession to the convention will increase the effectiveness of cooperation in the fight against crime by establishing an international legal framework in the provision of mutual assistance in criminal cases with the countries of the American continent, the statement said.
Currently, the map contains information on medical organizations, social facilities, maternal and infant mortality, the number of people suffering from HIV, as well as on persons with disabilities. currently the map contains information about medical organizations , social facilities , showings of infant and maternal mortality , data on the number of hiv-infected patients , as well as people with disabilities .
A confidential exchange of views was held on a number of topical issues of regional security and stability.
In addition, according to alibek Askarov, as part of the Cultural Heritage program, 160 volumes of books were published in a circulation of more than 350 thousand copies, about 5 thousand different valuable documents were delivered to the country.
in addition, in the Uygur region, leather processing and breathing of the Telmanzhan leather economy were worked out.
a month and a half ago I was appointed president of the Biathlon Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. i have become a president of the republic of kazakhstan biathlon federation .
One of the girls is an entrepreneur, and the other daughter works as a safety engineer at the makat station of the White branch of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked for the invitation and a hospitable meeting with the enamel rahmon, and also congratulated the Tajik people on two important holidays - Independence Day and the 300th anniversary of the Gissar.
we are interested in promoting cooperation between institutions.
The bill is aimed at regulating the legal mechanisms of state support for the non-governmental sector.
During the event "People's Hero," a deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Lieutenant General Bakhytzhan Ertaev awarded sponsored entrepreneurs badges of various degrees.
dancers from all over Kazakhstan took part in it.
decreased production of food, beverages, tobacco, refining and motor vehicle products.	the production of rubber and plastic products , production of light , metallurgical and chemical industries has been also increased .	0,90
including, tightening to the belt, firing from an air rifle - 74 shots from 100 meters, wearing a gas mask, as well as military medical training: demonstration of the first bandage, evacuation of the injured.	these are : pull-up on the bar , shooting ak-74 , air rifle shooting , putting on a gas mask and military-medical training : the imposition of a primary dressing , evacuation of the wounded .	0,90
We plan to conclude an agreement in the fourth quarter of this year, "said Shakarim Bukhtugutov, Chairman of the Board of East Kazakhstan Region Regional Center for Public-Private Partnership.
This year, we began to realize the experience of creating a green zone along the entire Koshkar-ata river. "
As the deputy chairman noted, one of the major projects is being implemented in the capital, this is the construction of light rail.
in total, the number of applications reached 2,095, of which 2,080 were sent to the commission for consideration, and the remaining 15 documents were not considered due to insufficiency.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the current changes in the world raw materials market affect the industry, and therefore the company requires great efforts to maintain the pace of production.
these proposals are aimed at radically improving the professionalism of public servants, effective actions to modernize the work of the judicial system and law enforcement agencies, strengthening Kazakhstan's identity, improving the mechanisms for the work of the "open government," transparency and accountability of state bodies, and strengthening public control.
local executive bodies today prepared a plan for the month, "said S. Zhakupova.
I consider it advisable to hold festive events in Zhambyl region, because the meeting of khans was held in Zhambyl region. the celebration is held in zhambyl region , because the meeting of the khans was in the territory of this region .
According to him, this situation has a positive effect not only on poultry farming, but also on all industries of Kazakhstan.
Note that since the beginning of 2015, a group of companies of the Baiterek holding has created 113 jobs.
In this regard, the head of state supported the industry, "said A. Rau.
The press conference will be attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yegor Kappel, Shalatai Myrzakhmetov, Zukhra Sayapov, Yuri Tymoshenko and Victor Kiyansky.
potential investors are offered projects for the construction of a meat processing plant, the construction of commodity dairy firms, dairy processing enterprises and the processing of agricultural products.
It will feature works that can compete with the works of world-famous designers, "said the fashion producer of the competition.
Now we hope that we will have success until the end of these competitions, "said the team captain.
During your years in the presidency, you were able to ensure peace and harmony in the country and create a modern democratic state. over the years , you have coped to bring peace and harmony in the country , to build a modern democratic state .
all this unites us, "said S. Geroev.
Particular attention was paid to the acceleration of ratification of the agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the EU.
85 steps - development of the project of a patriotic action "The m g_l_k ate".
As a result, the stepnogorsk construction department entered into an agreement with the winning company, "the report said.
in May, a sowing campaign continues in the northern, central and western regions due to precipitation exceeding the average long-term norm by 3 times.
Today, the Samruk-kazyna Foundation is working on the issue of preliminary publication on the fund's website of technical explanations on ongoing public procurement, "he said. Altaev.
According to the authors, they tried to show the life of a talented citizen who was able to rise to the political peak of the country and adequately show it on the world stage.
alma-ata is a beautiful city, but its beauty remained a little hidden, and these mountains, trees and wastewater should be emphasized. almaty is a beautiful city , but its beauty is a little hidden , they should be emphasized - mountains , trees , water , and others .
Within the framework of the forum, an exhibition of Kazakh-Japanese investment projects will be held.
At the same time, the young artist is very pleased to perform on the same stage with such big artists, "the singer said.
The President of Ukraine also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, noting the importance of the anniversary, which is a symbol of statehood and reflects the depth of the historical roots of our country.
because the competition in the world market is strong.
this week, participants will show paramilitary hand-to-hand combat, combat training and fire training, the professionalism of driving military vehicles, will fulfill tasks on military topography and medical training.
the analysis contains statistical data on the peculiarities of the judicial system, the legislative framework of the countries of the region, as well as on the work of the courts.
The main goal of the ministries of the social group, local governing bodies and the Kazakh society as a whole is to achieve concrete results by implementing 5 reforms set by the head of state in terms of the nation, "said K. Valiev.
In general, as a result of the implementation of the program by 2018, the revenues of 30 companies will amount to 170 billion tenge. implementing " national champions " program , it is expected to increase total revenue of 30 selected companies to kzt 170 billion , to create about 5,000 job places , to improve export of manufactured products to kzt 35.5 billion , import substitution to kzt 66.4 billion , gdp to kzt 85 billion , and revenues to the state budget to kzt 24 billion by 2018 , " noted k. tuleushin .
the second is higher education.
17,964 non-residential objects worth 106.1 billion tenge were received, including 4,475 commercial objects worth 73.7 billion tenge, 15 shares of legal entities worth 0.8 billion tenge, securities worth 4.0 billion tenge.
At the same time, according to the regional akims, most of the allocated funds were directed to the development of housing and communal services and infrastructure in these cities, and a small part - to the development of entrepreneurship.
Famous German cultural figures noted the evolutionary nature of Kazakh statehood and the contribution of the Kazakh Library project to the popularity of Kazakhstan in Germany.
In addition, the achievements of Kazakhstan in maintaining socio-political stability, ensuring interethnic and interfaith harmony, as well as the stability and consistency of the process of democratization and liberalization, were emphasized.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of customs and trade.
today this industry has moved to a purely scientific direction. this is an area in the world for a long time has passed from a purely scientific in practice .
when combining, leadership teams, team teams are replaced, domestic and foreign specialists are involved in the exercises. meanwhile , the leadership will be changed as well ; the team will involve football leading experts from kazakhstan and neighboring countries .
the advantage of this program is that projects of young entrepreneurs in any field can participate in it.
The Prime Minister of India noted that his country highly appreciates relations with Kazakhstan, within the framework of which close trade and economic cooperation and the establishment of strong bilateral ties have been achieved.
Also, do not forget that today the media is an information weapon of wide use in geopolitics, "said Dauren Abayev.
July 31 hook will sign an agreement with the hosts of the Olympics-2022.
this is an elevator and mill complex "ikea tass group" in the Akkayyn district, an organization for the production of dairy products of arbat food LLP in the Taiynshin district, an organization for the production of corn "rainbow" and dry breakfast, an organization producing composite reinforced concrete elements for the construction of a frame and panel house in Petropavlovsk, Edingo LLP.
the new guard room with an area of ​ ​ 8 sq.m. 10 consists of 7 rooms: the head of the guard, the operator, the rest room and the guard shift, the dining room, the toilet, the water room and the charter of the internal service of the armed forces, other troops and military units of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Particular attention was paid to the issues of price control in the field, preservation of jobs and timely payment of wages.
trainees will learn the language only in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the main mechanisms for the implementation of the scholarship were studied, a joint five-year program of the Republic of Kazakhstan was developed, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
A prerequisite for the mechanism is the payment of wage arrears in full before the conclusion of a settlement agreement, "the minister said.
Compared to the same period in 2014, the volume of transported goods increased by 5.9%.
in addition, 1,322 entrepreneurs received loan guarantees in the amount of 58.457 billion tenge.
The head of state noted that the current work of the company in Kazakhstan is important for our state.
According to him, today Kazakhstan has republican federations in five regions.
For two years, EU experts studied this issue, "said S. Ersaliev.
at a meeting with San Francisco Deputy Mayor Mark Chandler, the possibilities of partnership between US-Kazakhstan companies and issues of investment cooperation were discussed.
its goal is to improve the socio-economic conditions of citizens by attracting new technologies to the industrial and innovative program, providing new technologies, and improving the financial literacy of citizens.
Following the meeting, the parties expressed their opinion on further strengthening of partnership relations between the courts of the two countries.
The purpose of the program is to create a favorable environment at school. "
it explains not only legal, but also social and psychological and pedagogical aspects.
We believe that Customs and Border Protection provides a good opportunity to work with the private sector, international national groups and various civil sector groups.
If an association of women's entrepreneurs unites, then they will be able to participate in major industrial privatization, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
In turn, the head of the Romanian diplomatic department noted that Romania is one of the first European states to recognize the independence of Kazakhstan.
In fact, 79 objects were put up for sale, 58 objects were sold.
The Ministry of Investment and Development is preparing a draft order "On the approval of innovative grants" on this issue and coordinating it with representatives of the competent authorities.
Recall worldskills is an international non-profit movement whose goal is to improve the skills of workers, as well as organize and conduct professional skills competitions around the world and coordinate the best experience and development of professional education in a global standard.
As N.Nazarbayev noted, the artist's works are known not only to Kazakhstanis, but also to representatives of far and near abroad.
understanding the past and future of our land is our historical path, it is important for us to increase Kazakhstan's popularity in the global community, "N. Nazarbayev said.
this is the first that gives us an electronic passport, secondly, gives everyone a personal account that gives full information about their health, "the minister said.
Based on the implementation of the memoranda, 7,946 contracts with domestic manufacturers worth 1 trillion tenge were implemented, the implementation rate is 71.8%. on the basis of the memoranda 7946 contracts with domestic manufacturers in the amount of 1 trillion tenge have been signed , the performance is 71.8 % .
Belarusian delegation in the framework of public procurement of services provided by the state social order in the field of health care for 2011-2015 as part of the implementation of the state program "Salamatti қazaқstan" together with the Governor's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the epidemiological situation on ait/life in the republic and in the city temirtau "Kazakhstan Union of People Living with Which."
Kazakhstan has common strategic tasks, and the Kazakhstani people, despite ethnic restrictions, went on the implementation of their goals, "said A. Sadvakasova.
The mission of the responsible secretaries is to administer State bodies and implement the decisions of political public servants. the executive secretaries will administer the public agency and implement decisions of political civil servants .
the initiatives implemented by Kazakhstan inspire us very much.
put population policy in Kazakhstan on the agenda.	the subject - demographic processes in kazakhstan and legislative support .	0,91
a separate area related to expert activities.
According to him, in order to promote this sport 2.4 thousand competitions were held.
at the same time N.Nazarbayev discussed the state and prospects of bilateral relations, including trade, economic, political, cultural and humanitarian relations.
Recall that today in the capital is held the 14th meeting of the secretariat of the Congress of Representatives of World and Traditional Religions.
one of them took place at the end of October this year on the basis of the Korla training center of the Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region of China.
Over 3 years, the institute has trained more than 5 thousand parents of Astana.
In turn, the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Slovenian Republic P.Heinz confirmed the interest of the Slovenian Parliament in further strengthening and expanding bilateral cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan, and also expressed his readiness to promote and support all actions taken in this direction.
The head of the Department of Language Development Department reported on the implementation of the State Program for the Functioning and Development of Languages ​ ​ for 2011-2020.
It should be noted that after the completion of the infrastructure and reconstruction, the enterprise will begin mining from next year.
in this format, you have been holding meetings for almost 20 years, and 15 years ago received the status of an international body of the CIS. 15 years ago , the organization received the status of the cis 's international body .
Unfortunately, we have different times for these measures in developed countries.
The Governor's Office of the region developed the concept of a large-scale action, which will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the national idea of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "Eternal Country" and is timed to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
9 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget, the remaining 3 billion tenge were realized through special grants from the World Bank.
According to him, in 2015 there were 50 thousand violations of the law throughout the republic.
relations between people is one of the important issues, because it is necessary to guarantee the future of every citizen, here is the Kazakh example that we presented to the couple and ecu, "said E. Togzhanov.
The meeting was attended by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Czech Republic to Kazakhstan, the Honorary Consul of the Czech Republic Uzakbay Aitzhanov and the Director of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the CIS countries Frantisek Masopust and the Deputy Governor of the region Serik Turdaliyev.
The building consists of 5 ground (the height of the first floor is 10 meters, the remaining 5 meters) and two underground floors.
31,796 objects worth 225.6 billion tenge were legalized.
the safety of Kazakhstanis, the painless life of citizens, confidence in the future depend on the quality of these works, "said Nursultan Mukashev, colonel of the Karaganda Department of Internal Affairs.
Note that the brix includes Brazil, Russia, India, China, and the South African country.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted that there are currently 95 integration structures and unions in the world and 590 regional trade agreements have been signed, of which only 377 have entered into force.
The entrepreneur of the village Akai niyazbayev received a guarantee from the Development Fund in the amount of 12,600,000 tenge or 70% of the loan amount for the implementation of the project under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
within the framework of these meetings, our directions and forecasts on the economic situation were determined. within the framework of these meetings the main guidance and expectations for the economic situation will be identified .
the Republic of Belarus, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Ministers of Education and Science, the Deputy Ministers of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tajikistan, the basic organizational delegates of the CIS member States in the field of information security, language and culture, educational and educational activities for adults, delegates in the field of training personnel in the field of basic natural sciences, representatives of the CIS Executive Committee.
The head of the capital told the guests about the achievements of the capital in a short time.
Kazakhstan plans to become one of the best economies not only in this region, but also in the world.
political stability and inter-ethnic harmony.
within the framework of the mission, they will meet with leaders of political parties, the leadership of the central election commission and the National Border of Azerbaijan, as well as visit polling stations.
- Today, the global world is facing another phenomenon in the pace of economic development.
The partnership was developed by signing bilateral documents in the legal sphere with the aim of double taxation and tax evasion in international road transport, the head of state said.
we are still under the influence of the depreciation of this exchange rate, we have not yet fully realized this pressure, therefore this factor affects our economy, the foreign exchange market, the decline in Kazakhstan's exports, the occurrence of inconsistencies in the payment system, "said the head of state.
Following the meeting, the parties signed a special protocol, which examined issues of bilateral trade exchange and economic cooperation between the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia and the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Zhambyl Region through the exchange of experience regarding the economic potential of the parties concerned, support for trade missions of the two countries.
In addition, the leaders of the two countries exchanged views on a number of topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
It should be noted that the round table was organized as part of the project "Organization of dialogue platforms for the provision of public services in various regions of the country."
The purpose of the conference is to provide a platform for experts to discuss the results of their research, prospects for their development and practical application in the field of large and open data, in the future to provide the population with the most interesting projects that contribute to the development of these areas in Kazakhstan.
she is one of the five best judoists in the world.
the city of Kyzylorda will receive water from this kyzylzharm.
Before the meeting, the head of state invited to discuss topical issues that are being resolved in our clinic.
we adopted a technique that shows our art, examined tanks, studied the route.
According to him, Kazakhstan can compete for the WTO in the mining and metallurgical industry and the electric power industry.
Since March of this year, the association for the development of local security began work.
today we are witnessing a historic event.
From today, we begin the competition of the national brand 2016.
B.Saparbayev noted priority areas of social sphere of the region and discussed topical issues of the region.
The main tasks of military observers in accordance with the UN mandate are to organize and conduct ground and air patrols, a night observation post, collect and evaluate the information received, monitor compliance and implementation of signed agreements, as well as identify violations in the area of ​ ​ responsibility.
the ferry complex, capable of passing four million tons of cargo per year, transports consumer goods, grain, petroleum products, liquefied gas, fertilizers and other goods.
The basis of the company's activity is the production of polyethylene films, the production of all-wheel drive polyethylene and polypropylene boxes.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that the exhibition will be filled with content corresponding to the declared topic.
The Secretary of State suggested using the Astana Economic Forum as an international platform for discussing the advancement of women in the economic sphere.
these three words reflect our main value - multinational, multinational popular unity.
in the future, the state's share in joint ventures will be ipo. "
Charity events are planned before the event. charity events are planned in anticipation of the wonderful holiday - muz-tv .
I think that we will cope without problems with the load on our heads and achieve even greater success, "he said.
In general, knauf is constantly reinvesting and is ready to attract additional investments to expand activities in Kazakhstan.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev set this task in August last year during a working trip to Almaty region.
the parties discussed a number of issues for the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
The Government has therefore taken a number of systemic measures.
The event was attended by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, RGP "Public Consent," state bodies, methodologists and teachers of the friendship house, representatives of Sunday schools of ethnocultural associations and other spheres.
In turn, according to the Mayor's Office of the city, technical and economic developments have been prepared, two such zones will be created.
As a result of close cooperation and fruitful negotiations with foreign partners in relevant areas, 44 bilateral interstate agreements in the field of criminal proceedings were concluded, including Spanish, Italian, Chinese, Hungarian and Canadian.
It was also noted that in 2012, the Minister of Agriculture, Akimats of the regions, "Kazagro" ubh "ak and" Kazagronovation "signed a memorandum for 2012-2016 on the diversification of the structure of crops.
At the same time, in the event of resettlement to the regions established by the government, conditions will be created for oralmans, "said the Vice Minister of Health and Potential Development of Kazakhstan during the presentation of the bill.
Polish, German, Chinese and other operator companies may become members of the association.
according to the results of this report, Kazakhstan rose by 8 positions compared to the results of last year's rating and took 42nd place in the ranking among 140 countries.	thus , kazakhstan has made a big leap , having increased its rating by 8 points in comparison with last year .	0,91
At the same time, we do not expect a decrease in investor interest or their decrease, but should be sure that the direction of the tenge exchange rate in free circulation and the implementation of the new financial and credit policy will make Kazakhstan attractive to investors, "N. Radostovets said.
the youth unemployment rate was 4.1% and decreased by 2.7% compared to the same period last year.
Following the results of the board, the directions of the upcoming work were determined, a number of relevant instructions were given.
we invite all specialists in this field. expo 2017 can be a breakthrough for further development .
unemployed, low-income, self-employed, citizens with disabilities, released from prison and all citizens seeking work are invited to the fair.
issues of mutual information on partial activities, improvement of the legal framework for cooperation.
supplies goods as soon as possible in a "door-to-door" order in accordance with the established schedule of their sale within 14-15 days.
all initiatives and developments clearly set out Kazakhstan's contribution to the security council.
he spoke about the history of the district, culture and ethnography, and also thanked the expedition members for their desire to study the historical monuments of the district of Magzhan Zhumabaev.
if there is an formed constitution, then our country will develop according to the same laws as our country, "he said.
a percentage contribution to subsidies from second-tier banks, "the report said.
they are from regional commands, types and genera of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, structural units of the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, military institutions and the cadet corps of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In such advanced countries as Italy, Spain, France, the mechanism for reviewing cases is called cassation, "said a.rachmetulin.
at the same time, the head of state drew attention to the fact that the capital has every chance of becoming a diplomatic hub in our region.
If you look at the surrounding surfaces, notice the proteins. everywhere , on the surface you can see round spots .
The total cost of the project is 197 million dollars.
The institution employs 8 employees with 7 staff units.
During the visit, it is planned to visit a number of enterprises in the region, as well as hold meetings with the participation of akims of Atyrau, Mangistau and West Kazakhstan regions.
The press conference will be attended by First Deputy Akim of Astana Sergey Khoroshun, Director of the capital city chamber of entrepreneurs of Tasmagambets and Executive Director of the Kazakhstan Association of Architects of Taslan Tukiev.
a company of honor guard of airmobile troops of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in this large-scale army event from Kazakhstan.
while performing the tasks of creating lanes and milk receiving points, fattening grounds, "the Governor of the region said.
The purpose of the meeting is to optimize the volume of local content at the exhibition, actively involving Pavlodar enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses of the region in the expo-2017 project.
our president with his internal and external politicians makes our country the most tolerant, open, hospitable people in the world, "said Z. Abuldinov.
the document provides for the improvement of mutually beneficial partnership between the two countries in the field of renewable energy sources.
to get a good product, we not only use modern technologies, but also strictly observe the system of work, "said Rishat Akhmadiyev.
it is very close for us, for a bank developing innovative technologies, and we intend to actively start developing the main idea of ​ ​ the exhibition, "said Magzhan Auezov, chairman of the board of Kazkommertsbank.
preventing drug use and combating illicit trafficking is one of the most important areas of state policy in the republic.
in addition, the Minister reported on the ongoing reforms in the field of geology and subsoil use and noted the importance of participating in the reforms, using the global experience of the company itself as rio tinto.
In particular, agreements were concluded between the Professional holding in the field of technical and vocational education organizations and colleges-partners in the development of these colleges.
they are designed for combat use in crisis situations and are able to solve combat missions in various military conflicts in scale as soon as possible.
we conducted a sociological survey among users of the services of the courts of Kazakhstan. we have conducted an independent survey .
because it is very important to prepare specialists for the implementation of all these projects.
The club of the Aruli Council works to form the spiritual values ​ ​ of the family among students of universities and colleges.
It is worth noting that in order to solve the problem of emergency housing, the construction of two multi-storey buildings has begun as part of a pilot project through a public-private partnership.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan wished that the cosmonaut's expedition to the international space station was successful and all the tasks assigned to it were completed.
The purpose of the forum is to promote energy-saving technologies - a presentation of domestic and foreign enterprises for the production of equipment and technologies, "said E. Islamov.
we must always be sure of our powers.
I believe that this will be a certain measure to reduce the share of state participation, "said M. Mukhanov.
however, we are dynamically developing mechanical engineering, we are producing equipment necessary for the railway and oil and gas industries.
they are the embodiment of a true dream and the desire for constant maturation and creative development.
In addition, there are only two correction offices in the capital, so the issue of transporting children is difficult.
cooperation also contributes to the accelerated resolution of problematic issues, the protection of the rights of individuals and legal entities.
The participants of the world conference expressed interest in promoting multilateral dialogue in the direction of cooperation with Kazakhstan and enhancing the role of women in society.
During the meeting, the sides exchanged views on the prospects of cooperation between the two countries in the trade, economic, investment and tourism spheres.
the top three also included 6 countries in Asia - Hong Kong (7), Qatar (14), Taiwan (15), baa (17), Malaysia (18), Saudi Arabia (25), South Korea (26), China (28).
the French Republic was the first country to appoint a section commissioner.
in particular, a plan of measures aimed at ensuring economic growth in the medium term was discussed, as well as emergency measures of the government and the national bank in the event of a transition to inflation targeting were approved.
In turn, K. Mullashev thanked the head of state for his constant attention and support in the field of art and culture development, and also shared his plans for the future.
According to the director of the pier, at this time a road to the ferry terminal is being built.
In addition, the commander of the Green Country labor detachment turned to young people.
following the results of the meeting, a corresponding protocol was signed.
in particular, Kazakhstan considers it necessary to hold a meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the International Fund for Saving the Island or a water summit with the involvement of major donors and experts.
The head of state constantly warns that reforms are a regular process, the need to work beyond their time, to clearly respond to political, economic, social, even cultural challenges.
We are interested in exchanging experience with the creators of the financial center of the capital.
Recall that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev previously presented 100 concrete steps to implement 5 institutional reforms aimed at ensuring economic growth and industrialization, increasing the country's export potential, as well as ensuring further economic development.
Thanks to the restoration of the currency balance, sales of our cars are growing, "said the Governor of the region.
he also noted the importance of the recent V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions to strengthen dialogue at the international level.
at a short reception after the ceremony, the sultan x. The President of Kazakhstan appealed to Nursultan Nazarbayev with a request to express his respect and gratitude.
aircraft (training subjects) flew from each point of the country along unknown routes to the air defense forces.
Egorovsky warehouses are completing the construction of a 280-seat kindergarten on Yabloko-Ata Street.
This year we plan to attract enterprises as much as possible.
we have already accepted the first group of teachers, "said the director of the Ainash Kasenova branch.
The head of state set the task of actually having a trilingualism, and in this entity this trend will be noticeable, "the Vice Minister emphasized.
already we see positive results of this policy, now our products are in demand.
A fitness club also works on the spot.
The company is the largest and modern for the production of disinfectants in central Asia, as well as one of the largest factories in the CIS.
Special attention was paid to the creation of private proceedings on investment disputes, an international council with the participation of reputable foreign judges and lawyers at the supreme court, as well as an international arbitration center aifc in Astana on Dubai practice.
During the talks, various aspects of cooperation in a multilateral format were discussed, including the prospects for cooperation between the CIS countries, Shu, Anshka, as well as issues of resolving the Afghan problem.
As previously reported, the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Chemical and Biological Direction was opened in Almaty.
In particular, Chairman of the Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the CIS member states, Chairman of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation V.matvienko, Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation o.yu. with the Golodets, Vice-Speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia e.m.nagdalian, Deputy Chairman of the National Assembly of Vietnam tong thi fong and Vice-Speaker of Tajikistan yusufi khairiniso.
According to N.Nazarbayev, thirdly, the design of the space system of scientific and technological applications was carried out in Kazakhstan.
I encourage French companies to work closely with Baiterek Holding.
to provide financial support, all work will be carried out on the principle of one window, "he said.
teams of Greco-Roman wrestling: the first place - South Kazakhstan region, the second place - Aktobe region, the third place - Karaganda region.
this book is my gift for you!
the document is aimed at regulating the provision of mutual legal assistance in criminal cases by the competent authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Italian Republic, the report said.
r.gasanov congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev and the people of Kazakhstan on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and noted that this holiday is common for the whole Turkic world.
But, despite this, all the power plants in the country are operating on schedule, nothing difficult arises.
According to him, users of altel operators can use this service from mid-August, negotiations are currently underway with other operators.
One of these enterprises - Glass House LLC - is engaged in the processing of window products.
there are such projects, but they are not enough.
During the meeting, members of the working groups made presentations on the ongoing activities of the national commission.
In July, a 48-apartment building will be commissioned.
Nevertheless, there are problems in the region.
In the period from June 1 to September 30 this year, law enforcement efforts will be aimed not only at combating drug traffickers and drug traffickers, but also at identifying and holding accountable citizens involved in the cultivation of karasor, "said S. Susetov.
state support for the manufacturing industry - agribusiness 2020. "
The events organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in China were attended by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the PRC cheng goping, the former Deputy Permanent Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the PRC tien zengpei, the first Ambassador of the PRC to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, it improves its activities and improves the quality of services provided in the field of classification, certification and technical control.
A coordinating council of prosecutors general of CIS member countries will also be held today.
this issue determines further price orientation for Kazakhstan corporate issuers.
According to him, the holding in April of this year in the capital of the XXI session "Eternal Country: one country is one destiny" confidently proved that the idea of ​ ​ peace and harmony for the people of Kazakhstan is one of the main values ​ ​ on the way to creating the eternal state "Eternal Country."
they themselves, biochemical examination of blood, ecotherapy, echo, a large number of medicines.
Thus, in the formation of the new appearance of the city, special attention is paid to the issues of ecology, the development of the city's streets and roads, taking into account the growth of the population, the development of the economy, and the emergence of new industries.
Industry and other basic industries should avoid modern demand for the production of products, we are striving for this today, "the akim said.
passenger turnover amounted to 143.9 billion pkm and increased by 3.2%.
I wanted him to go straight into the corn atmosphere. i 'd like the audience on its way fall into the atmosphere of egypt .
K. Tokayev expressed the intention of the Senate to intensify parliamentary cooperation with Singapore, and also informed about the law adopted by the upper house of parliament on the creation of the international financial center "capital."
The head of state in the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" paid great attention to housing for those in need.
According to him, "the implementation of the nation's plan -" 100 steps "- is the unity of the people.
He called for full use of the new opportunities of the Kazakh-Mexican trade and economic cooperation in the context of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union and Latin American integration associations.	he called for full use of the new possibilities of the kazakh-mexican trade and economic cooperation in the context of the functioning of the eurasian economic union and the integration associations in latin america .	0,91
this is our destiny.	this great country - the cradle of the multi-ethnic state ,  president said .
domestic and external markets.
uranium is produced by underground leaching.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the construction of the museum, friendship house and architectural structures dedicated to the anniversary, as well as the improvement of a number of city squares and streets.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan also took part in the meeting.
According to the Vice Minister, the Russian side will install a special installation in Kazakhstan by the end of the year - this is the last device.
According to the minister, social targeted assistance will be fixed depending on the income of the family.
little has been done to implement this investment form of court work, "A. Kasenova said.
According to the committee, today national statistics have reached a qualitatively new level according to international standards and foreign experience.
Representatives of more than 80 delegations arrived to strengthen economic relations between China and Kazakhstan under the leadership of the Chief Ambassador of China to Kazakhstan Zhang Wei.
natural gas production amounted to 10.7% and amounted to 756.2 million cubic meters, "the report said.
with the further growth of gross anka products, the volume of state subsidies allowed for the development of the agricultural industry will also increase, "added Zh.Aitzhanov.
At a meeting of the General Assembly, President of Kazakhstan Barack Obama called on government and non-governmental organizations to do everything possible to combat violent extremism, "he said.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the anniversary should be held without extra costs in the current difficult economic conditions, but so qualitatively that it remains in the memory of the people.
As of October 26 of this year, pensions and benefits have been assigned to 2134 applicants.
the factory voltage class is 6-10 kV, with a capacity of 25-2500 sq.m.
The machine-building complex of Kazakhstan should become the locomotive of the industrial and innovative transformation of the country's economy, "said B. Sagintayev.
Khan Tent is the most wooden building in the world, the largest entertainment center in central Asia.
In general, for the development of production, investors only benefit from changing the tenge exchange rate, "he said. joyful.
the heating season began on October 15, only in southern Kazakhstan as planned on November 1. the heating season has started in the country on 15 october in accordance with our plan .
I am on behalf of the largest plant in Kazakhstan for the production of steel doors and fire fighting structures. i represent the largest plant in kazakhstan for production of steel doors and fire designs .
This law specifies a list of documents that can be privatized.
in the program - the music of the Finnish composer jan sibelius.
on cooperation between the Singapore Aviation Academy and the Kazaeronavigation Russian State Enterprise (vocational training center) to train specialists in the aviation industry and improve their specialty.
In addition, each region organizes a fair, an exhibition of works by craftsmen.
we have changed the conditions for this program, that is, we attract high-quality developers so that housing is of high quality.
Recall that large-scale international competitions 2015 intelligence groups for special purposes this year are held for the eighth time.
the implementation of the fourth institutional reform is fully entrusted to the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan. the assembly of people of kazakhstan was instructed to implement the fourth institutional reform .
According to the ministry, the employment of the unemployed and self-employed population in rural areas amounted to more than 866 thousand people, of which 140 thousand were unemployed, 726 were self-employed.
Experts were also interested in issues of further economic development of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that participants must ride 15 kilometers by bicycle.
therefore, it all depends on separate work between each university and production.
Of course, there are difficulties now.
This forum is very unusual, it takes place in the year of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the country and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
however, there are a number of problems in this matter.
Recall that the national competition "Mereili Recesses" is held two years in a row on behalf of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Thus, it will increase every year and, as time goes, it will be available to the neighbor of model universities, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
The eeo agreement pays special attention to energy. the eaeu agreement pays special attention to the energy power .
24.3% of enterprises are in construction, 22.1% are in trade, other services account for 15.3%.
due to deteriorating market conditions, the state of the country's budget, as well as lower prices for our main export products. due to the deteriorating of market conditions , the state budget , as well as lower prices for our main export products , it is necessary to introduce a general savings .
According to him, from the moment the President of the Russian Federation signed the anti-terrorism strategy until 2025, 10 federal laws were adopted in 2014.
currently north-south, "said Mamin.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meeting the parties discussed the prospects and the current state of Kazakh-Hong Kong cooperation.
In this regard, on the basis of the constitutional law, the code of ethics of judges, citizens can apply to the necessary bodies in connection with the activities of judges. "
to send a parcel or a letter, you need to arrive at the department inside the station, "explained Aziz Bayram, head of the press service.
We have concrete-forming workers who pour concrete and reinforcement. in general there are concrete workers , molders .
it is necessary to work with entrepreneurs under the kindergarten program, especially in terms of opening private kindergartens.
the mediation process will be free, "he said.
According to him, it was decided to equate domestic products with the price of the Russian Federation, imported goods became cheaper after the fall of the ruble.
As the deputy noted, in our country equal attention is paid to representatives of all nationalities.
revenues of enterprises from the provision of postal and courier services amounted to 3119.1 million tenge, which is 2.5 times higher than the level of the corresponding period of the last year.
it is also important, it has a unifying power, "said O. Selteev.
According to customs authorities, trade between Kazakhstan and Serbia is constantly growing. moreover , serbia supported kazakhstan 's bid to sit on the un security council in 2017-2018 , " he added .
this district was located within the city of Uralsk on the territory of the West Kazakhstan region.
According to the expert, Nazarbayev is doing everything to ensure that world and traditional religions make certain statements about what is happening in the world.
about half of them are for exploration work conducted by foreign investors, "said A. Issekeshev.
and also regarding the regulation of the breeding system. In the section "On breeding livestock" and on reducing the VAT return period from 1 year to 1 quarter for procurement organizations and removing restrictions on the presence of agricultural land from cooperatives when applying a special tax regime, amendments and additions will be made to the draft laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state regulation of the development of the agro-industrial complex and rural territories."
125 points - 1: Erdos gulnaz zhandoskovna: classical Kazakh gymnasium No. 45, Taraz (2014 - 1).
The sides also discussed such areas of cooperation as the transfer of modern search and intelligence technologies, as well as the training of Kazakh specialists.
To participate in the competition, our family collected all the necessary documents, photographs from the archive, the achievements of our children, "said the captain of the Kazakhstan national team, Daniyar Eleusinov and the father of the professional gardener Dauren Eleusins.
The head of state noted that France is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan, today our countries have established a full understanding on economic and political issues.
there is a struggle between the crews, everyone is making efforts to fight for the title of best at these army games, "said Major General Dmitry Gorbatenko, chief referee of the international army games.
The Head of State drew attention to the fact that Kyrgyzstan is led by a.atambayev. shows a steady pace of development.
The event was attended by the Minister of Internal Affairs, Colonel General Kalmukhanbet Kassymov, the Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard, Lieutenant General Ruslan Zhaksylykov, leaders and representatives of the executive authorities, the veteran community and the leadership of the High Command of the National Guard.
to attract transit and foreign trade goods, a single competitive railway tariff is introduced and universal road traffic technology is used.
our partners - antitrust groups of the Republic of Armenia are currently doing a lot of work.
today we see that extremism leads to a wide spectrum. today we see that extremism is manifested in the world .
freedom of speech, if there is opinion, information, exchange. if there will be exchange of views and information , freedom of expression .
the enterprise can simultaneously receive and process cereals and oilseeds.
Rescuers Day is a day of gratitude to all citizens who contributed to the rescue service, "Deputy Interior Minister Vladimir Bozhko said at the ceremony.
According to the minister, an agreement was reached on a tariff quota for meat.
According to the results of the game, all its participants received incentive prizes.
A working group with the participation of leading domestic and international experts has done systematic work on the analysis of the entire international review to date, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
At the end of the year, the region ranks third in the country in terms of socio-economic development, such a result is expected this year, "he said. Ilmukhanbetova.
The goal of creating a friendship garden is to strengthen partnership and develop recreation places for residents and guests of the city during the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
General Director of patria pilot training of the company Micco Paronen noted the strategic nature of interaction with Kazakhstan and expressed deep interest in further cooperation in the field of training.
It is worth noting that this initiative was supported by the Nur Otan party.
meetings are also planned with the President of Russia Vladimir Putin, as well as the leadership of the Sverdlovsk region and the Ural Federal University.
the President stressed that in recent years there has been a sharp deterioration in the world economy.
According to him, the statements of entrepreneurs go through Ukrainian.
According to the commercial director of the company, adele dauletbekova, "qazaq air," together with a white audit, examined the Taldykorgan airport.
on the third floor there is a historical museum of the capital.
To date, the partnership is on the tax register of the district, the enterprise has been allocated a land plot as part of the program for the development of the territory of the Shortandinsky district, all agreed construction documents are ready.
in addition, the most pressing issues on the international agenda were raised.
this competition is held in the republic for three years.
now we urge German investors and entrepreneurs to look for new reserves of bilateral relations. we urge investors and entrepreneurs in germany to seek new provisions in bilateral relations .
According to the Governor's Office of the region, as of July 1, 2015, the number of registered small and medium-sized businesses amounted to 58.0 thousand units, 85.7% of existing facilities.
If akims can attract local investments, especially in agriculture, mobilize business citizens, the issues of opening farms, dairy farms, fattening grounds, and increasing the potential of meat exports will be resolved.
change of course occurs as the course weakens and strengthens. change of the currency rate will occur in both directions the loosening and in the direction of strengthening .
in addition, some projects that are not in the active base, that is, do not affect investment activities, are deducted at a later date, "said B. Baisengaliev.
Kazakhstan is providing comprehensive support to stabilize Afghanistan.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked for the high award and noted the importance of further development of cooperation.
there are also legal bills.
First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan R. Zhoshybayev.
The inspection of the 5th and 6th 75-apartment residential buildings was also carried out.
The concept of the program is developed taking into account the experience of existing support programs in countries such as France, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, New Zealand, "said K. Tuleushin.
True, there were mistakes, maybe there was not enough experience, maybe it was incorrectly calculated, but I can't deny that a lot of work was completed, "the expert said.
according to the minister, the principles of yellow pages are the lack of other opportunities to ensure the national security of the state, defense ability or protection of the interests of society, the use and maintenance of strategic objects of state property, the implementation of activities in areas classified as a state monopoly, the state's withdrawal from this sector with at least one competitor from private business structures.
The meeting will summarize the preliminary work on the choice of students to universities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
As follows from the message, all launches of unmanned aerial vehicles should be coordinated with the competent authorities.
According to the results of 2014, Kazakhstan took 28th place out of 193 countries of the world in the rating of the level of development of electronic government of the UN, "he said.
the parties discussed organizational issues and the relevant agreement.
in accordance with this master plan, the gendos street, Abay avenue, ulukbek, zhubanov, tole bi, the road from momyshula to the city border will be reconstructed.
City Day was a special holiday for us, and it will remain.
financing bank - RBC Bank JSC.
firstly, it should be noted that the order concerns trucks, cars and buses. it is necessary , to note that the order concerns trucks , cars and buses .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the availability of the necessary potential to continue joint work, noting that the country will continue to create unique conditions for investors.
Kazakhstan and Canada have many similar lands, including economic structures and any threats of the two countries against the backdrop of international volatility.
One of the most difficult elements here is the 25-meter "manual suspension," water resistance and the passage of the mine site.
In particular, to date, joint work has begun on long-term financing of two large-scale projects.
this task belongs to the future generation.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan pays great attention to the development of cooperation with Japan.
if we remove the proton, then the cosmodrome will be closed, "said T. Musabaev.
today graduates pass the test, and if they do not agree with the decision of the commission, they can appeal.
According to the Vice President, in accordance with the agreement between the Kazakh enterprise and the Azerbaijani railway, the plant sends two locomotives to Baku every month.
ratification of the instrument forms an effective interaction between the judicial and other state bodies of the States parties to the convention, simplifies and reduces the time frame for the submission of judicial documents and extrajudicial documents.
To continue this potential, we need to seize the various opportunities of the economy.
heads of state bodies selected from among foreign managers will be selected by the national commission on personnel policy and based on the results of inspections, "he said.
According to Kazagro, in addition, the Harvest-2015 program will be introduced to help farmers conduct a harvesting campaign to obtain domestic combines of domestic production on preferential terms.
At the Academy in the leaders of the world, together with the business school of said Oxford University (sbs), an 18-month special program for leadership in project management is being implemented.
this memorandum provides for the construction and modernization of a dairy farm for 1000 cattle of Kirov LLP.
today we have concluded an agreement with India on important industries, "K. Massimov said.
The program is also aimed at creating and implementing projects in the field of historical and cultural heritage, introducing modern technologies and developing international tourism.
As of October 1, 2015, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises operating on the market increased by 9.4% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 98,736 units, including 25,397 legal entities, 7,3332 individual entrepreneurs and 7 peasant farms.
I think that today's event will help find important proposals and meaningful solutions, "the report said.
The Russian Federation also sent its congratulations to the governor of the Astrakhan region a.g., the governor of the Chelyabinsk region b.dubrovsky, the governor of the Kaliningrad region n.sukanov, the governor of the Orenburg region, noting the great experience and high authority of Nursultan Nazarbayev, who helps the head of state with constant success to fulfill large-scale tasks for the benefit of the people of Kazakhstan.
in this regard, we are developing partnerships.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, high prices are worthy only of measures aimed at strengthening business ties and attracting investment.
Also in the city, work is underway on watering flower beds, plastering roads, planting trees.
The meeting discussed the results of decisions taken in recent years in the cultural, humanitarian, educational, social spheres and outlined priority areas of cooperation in the near future.
education in three languages: Kazakh, Russian, English.
for me, premonition is a sacred concept, e. Tarasenko.
The Minister presented the winners of the competition with the medal "Best Teacher."
The event will be attended by the director of the expert institute of European law and human rights, doctor of law marat bashimov.
During the holiday, its participants competed in drafts, chess, created drawings in the form of a capital, competed in craft skills.
The 8-apartment residential building "Zarechny" was restored on its own.
now this issue is also being resolved.
safety of products of the main postulate included in the document. the basic point of the draft is the products safety .
this is the best result of Kazakhstan in the history of participation in the ranking of the competitiveness index.
at the first stage, companies with high characteristics were selected for participation in the program in terms of annual revenue, number of jobs, average revenue growth and export share.
the parties organize the most favorable conditions for investors.
opening of command and staff training under the chairmanship of Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Karpovich Bozhko m.h. at Taraz State University named after Dulati.
During the meeting, Abdikalikova noted that relations between Kazakhstan and Great Britain are dynamically developing in all key areas, and expressed confidence that the strategic partnership between our countries will reach a new high-quality level in the near future.
As S. Nurtayev noted, Greece is a geographically convenient country for establishing ties with Kazakhstan.
In this regard, the head of state invited cnpc to take an active part in the work of the international financial center, which is planned to be created in the capital.
it symbolizes the past and present, the future of our Motherland. this name reflects the past , the present , and the future .
a special form of accounting for monitoring includes the activities of natural monopolies in the field of transportation, distribution and distribution of oil and petroleum products, electricity, railway transportation/railway networks, the report said.
if Kazakhstani entrepreneurs do not strive for world standards, they lose income, but this does not mean that we must weaken our entrepreneurs, "said T.Mirzakov.
we intend to expand cooperation with your states and organizations.
Note that the "station service" is the national operator of white Kazakhstan railway stations.
this principle never yields results. no industrial policy - no demand for skilled labor .
wheat supplied to consumers is grown mainly by agricultural products of the republic in the regions of akmola, kostanay, northern Kazakhstan.
in the nomination "dombra" - Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, professor, artistic director and chief conductor of the orchestra of Kazakh folk instruments of the state academic philharmonic.
The II republican seminar-meeting of regional oncologists and mammologists of Kazakhstan is an important event for domestic specialists in the regions.
At the moment, Marubeni has two offices: a harassan project office in Almaty and an energy and chemical design office with branches in Almaty and the capital.
Currently, in the village of Zhanakorgan, work has been completed on the external fencing of the "automated gas distribution station" (agts) and the foundations are completely flooded.
During the conversation, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of mutual cooperation.
The general director of the management company airportmanagementgroup noted that feces are an increase in traffic to the priorities of world practice, a high level of service and flight safety.
among the brook countries, China still held the highest positions (28; 0 ) .
in addition, the scope of the measure of conciliation and pre-trial settlement will be expanded. reconciliation will be carried out not only by mediators but also by judges of the first appellate court , and lawyers - the head of state has said .
we are making every effort to prepare for the games, "said S. Mukhin.
At the same time, he noted that Kazakhstan is one of the ten fastest growing economies in the world.
This was the first festival "Hello from the stage."
in this regard, microbusiness development is an urgent issue.
Nuclear-free disarmament is one of the main topics that is raised at expert meetings, "said E. Karin.
In 2013-2014, 7.2 billion tenge was allocated for the development of single-industry towns, 1380 microcredits and 283 grants were issued, 346 projects were allocated for subsidizing, infrastructure of 22 business facilities was carried out in 12 single-industry towns, the Minister said.
According to Tsybulnik, Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus set the task of updating the fleet of freight cars, since today they are worn out.
Construction work is planned to be completed by the end of the year.
The decisive direction of the launched project is water resources.
on the contrary, it contributes to the active renewal of blood, improvement of the cardiovascular system and internal organs.
There are bedrooms, two gyms, a dining room for 50 people and a bathhouse for our athletes.
The first stopped object of the head of the region was the Abykhan peasant farm, which actively began cleaning hay.
Today, residents of Kostanay, Aktobe, Almaty and Pavlodar cities receive apartments with you, "said the mayor.
currently, there is little need for farmers to travel to Canada, Australia, Holland and other lands and import livestock from abroad. at the moment farmers no longer need to go and bring the cattle from abroad from canada , australia , holland and so on .
The press conference was attended by figures from a number of prominent political and business circles in Lebanon and representatives of the media, the report said.
new information was obtained about architecture, funerary architecture and worldview.
It is worth noting that new products of scientists will go on sale from next year.
we must live up to the hopes of the parents of the children, of society as a whole. we must do everything possible to meet the high expectations of children , parents and society as a whole !
finished products are stored in a refrigerator in a warehouse.	fish processing plant  kyzylorda balyk " llp exists since july , 2011 .
Of course, we have achieved this thanks to the unique qualities of each member State of the Council.
training is carried out by experienced court chairmen and prosecutors, "the report said.
According to him, the Turkish ethnocultural center is working on the introduction of the state language.
our people should know the current situation, our enterprises may have reduced incomes, reduced incomes and reduced jobs.
a noble state, an aristocratic society are fundamental values, which are reflected in the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
Three of us have been singing poetry on stage since the age of 5, "he explained.
members of the EAEU are the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic (the process of ratifying the contract on its accession to the EU is underway) and the Russian Federation.
On the agenda of the regional forum were the deputy of the regional maslikhat, the winner of muhambetpaizov, the chairman of the public association of the military-patriotic club "Men's Happiness," a veteran of the Afghan war marat koylybayev, an active member of the youth public association "Young Power" Daniyar Izbasarov and a representative of the Aktobe regional Ukrainian Ukrainian national-cultural center "oksana" veronion "zuckachek.
it is expected to increase the share of innovative products inside the wool to 2.5%, "said L.Sadykov.
As the recent meeting in the capital proves, in recent years our cooperation has gained momentum and reached the level of strategic partnership. it is encouraging that over the years , our cooperation has become more intense , and reached the level of strategic partnership .
This will be a highlight of the country's museum industry, "said Mr. Akhmediyarova.
According to Akim Sko, this year the volume of exports to Russia may increase compared to last year.
In addition, the production of equipment and electrical equipment of the mining and oil industries and other products with high added value will be implemented, "the deputy mayor of Almaty said.
President of the Kazakh Academy of Nutrition thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his concern about the socio-economic issues of the country's development, the adoption and implementation of state programs.
Adilbek Jaksybekov warned about the development of the infrastructure of the first industrial park of the capital.
This project is implemented within the framework of the memorandum of understanding in the field of geological research and exploration of subsoil.
classes were held on the basis of the training center of the military institute.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the way to advance cooperation between maize and Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture.
the global financial model can undergo changes, "he added.
I want to support the development of science.
this festival was conceived in order to show the comprehensiveness and creativity of our youth, "said the organizer of the astana art fest festival, Major Izmailova.
according to him, they popularize their ideas of destruction and intensify information propaganda in order to find among youth those who support them.
During these years, our Government and experts worked to achieve favorable conditions for our country.
he considered the establishment of a State through the unification of a person to be an important event.
on the expected results of this work - online on proposals for identifying unclaimed functions, limiting duplicate functions and transferring some functions to the business sector.
The first section of the triptych "The M G_l_k Ate" is based on images kerey and the khans who created the Kazakh khanate.
During the meeting, the Grodno governor and the akim of the region tentatively agreed on the creation of a branch of the Lidselmash holding, engaged in assembly production.
On the initiative of the Department of Public Service Affairs of the city of Kokshetau, within the framework of the month "Test of the Leader of the Nation - the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the passing of tests for the Day of the State Worker began.
About 100 Kazakhstani companies are registered in this country.
As part of this event, we received many new ones and gained a lot of experience in deep relations.
this integration is a response to the global trials we are seeing.
youth are the basis of our future, "the head of state said.
It was emphasized that the leadership of Kazakhstan pays special attention to the preparation of "expo-2017."
I am sure that the Ukrainian side will continue to increase business ties. i believe the ukrainian colleagues will make every effort to strengthen business ties .
As a result of the raid, carried out jointly by the employees of the State Unitary Enterprise Irgiz-Turgai State Natural Reserve, the district prosecutor's office, the Department of Internal Affairs and the inspectors of Okhotzooprom, six residents of the Kyzylorda region, carrying two toyota land crusier cars, were detained at the site of the "flag."
operations in the center have also become a large image project of Kazakhstan, but most importantly, they save the lives of many people, "the head of state said.
Within 5 days Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan project groups of the World Bank, leading international experts of Canada, Finland, Spain and other countries will discuss all 7 project compositions.
Tsacheva spoke about her intention to place a private exposition of Bulgaria at the international exhibition Expo-2017, which will contribute to strengthening trade and economic cooperation with Kazakhstan.
On the instructions of the Head of State in the manufacturing industry at the expense of the National Fund on 12,11,2015 conditions, 1,131 projects worth 199.77 billion tenge were financed with a rate of 6% per annum.
it is important to create a single list of terrorist organizations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
over the past ten years, as a result of targeted work, more than $200 billion of direct investment has been attracted to Kazakhstan, "he added.
For the impeccable and exemplary fulfillment of the requirements for military overseers in the performance of a peacekeeping mission, officers were awarded UN medals.
Recall that in early September of this year, Baiterek Holding and the Chinese Bank signed a memorandum of cooperation providing for the consideration of opportunities for cooperation on investment projects.
the exhibition organized within the framework of the forum will present technological developments of Kazakhstan and Iranian companies.
In addition, the Governor noted that appropriate conditions have been created for the implementation of new projects, a number of legislative measures have been taken to support investors.
In December, the President of Kazakhstan will take part in the summit on climate issues in Paris, and I think this is a great opportunity to promote the Expo, "he added.
in the first blast furnace he participated in the casting of the first cast iron of Kazakhstan, and I know how much effort was spent at that time. i know firsthand how much work was invested , as i participated in the casting of the first kazakhstan iron at the first blast furnace .
Thus, investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and Ukraine are presented.
at the first stage in Kazakhstan, elite meat cattle of high productivity were brought from abroad for hybridization and breeding of livestock.
The President of Azerbaijan stressed that bilateral relations are based on full understanding, noting that brotherly Kazakhstan is always with great desire.
this year there is a fundamental change in the clan support system.
we have had very productive negotiations, and we are well aware of the possibilities of two areas.
According to the employees of Themis, it is envisaged to separate the institute of justice from the structure of public administration under the President of Kazakhstan.
now cadets are studying in the 3rd year of the Military Institute of Ground Forces with a degree in command tactical motorized rifle forces.
Within the framework of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, it is noted that the Assembly is not only a unique institution in Kazakhstan, but also far beyond its borders. within the anniversary of kazakhstan people 's assembly it is strongly noticeable that the assembly is a unique institution not only in kazakhstan , but also abroad .
actual wool growth due to state business support measures amounted to 35.6% (instead of the planned 38.4%), the manufacturing industry began to grow intensively (in the manufacturing sector the share of production was 22.8%, and in the mining sector - 20.4%).
legalization of property and capital is beneficial both for citizens of the country and for the economy of Kazakhstan.
our global community is threatened by brute forces that pursue religious divisions. our global community is threatened by the aggressive forces aimed at religious differences .
for the first time, an intellectual contest "young expert" was held, in which our children became the first.
During the meeting, representatives of other law enforcement and special authorities present familiarized the guests with the activities of their departments.
agricultural producers of aktobe regions, South Kazakhstan and Almaty cities became the best in their category.
Minister of Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev stressed the important role in the formation of the domestic innovation cluster.
the report was approved by the resolution of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
It was these words of the President of Kazakhstan that served as the basis for the appointment of this award in a wide range.
According to the chief referee of competitions, the referee of the international class Bauyrzhan Shadraimov, this competition is a test of the modern state of Kazakhstan national team, created from young men of 2000-2001 year of birth.
at the same time, only 15-20% of housing will be built at the expense of the budget. however , only 15-20 % of housing is introduced at the expense of the state budget .
he told the audience about the ultrasonic architecture of the capital, conceived by leading architects of our time.
At the end of the meeting, representatives of state bodies participating in the event expressed confidence that new types of online information services will be expanded.
diaspora leaders decide who to send. the head of the diaspora will decide whom to send .
we would like to cooperate with Japan in this area.
The main thing is not only the production of products, but also its trade. the main thing is not only to produce , but also to realize .
according to him, this requires the agribusiness industry, in which Kazakhstan should grow.
The Emergency Committee has become my family, friend and pride for me. the committee of emergency situations has become my family , friends , pride .
During the measures to optimize sowing structures, oilseeds were planted at 240.9 thousand hectares, which is 105.8 thousand hectares less than last year.
not in religion, but in politics.
We are also partners in the transport project between members of the Eurasian Union and the western and eastern bridge, "K. Massimov said.
It is important that graduates of the program now gain experience in the necessary areas.
Within the framework of the conference, a photo exhibition was organized on the topic of the history of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Law on the Father of Kazakhstan.
all our civil servants were involved in the program, could study remotely, "he said.
today our main goal is to attract the public and experts to work with the "100 steps."
In the future, we will strive to reduce the time frame than today, "said the news agency.
In total, 1 thousand 748 people, 308 pieces of equipment and 3 helicopters were involved in emergency rescue operations.
A feature of the holiday this year is that all events will be held on an open platform, which will give everyone a festive mood that does not exceed the number of spectators, "he said.
The meeting also discussed issues of cooperation in the field of industry and agro-industrial complex within the framework of the union, deepening Armenia's ties with the eurozone countries, as well as aspects of the transition to a coherent industrial policy within the framework of national industrial policies and the union based on the priority areas currently being developed in the field of industrial cooperation.
The Customs and Border Service of the Ministry of Internal Security of Kazakhstan is very cautious about this issue. customs and border protection department of homeland security of the usa is committed to this task .
simple letters are sent without a track number in many countries and are not controlled by information systems. there are simple letters without track number , it is impossible to track them in the information systems .
The first President of the Republic of Bashkortostan, Chairman of the Board of the Ural Charitable Foundation M.Rakhimov drew attention to the fact that the way of life of Nursultan Nazarbayev is an example of dedication and sincere love for his people.
Currently, 6 schools worth 11 billion tenge were repaired, the average repair of 40 streets was carried out, 50 masts of street lighting were changed, 2.5 km of electric networks were produced, 8 transformer substations were repaired, 3 new wells were dug, 5 reservoirs of drinking water were cleaned, and most importantly, a master plan for the development of the March district was drawn up.
According to the information center, as part of the event, the ensemble of the Kazyna friendship house organized a concert where the gathered military citizens and young readers of the library performed.
the unprecedented formula of eeo, shu and brix is a sign of the unity and solidarity of the vast majority of the world's population on the road to cooperation for security and prosperity. the eaeu , sco and brics serve for the unity and solidarity of the largest part of the population , for the security and prosperity , " - the president of kazakhstan concluded .
in the nomination "best food products": "island salt" with a diploma of i degree; with a diploma of the II degree of LLP "Brownis"; awarded a diploma of the III degree by the Zhk "casbergens."
Currently, design and estimate documentation has been developed, state expertise will be carried out by the end of the year and construction work will begin.
This is a job next month, "he said.
this is an important anniversary of a non-governmental organization.
In the first half of this year, 7,935 thousand citizens who have served their sentences applied to the employment authorities, "said S. Zhakupova.
in turn, a. Ayymbetov expressed gratitude to the president and people for the trust and opportunity to be part of the international crew.
Kazakhstan exports more than 850 items of goods, the bulk of which are sent to Russia, central Asia, Iran and China.
then the fighters, together with the battalion commander, went to the conditional combat area, that is, to the Koktal training center of the military unit 74261, "the report said.
It should be noted that the sarap time expert club is a permanent platform for experts to discuss topical problems on political, economic, social and cultural topics and develop professional solutions and proposals.
they noted the principled positions of their States on this topic and the importance of the event.
additional information is posted on the website of the Kazakh Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that yesterday the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin held a bilateral meeting in the capital, at which they signed a number of documents on expanding the space of cooperation between the two countries.
in our opinion, over the next 3-5 years we live in conditions of low prices for resources and raw materials and exported goods. in our opinion , in the next 3-5 years , we will live in an era of low prices for resources , low commodity prices , our main export products .
As part of the first project, the first private kindergarten in the city will be expanded for 75 places with up to 200 seats.
I myself rested in the camp as a child. being a child , i had never been in the camp .
the next meeting with representatives of the real sector of the economy will be held in the first decade of August.
in addition, the Baiterek holding will consider the possibility of supporting the promotion and sale of cars.
Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom Uak Askar Zhumagaliyev sent his congratulations to the participants and guests of the competition.
B. Saparbayev noted that today in the region there are 15 centers for supporting entrepreneurs, 15 business schools.
the total number of apartments handed over is 7,136.
Your labor exploits entered the creative record of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that the region is actively implementing a state program for the functioning and development of languages.
the quality of training of military personnel depends on the combat training of military units, the intensity of the use of airfields for military purposes.
After the exhibition, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Belarusian holding Belavtodor and the company Kazavtodor.
in turn, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan E.A. idrissov stressed that the program "constructive oral history of the Nan-Lugar program" is implemented in harmony with state bodies and expert communities of Russia and Russia, which are the main partners in promoting Kazakhstan's initiatives in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.
if it were an affordable, convenient installation, then it would be very profitable to use it in areas, "he said.
34,443 objects worth 241.5 billion tenge were legalized.
Recall that the annual national competition "Mereili Rects" was approved by order of the Head of State in order to form moral values ​ ​ and a positive image of marriage and family, to increase the status of the family.
summing up the visit, B. Saparbayev instructed the Governor's Office of the region to constantly monitor the implementation of the memorandum and strengthen the work of the regional and tripartite commissions of the anti-crisis headquarters.
According to the agency, 92.5 thousand sports sections with a coverage of 3.3 million people work in physical education and sports teams, of which 1.6 million are rural residents.
Deputy Prime Minister visited the village of Baiterek, Kyzylzhar district, where he met with residents, answered their questions and got acquainted with the socio-economic development of the region.
women's active participation is observed in small and medium-sized businesses. the active role of women is confirmed by an indicator of the development of small and medium-sized businesses .
he met with representatives of the Council of Veterans of the People's Election, deputies of the regional maslikhat, as well as heads of state institutions.
As noted, # talks2050 is an informal forum in the format of such a conference.
reforms begin with preparation and implementation of the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate".
For all the events held in the three halls of the theater, the hall was filled by 87.5%.
Ayymbetov also turns the horse into the atameken children's village and plants trees with his children.
After years of independence, Kazakhstan experienced a period of spiritual revival. for nearly a quarter century of our independence , kazakhstan has experienced a renaissance of spirituality .
the new future put forward by the president "is nuclear, energy, water and food security, trust, understanding and reform.
It is noted that in remote settlements there is a large-scale construction of a medical outpatient clinic and the construction of facilities as part of the Nұrly zhol program.
According to Ulan Alipov, Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor JSC, the central-eastern project will continue through Pavlodar and Semipalatinsk with a length of 1 thousand 18 km. and the center-west corridor will connect the capital with the western regions of the country.
the growth rate - 133.7% - significantly overtook the indicator of the corresponding period of last year (107.3%).
unemployment during this period decreased in all single-industry towns.
most of the three-year strategy of our community is aimed at employment. most of efforts of our association are aimed at providing employment .
It is worth noting that this year more than 70 events will be held in honor of Capital Day.
Following the discussion, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to the competent State bodies.
Honored Worker of Kazakhstan, writer S. Dosanov, sending greetings, noted the invaluable contribution of the head of state to strengthening the country's independence, increasing the country's prestige in the world.
he was the first Kazakh to make 8 flights into space, with a duration of one trip of about 42 hours. he is the first kazakhstani who committed eight spacewalks with total duration of more than 42 days .
all Almaty schools are equipped with interactive boards.
We thank the head of state for creating an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.	we have everything ,  r. valiyev said .
According to him, as part of the reform of the judicial system, it is planned to expand the area of ​ ​ the court hearing.
accelerated integration processes, including WTO, are under way. we are strengthening the integration processes , including the wto .
It is noted that the investment program in 2015 provides for a number of measures, including: updating old ecage devices (automated system of commercial accounting for electricity), additional stations and separation points, transformer substations, 10 and 0.4 sq cable networks; installation of switching devices.
Kabibullah Jakupov noted the importance of connecting eurozone issues with Chinese initiatives of the "silk road economic belt" and noted its economic effectiveness for all countries of the region.
During the speech at the conference, bakytzhan sagintayev noted that over the past ten years, Kazakhstan has developed a regulatory legal framework for regulating water problems, launched major projects to transition to a "green economy," adopted a state program for managing water resources, and took measures to save the island.
According to him, the basis of the implementation of 5 institutional reforms is the economic growth and development of the country.
the question arises how grants will be provided, "said E. Zhunusov.
According to the deputy director of the RMK of public consent, doctor of philological sciences, professor of gaziz telebayev, all participants are provided with the necessary teaching materials, therefore, one of the important measures following the results of training will be the introduction of new methods in the regions.
joint geological, tectonic and mineralogical maps of Kazakhstan and China have been created, intensive work is underway to link geological maps of adjacent territories.
these are the fruits of our unique tradition, the unity of the people, the veneration of our homeland, the native land of the "great steppe."
According to the head of the Astana office for ecu programs, the equitable distribution and saving of water resources in Central Asia is aggravated by climate change, melting of rinks and depletion of natural resources.
we must build a culture of purity and conscience.
The average monthly salary of one employee for the first quarter of 2015 amounted to 80,980 tenge, compared to the same period of 2014 increased by 21.8%. the average monthly wage per employee was 80,980 tenge , increased by 21.8 % .
economic crime, money-laundering and recovery of criminal assets.
Recall that the III Forum of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan is held in the capital, dedicated to the discussion and development of proposals to increase the competitiveness of machine-building products of Kazakhstan in the conditions of eo and peace.
persons who are completely or partially limited in the possibility of self-care receive medical and rehabilitation services in half-hospital conditions, or are on full state support in medical and social institutions, "he said.
around - the inscription "National Bank of Kazakhstan" in the state language and "national bank of kazakhstan" in English.
the farm has a caterpillar farm, an apple orchard on an area of ​ ​ 150 hectares, a pig farm for 1000 heads.
Reportedly, in order to possess the first and second categories, they had to prove emergency care skills for anaphylactic shock, acute coronary syndrome, sudden cardiac arrest, stagnation of foreign matter in the upper respiratory tract (conicotomy) and basic cardiopulmonary measures.
in this regard, the Attorney General expressed interest in learning from British experience in combating organized crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and extremism.
gross oil revenues declined. there is a very indicative situation in mangistau .
it should be borne in mind that the economic trend we have chosen is long-term, designed for 5-7 years.	besides , k. massimov emphasized that the economic trend is designed for the next 5-7 years .	0,93
During the talks, German parliamentarians noted the level of bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation, the significant dynamics of the visits of the leadership of the two countries and the activities of the parliamentary group of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Germany.	during the talks , the german parliamentarians noted the high level of inter-parliamentary cooperation of kazakhstan and the federal republic of germany , which is expressed in large dynamics of bilateral visits of heads of legislative bodies of the two countries as well as in the activities of the parliamentary groups on bilateral cooperation .	0,93
This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the law, which guarantees stable growth and development of our country.
I am sure that next year Azerbaijanis will consider the possibility of demonstrating the products of their military-industrial complex and give us a new impetus to military-technical cooperation, "said the Tasmagambets imangali.
On 1 September 2014, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Persons with a Residence Permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Oralmans Associated with their Legalization of Property" was signed, and also announced the start of the procedure for legalization of property not in economic circulation.
Prohibition of the division of these persons into nationality, religion, language, language in relation to other characteristics.
r. noted the strengthening and strengthening of bilateral ties based on brotherhood, friendship, cooperation, which began from a common language, culture and mutual trust.
In total, in January 2015, 10,128 people were born in the capital, which is 5.6% more than in the same period last year.
The event was attended by deputies of the Italian parliament, representatives of institutional bodies, well-known legal scholars, politicians and experts, as well as representatives of the Italian garden.
receipt of wages depending on the work done. it is important that wages reflect the amount of work and responsibilities assigned to them .
a memorandum of cooperation was signed as evidence.
therefore, for current cadets who dream of becoming pilots and participating in such international competitions, this meeting is of great importance.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, much depends on the work of the national bank, as well as on the monetary policy of the state.
Attorney General askhat daulbaev congratulated his colleagues on the Constitution Day, noting the historical significance of the law on the way to the formation of independent Kazakhstan, the results of the most important socio-economic and political reforms in the country, the role of the prosecutor's office in ensuring constitutional law and order.
the importance of strengthening and further developing cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe.
he noted that there were no problems with financing, the cost of agreed agreements had not changed.
this document is aimed at increasing bilateral cooperation taking into account the interests of Kazakhstan and Iran.
In addition, it is necessary to constantly increase the research potential of the program and strengthen the training of scientists by introducing innovative programs into the educational process of universities in Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
During this time, employees of the Department of Internal Affairs committed two corruption violations.
invited us to participate in this project, helped to collect documents, and then we felt how much they support us.
This year alone, it is planned to build 2 clinics for 250 visits per shift in Zerendin and Akkozny districts.
all goods circulating on the union market should be safe, even when transporting, storing them, "said Valery Koreshkov, member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission for Technical Regulation.
Participants will travel 15 km by bicycle and run 5 km in a half marathon.
Chairman of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Maulen Ashimbayev, in turn, believes that during the year of implementation of the "beam road," a legislative framework was developed and relevant laws were adopted.
it will reduce freight traffic between China and Europe from 45 to 10 days.
193.3 objects worth 27,043 billion tenge were legalized.
36,747 objects worth 258.4 billion tenge were legalized.
we want to release the 1st set of business cases in Kazakhstan this fall, "said K. Bishimbayev.
this will allow the Union states to develop the agricultural sector, "the statement said.
According to the regional development program, two sports grounds have been created in the village of shortends on the territory of the district house of culture on the territory of the park, on which simulators are installed, one of which is blocked by a special fence.
this is relevant for the armed forces of Kazakhstan, "said the First Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov.
This competition, initiated by the head of state, is of great importance. the significance of this remarkable contest is very , very large .
During the conversation, he elaborated on the specifics of the activities of the Kazakh judicial system, and also spoke about the measures taken to introduce new information technologies into the work of the courts.
In the report, M. Bigeldiev focused on the development of small and medium-sized businesses, tax revenues, preparation for the heating season, etc.
However, we see that only simple monitoring work is the only program under which regular checks are carried out, statistical data are published and reported, and such measures are not provided for other documents, "the political scientist said.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to carry out all finishing work with the maximum use of domestic products in order to optimize costs.
In addition, the Minister of National Economy, Erbolat Dossayev, instructed regional leaders to conduct commodity interventions through stability funds and regularly hold agricultural fairs.
The meeting was attended by members of the commission - representatives of the republican media, creative unions, public associations of journalists and interested state bodies.
practical documents have been adopted that strengthen trade and economic cooperation between the countries, "the expert said.
in this regard, the State provides us with comprehensive assistance.
A large-scale project involving an American company with an investment of $40 million.
According to the results of July 2015, the money supply amounted to 12938.2 billion tenge (from the beginning of the year - an increase of 1.0%), cash in circulation - 1135.3 billion tenge (from the beginning of the year - an increase of 1.2%), deposits in the banking system - 11802.9 billion tenge (from the beginning of the year - an increase of 0.9%).
The formation of the symbols of independent Kazakhstan has become a national event.
According to the head of state, in recent years Kazakhstan, participating in the silk road program, has built high-class roads "Western Europe - Western China" from western Ukraine to the Russian border.
in particular, illegal migration, illicit arms trafficking, trafficking in persons and corruption.
At the end of the event, a resolution will be adopted, which will clarify ways to improve therapeutic and cardiological services in Kazakhstan.
to appoint a baybek akim of the city of Almaty, the text of the order says.
because we have made a lot of efforts to develop this educational institution, - added a.nurpeisov.
In 2014, 73 design and technological documents were prepared by industry design bureaus, 2 documents were purchased, 8 documents were tested, 9 types of products were certified.
on the one hand, some parties are trying to use great authority in the information sphere to achieve not only economic, but also military-political goals. on the one hand , some countries try to use a dominant position in the global information network to achieve not only economic , but also military and political objectives .
The Government may discuss these councils and introduce mandatory legislation.
Belarusian, Chinese, Russian, American United States and intelligence officers from Kazakhstan demonstrated the best special forces for five days.
Today, our country is actively discussing the implementation of the administrative justice system. today , our country actively discusses the administrative justice .
these three concepts are at the heart of the world. these are three indivisible concepts .
According to the minister, this forum is aimed at topical issues of the humanitarian sphere.
the minister also visited the factory for the production of "bayan beauties."
During the event, experience in the field of education, agriculture, business was discussed.
I think that cooperation between the two countries will be fruitful, the participation of Korean companies in EXPO-2017 will allow us not only to establish relations with the Kazakh market, but also to enter the markets of the CIS and Asia, "said the head of the Department of International Relations of Astana Expo-2017 marat nurashev.
According to him, thousands of kilometers of roads have been laid and reconstructed in Kazakhstan.
It will be attended by the Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of the Marat Azilkhans, the Minister for Islamic Affairs of the Saudi Kingdom Abdullah ibn Fahd al-Lihedan, the President of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue, the head of the Dashichoylin Church, the Vice President of the World BudBudHHhamba lama lama Damdambajav.
In addition, 426,348 square meters of commercial and individual housing will be commissioned, "said the head of the construction department of the Mangistau region.
According to him, according to the average score, the Karaganda region ranks sixth in the republic.
President of Kazakhstan Dan Ate Corporation LLP daulet turlykhanov and Chinese investor signed memorandum on creation of joint venture "kechuba - Shieli cement."
During the meeting, R. Gassanov reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the current activities of the organization and preparations for the fifth summit of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States, which is scheduled for tomorrow.
At the air show, military and civilian samples of aircraft and materials related to it can be seen, as well as experimental aircraft and military kits.
Nursultan Abishevich, Kazakhstan trend: from totalitarianism to the rule of law democratic state, "said Mr. Harutyunyan.
we want their dreams to be published in his works.
also in the future there will be new terminals at the airports of the capital and Almaty. in addition , kazakhstan also develops marine infrastructure .
as a result of processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, 2015. The number of births in January-May amounted to 159.1 (160.2) thousand people, which is 0.7% less than in January-May 2014.	the the records of civil status say , that the number of births in january - may 2015 amounted to 159.1 ( 160.2 ) thousand people , which is 0.7 % less than in january - may 2014 .	0,93
The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan continues the program placement of independent Eurobonds, creating a liquid yield curve.	the ministry of finance of kazakhstan continues the program of placement of sovereign eurobonds , building liquidity yield curve .	0,93
in a short time, we built a new capital, which all Kazakhstanis are proud of.	but we have built a new capital , which the people of kazakhstan are proud of .	0,93
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 55.6 (55.8) thousand people, which is 2014. 0.4% less than in January-May.	in january - may , 2015 civil registry offices represented 50.4 ( 53.4 ) thousand records acts of marriage .	0,93
it is very important to look at all this in a single way.	it is important to look at all this in the same way .	0,93
The team of the central military orchestra regularly receives invitations to participate in competitions and festivals from countries near and far abroad.	the central military orchestra constantly receives invitations to contests and festivals in the country and abroad .	0,93
By developing these values, we must continue to promote the preservation of national cultural and spiritual diversity in society, strengthening mutual respect and trust among citizens.	developing them , we must continue to promote the preservation of cultural and religious diversity in the society , strengthening of mutual respect and trust between the citizens .	0,93
Construction of 7 schools for 2,500 places is also ongoing, the commissioning of which is planned for 2016, "said S. Kulagin.
According to the plan, young people will help concrete fillers, stone collectors and regulate the course of construction.
Thus, one of the steps of the reform was the strengthening of the work of the judicial board.
Until January 1, 2021, we retained previously signed connections.
congratulatory letters and telegrams addressed to the head of state continue to arrive.
children at risk began to participate in the program.
There's no person who doesn't know what to do.
this industry is being launched for the first time.
Recall, the President of Kazakhstan noted that membership in the WTO contributes to the opening of new horizons before the Kazakh economy, opens our enterprises access to foreign markets, and creates wide opportunities for consumers to scale goods and services.
and Internet and digital technologies increase opportunities many times. mass - media continues to be a key tool of influence on mass consciousness , politics and society .
its operation will be provided by a separate apparatus. "
also engaged in the packaging, processing of individual products.
We believe that local executive bodies should strengthen work to explain the possibilities and new changes in the framework of state support measures for single-industry towns, "summed up the report.
The head of state also noted that during the negotiations international issues on the agenda were considered, including the situation in Ukraine and the Middle East.
Kazakhstan's list of exports increased from 880 in 2008 to 950 in 2014.
Kyzylorda region is an agrarian-industrial region and has significant economic potential. kyzylorda is agrarian-industrial region , it has considerable economic potential .
According to our president N.A., only the most conscientious, talented and trained citizens can come to the civil service, and their salary depends on the quality of work. as nursultan nazarbayev said , the most honest , talented and prepared citizens will for , a new state apparatus , " - a.batyrbayev stressed .
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol" outlined the main directions of the country's economic development.
According to the document, the approval of key indicators for ministers and akims of the regions, cities of the capital and Almaty is provided.
its value lies in the fact that the international community feels such a truth that without mobilizing efforts it is impossible to eliminate deepened problems, disadvantages and inequalities, "the head of state said.
The cost of the project implemented within the framework of the industrialization map of Kazakhstan is 98.3 million tenge.
the organization of such a fundamental event is the branding of the country. such an event - is branding of our country .
Therefore, I proposed to move its headquarters to the Asian continent in order to renew and intensify steam activities, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
warrior soldiers liberated the world from the Nazis. during the war , our veterans defended their homeland .
From July 1 of this year, taxpayers engaged in the wholesale and retail trade in fuels and lubricants and alcoholic beverages should use cash registers and send data to the Department of State Revenue online. from 1 july this year , the taxpayers engaged in wholesale and retail sales of gasoline , diesel fuel and alcoholic beverages are obliged to apply control and cash machines with the online transmission of data to the database of the state revenue committee .
979 people are employed in social jobs, 977 graduates of secondary vocational and higher educational institutions are employed in jobs open by youth practice.
Nursultan Nazarbayev will also meet with representatives of political and business circles and will take part in a solemn parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese people in the war against the Japanese invaders.
The project provides for the return to work of graduates of orphanages, the elderly and students.
Answering questions about the possible interaction of the eeo and the "economic belt of the silk road," K. Massimov noted that there are different opinions on in what format to do this.
The cadets of this military educational institution have created all the conditions for improving physical training.
this trend is not short-term.
they have cheap credit resources, and they, like us, are primarily interested in production, "he said.
Thus, the main criterion for assessing the activities of the local police will be the attitude of the population towards them, "he said.
that is, the volume of theoretical and industrial training, the completion of professional practice in enterprises that make up 60% of professional training, as well as the state order for the training of specialists formed on the basis of the demand of the labor market.
Within the project, new productions are created, new jobs are created, innovations are introduced. new industries and workplaces are created within spiid .
student of the Kazakh classical gymnasium No. 45 of Taraz, a graduate of the school-lyceum No. 59 of Astana, mustafina riana Erkinovna, hope in the swamp "a student of the linguistic gymnasium samat simmbat kuanyshkyzy, a student of the boarding school for especially gifted children with trilingual education in the Tulkubas district of South Kazakhstan region, and Abdazimov.
and the salary of pedagogical workers will increase by an average of 44%.
to avoid this situation, we concluded a memorandum with Kazagro Holding.
Thus, the implementation of the program in the Shemonaikhinsky district goes in two directions.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, more than 50 people took part in the meetings - civil servants, akims of districts, district centers and rural districts, representatives of non-governmental organizations.
a. In her speech, Ergaziyeva noted the main directions and opportunities for the development of Kazakhstan's infrastructure.
Members of the national commission highly appreciate the work on the development of youth tourism in Ural and Zhezkazgan cities. the national commission noted the positive work on the development of youth tourism in uralsk , zhezkazgan , where the efforts to attract children to the sightseeing excursions with broad participation of parents are systematically organized .
Russian companies participate in the development of large deposits of Kazakhstan hydrocarbon raw materials. russian companies are involved in the development of kazakhstan 's largest hydrocarbon deposits .
Currently, the K-Dorstroy company, which won the tender, has begun repair work.
In order to intensify the privatization process, the Government of Kazakhstan proposes to distribute large objects to strategic investors directly by sales or through ipo and spo mechanisms on the stock market, "N. Ulbatyrov said.
the first state to accept this model from Kazakhs.
this requires us to take concrete steps and improve the field of education. this requires us to improve all fields of education .
citizens explained the grounds for state registration of adoption (adoption), the necessary package of documents.
As the deputy noted, it is necessary to clearly define the boundaries of state intervention in labor relations.
all conditions for the comprehensive development of children have been created here.
the two countries share common historical and cultural roots.
The Constitution of Kazakhstan plays a key role in strengthening the model of unity and social harmony, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
I am honored to represent Kazakhstan in the international crew. fourthly , a system of training and retraining and advanced training for the space industry was formed .
The meeting considered the state of application of the new criminal, criminal procedure and penal enforcement codes, which had entered into force since the beginning of the year.
If in 2012 their number amounted to 2 thousand 151, then in 2013 - 2 thousand 480, and in 2014 there is a decrease in the rate of corruption-related crimes, albeit slowly. in 2012 there were 2151 , in 2013 - 2480 , in 2014 the dynamics tended to decline .
When I come with the concert program, I will meet with an audience of 1.5 thousand people, and at this ceremony we will speak to tens of thousands of audiences, this is a great experience, "the artist concluded.
the similarity of our positions regarding the international agenda, centuries-old friendly and cultural ties turn us into close and fraternal countries.
The program provides for real assistance to Kazakhstan, Belarus, Russia and Ukraine, which became the heirs of the Soviet Union in implementing the principles of the Treaty on the Elimination of Offensive Strategic Weapons between the USSR and Russia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
structural materials, furniture and equipment of public premises and rooms are made of expensive material, convenient for use and have a good technical condition.
43,048 objects worth 295.0 billion tenge were legalized.
44,293 objects worth 304.3 billion tenge were legalized.
The study of the received core will be carried out in certified international laboratories of the leading countries in the field of providing these services, China and Poland, with which relevant agreements have been concluded.
late conclusion of contracts with customers, evasion of suppliers from concluding contracts. first , it is necessary to set a time limit to appeal the outcome of the procurement .
Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan v. in the speech of the student, President Nazarbayev stressed from the first days of independence that in destroying the infrastructure for the production and storage of weapons of mass destruction, he clearly demonstrated our strength in partnership with Russia and the United States.
In addition, 2 thousand 603 people will work in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises.
transportation was carried out by road, sea and rail.
In the coming days, the 10th creative anniversary forum of the scientific intelligentsia of the CIS countries will be held in the capital.
Co-chairs of the intergovernmental commission on cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation are happy sagintayev and Igor shuvalov discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral partnership, including in the field of fuel and energy complex, industry, nuclear energy, transport.
Introduction of audio and video recordings in accordance with the procedure established in all trials. audio and video devices are obligatory .
notarial service of all settlements of the capital.
the pension is paid for life and is not inherited.
dear Kazakhstanis!
According to experts, all sectors of the economy have a shortage of personnel for the necessary qualifications. as the experts suggest , nearly all sectors have a shortage of personnel .
in general, the adoption of the bill will improve the system of social protection for persons with disabilities and increase the effectiveness of the provision of services in the field of their rehabilitation.
Since 1992, about 300 groups of Kazakh scientists and innovators have participated in more than 250 projects and received more than 22 million euros under the eurozone's limit programs in the form of grants. over the years of independence , nearly 300 groups of kazakhstani scientists have taken part in more than 250 innovative projects and received over 22 million euros grants from various programs of the european union .
Work is underway to fill the area of ​ ​ the sea port of whitewash with high-tech export-oriented industries.
Note that representatives of Aksaule LLP began to build the palace.
According to the vice-rector, strict control over the selection of personnel of this type will be carried out, everything will be based on the meritocracy system.
The main goal of the plant is to ensure the fulfillment of orders of the state defense industry for the production of boats and ships for the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the border service. the main task of the plant - ensuring the state defense order for the production of boats and ships for the ministry of defense and the border service of kazakhstan national security committee .
National level of qualification: the national seminar from the methodology of architecture to practical application is aimed primarily at improving the quality of education.
There should be an evaluation in the CIS, which should effectively influence global changes, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in total, about 170 fighters, about 20 units of automobile and 10 armored vehicles, five units of front-line and army aviation are involved in practical episodes.
he also spoke about the continuation of fruitful cooperation between parliamentarians of the two countries in the framework of the parliamentary assembly of ecu, CIS.
It is worth noting that each team, consisting of military personnel, includes three men and one woman.
in the future, it can be considered as a general association and a common free zone on our territory, "the head of state said.
Afghanistan needs the help of its friends, "said the Afghan parliamentarian.
inspiration every year. "
During a meeting with monster al-Ohhal, Jordan officially confirmed its participation in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
In accordance with the specifics of the work of the international baccalaureate, seminars, trainings, language courses in Kazakhstan and abroad were organized during the training of personnel with the participation of international experts.
the Secretary-General also noted the importance of a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
Currently, atameken includes many industry associations where women are also active, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
However, the project "Stormy something" has a special place.
As the Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan noted, all efforts are aimed at reducing direct interference in the course formation process.
we participated in the competition as a sports family, promoted a healthy lifestyle.
the serviceability of old pipes is also checked, during hydraulic and temperature tests 1078 pipe defects were found, of which 95% were restored.
the state is trying to support entrepreneurs, but it is important that there is an initiative of the business itself.
The organizers of the meeting were the administrative police committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the public association "Union of Children's Public Organization" Zhuldyz "and the akimat of Kostanay region.
proper preparation of cases for trial - the guarantee of lawful adoption of a court decision. proper preparation for the trial - is the key to the success and fair court decision .
As of July 1 of this year, the housing stock of the city is 18.1 million square meters, while since the relocation to the capital, the housing stock has increased by 14 million square meters. as of july 1 , the housing stock amounts 18.1 million square meters , note , since the capital transferred to astana , the housing stock increased by 14 million square meters .
such meetings are held by representatives of each of the regions of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan ranks 7th in grain exports in the world.
The exhibition presented the domestic aircraft "Aray" for 4 places.
therefore, I think that all this will depend on the budgetary capabilities of Kazakhstan at that time. so i think that everything will depend on the budgetary possibilities that kazakhstan will have .
They are: reclamation of striped forests on the Irtysh coast, phyto forestry in the Kyzylorda region, institutional development and project management.
The official opening of the first school took place.
previously, civil activists, non-governmental organizations, and public organizations participated in the project.
the issuance of a permit is planned on a paid basis.	permits will be issued by the public service center ,  - he said .
In general, the bills of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the international financial center" Astana, "" On customs administration and taxation, "" On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the migration of citizens and oralmans "were adopted.
two additional groups from Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine are selected by private investors and are included among the winners who will participate in the accelerated development program. "
As a result, a 21-year-old Ainaz Zhaiykbaeva native of Kokshetau in the weight category of 48 kg became a "gold" alka.
I think that today's forum will give impetus to the further development of relations between the two countries, "said Dr. Krul.
As the deputies of the Majilis noted, this is one of the most important and necessary actions.
We hope that these measures will help to correct the conditions when children themselves sign up, "he said.
You come to our country, despite the fact that preparations are underway for the 70th anniversary of the UN. in spite of your business , especially in light of the turbulent period in the economy , politics , sectarian issues , preparation for the 70th anniversary of the united nations , you have arrived in our country .
It should be noted that a year ago, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, published a message to the people of Kazakhstan "The Way to a Bright Future" and spoke about the new economic policy.
At the first military sports games in Kazakhstan, eminent military athletes of the Central Sports Club of the Army of the Republic of Kazakhstan performed km.
not to be a museum and library on sacred soil.	i wish patriots would be brought here ,  governor of the region k.kusherbayev said during the opening ceremony .
in addition, legislation on energy supply, energy efficiency and electricity development will be amended to change targets and develop renewable energy and renewable energy sources.
The first Vice Minister for Investment and Development was presented with the victory over the reconstruction of the Almaty-Kapshagay highway, which is part of the transport corridor of the south-center.
For the organization of employment and active social support for the unemployed, classified as target groups, there is a subroutine "social workplace," organized by the employer through the creation of temporary jobs.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the German side about the foreign policy initiatives of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the main provisions of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan and other relevant aspects of the country's development, announced on September 28 as part of the 70th anniversary session of the UN General Assembly in New York.
we have strengthened stability in the country, respecting everyone, regardless of ethnicity.
as a result, its strategic importance in establishing ties with the state and the state's readiness to provide support remain strong.
The main assembly of the people of Kazakhstan in the unification of the people of Kazakhstan is a clearly working mechanism for protecting the rights of representatives of all ethnic groups and nationalities living in our country, "said Z. Baimoldin.
The parties discussed the prospects of the company's activities, which are starting in Kazakhstan, which is working in the field of innovative technologies.
you not only created a state, but also created a stable, prosperous and prosperous state, "added Mohammed Ashraf Ghani.
the leaders of allegorical and traditional religions must understand these complex developments.
starting the meeting, the managing director - the chief engineer - spoke about the main directions and strategy of the company's development.
According to the chairman, grants will be coordinated through a competition of gifted children.
it is necessary to respond directly to activities - uranium production, transfer all other assets to private ownership, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Since the beginning of 2015, the local executive bodies of the North Kazakhstan region have registered 17 acts of civil status on the adoption of children, which is 16 less than in the same period last year.
The head of Pavlodar region took part in the solemn event of September 1.
To date, work is underway to include data in the interactive access map, "the report said.
The press conference will be attended by the Director of the Department of Technology and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan, citizen Batyrkozh and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Technological Development.
According to him, the state symbols of each country have a great meaning and are filled with identity.
locomotive factory is ready to create wheelchairs for cars of Tulpar-Talgo LLP.
According to him, Kazakhstan is recognized as the best among countries that do not have access to the ocean.
Therefore, the 170th anniversary this year is different from this, "said Deputy Governor of East Kazakhstan region J. Omar.
For more than two thousand residents of the village of Khmelnitsky, all types of medical services are available.
at this exhibition, we presented 5 varieties of 11 apples available to us, "said the managing partner of the Rustembayeva dinar company.
There is no doubt that this is a positive event in world history. there is no doubt that the congress will be the brightest event in world history .
the task of religion is to lead to mutual friendship, brotherhood.
as a result, two winners in two nominations were determined.
therefore, we actively participate in such actions as today.
In addition, as the Serbian leader added, the republic will do everything to form a stable economy.
today we have a real onslaught. today 's we have already has certain results .
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that it is important for East Kazakhstan region, which is a major industrial center of the country, to pass this period in new conditions without a significant burden.
our role is to consider the goods and services that will implement a long-term contract, "he said.
financial, institutional and advisory support for selected enterprises.
At the same time, the nation's plan for 100 concrete steps "one of the important initiatives is to reduce state participation in increasing competitiveness in the field of entrepreneurship," he explained.
it will be the only centre of the region as a whole. this is the only center in the region .
replenishment and updating of existing service facilities, existing utilities by food, trade, hotels, campsites and gas stations.
Serbia is a promising and important partner for Kazakhstan. the agreement was signed on october 7 , 2010 in astana when president boris tadić had a visit to kazakhstan .
Now the akims of the districts should thoroughly inspect their territories and determine under what conditions it is possible to create such sites useful for people, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
During the conference, topical issues on converting the printing tank into a convergent format will be discussed.
In his speech, the chairman of the board of samruk-kazyna shukeyev noted that the transformation provides a unique opportunity for samruk-energo to increase the efficiency of business processes and improve the economy of the energy holding.
we are conducting the latest checks and preparations.
within the framework of the new terminal, the development of an air logistics hub associated with a transport and logistics center is possible.
in the preparation of the bill, the best international experience and principles of social justice were applied.
According to him, this idea was implemented with the support of the Chairman of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan Igor Rogov.
Members of the national commission, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scientists, experts on gender education, authors of the studied elective courses on gender education, teachers of universities and colleges and school teachers, as well as leaders of non-governmental organizations dealing with such issues were invited to the seminar.
today, the passage of judges' practice is increasing. of course , the government always paid attention to this issue .
We thank the leadership of ictm for choosing Kazakhstan, including the city of the capital, instead of holding the 43rd International Traditional Music Conference.
among the main areas of the plan are the development of a system of public control, the participation of NGOs in the system of local self-government, the development of mechanisms for shale cooperation between the state and the state.
on the same day, from 10:00 to 22:00 hours, the action "We provide services in the state language" will be held in public transport, medical institutions and shopping centers.
as the best mini-organization, the commission chose Terekta Finance.
the capital on the opera stage of Georgia. paliashvili. performances of the state opera and ballet theater, as well as tours of the ancient Neapolitan San Carlo theater, were held with great success.
According to him, a memorandum on cooperation between the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the German energy agency has been signed in this regard.
and vice versa, in the presence of negative rating actions in Kazakhstan or the slowdown of Baiterek holding's ties with the state, as evidenced by the issue of significant market debt without state guarantees, ratings may decline.
By the end of the year, sandwich panels, fried bricks, an LED lamp and other industries will be launched.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the difficulties are temporary, that their overcoming and advancement along the development path will contribute to the programs implemented in the country.
The development course chosen by the head of state was supported by veterans, members of public associations and cultural centers, as well as residents of Almaty, Taldykorgan, Kapchagai cities and several districts of Almaty region.
we now have a lot of alternative energy projects. we have a lot of projects on renewable energy .
the main engineering infrastructure is attracted from the budget.
When oil prices fell, domestic demand fell, and we immediately felt it. as oil prices fell , the demand immediately tightened .
The goal of the program is to create competitive, export-oriented production of the commodity sector through the formation of regional and world-class companies.
As part of the completion of the first five-year plan, the President of Kazakhstan set the task of energy conservation.
The center for open data enterprise said that "the interregional adviser to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs Richard Kerby noted that" Kazakhstan is on the way to implementing a reliable open data platform taking into account the opinion of citizens and entrepreneurs of all countries. "
our country is modern, democratic, it has entered the world community on equal terms, pays special attention to freedom and human rights. our country is a modern and democratic state , pays great attention to human rights and freedoms .
in this regard, I instruct the Nұr Otan party to take on all explanatory work, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
basic principles: legality, openness, fairness of obtaining information, access to public information, non-proliferation of information, which is a state secret, inviolability of life of the individual, "said M. Ashimbayev.
religion remains a major and important factor.
Registration will last until October 11, 2015.
today it is a modern enterprise that is more intended for women, "he said. Shauenova.
thus, one of the social projects requiring investment was the production of ground contact plates for the visually impaired and completely blind and stripes on the floor surface oriented inside the building.
At the same time, we pay special attention to the substantive part of the exhibition, its high-quality content, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
this work is a logical continuation of the administrative reforms initiated.
During the meeting, the head of the national company spoke about the project, about the construction of the exhibition complex and about the goals of the international exhibition.
the children of our children are raised in families.	in the case of loss of employment , there are benefits ,  - z.arystanova commented .
it will produce 2,000 tons per year for the Karaganda foundry.
V. Sukalo arrived in Kazakhstan to participate in the international conference "Administrative Fair Court: Experience and Problems."
1 million 43 thousand tenge is provided for its implementation.
The cost of this plant may be $1 billion, "he said.
to increase the level of tourism potential, including the development of agricultural tourism, "said the project coordinator Svetlana Belova.
there are a number of global reasons for this.
we are adjacent to the Chelyabinsk and Orenburg regions, so the eagle market is open.
in addition, the Baiterek holding and the Kazakhstan credit company do not invest distributed apartments in their prices, that is, we are not talking about any profit.
For successful implementation of projects, an optimal tax system should be created.
in the manufacturing industry, the fic is 114.1%. in manufacturing , index of actual volume was 114.1 % .
In addition, in Aksay, B. Saparbayev checked the construction of houses for the rural population, as well as examined a number of shops and exchange points, got acquainted with prices for food products, fuel and lubricants and exchange rates.
ecotone + a white enterprise engaged in the production of natural pure concrete.
the day is a sign of movement, development, prosperity and life.
Last year, market volume grew very well.
The name of the Abai in the literature of the peoples of the world along with Shakespeare, Pushkins, Gots.
funds invested in the turnover were also used to purchase raw materials for the creation of the first commodity batch.
The company will become the operator of the project for the construction of a coal refining complex in the Karaganda region.
350-400 new permanent jobs will be created when the plant is fully commissioned.
Today we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our Constitution, the Constitution presents common values, which are supported by all Kazakhstanis. now we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of our constitution , the constitution clearly sets out the common values that are shared by all people of kazakhstan .
Events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate brought together representatives of the people of Kazakhstan, all nationalities.
recognition by the head of state of the political leaders of the third stage, the prevention of distrust of all leading powers in the modern world.
As the parties noted, Kazakhstan and Bulgaria have strong friendly relations based on deep bilateral ties in a wide range of constant political dialogue and cooperation.
The main goal of the bill is the implementation of a patriotic idea, "said the Deputy Minister of Sports and Culture of Kazakhstan Marat Azilkhanov.
the jury of the Slavic bazaar competition praised the performance of dimash kudaibergen.
this suggests that Kazakhstan pays great attention to foreign policy. "
As part of the third stage of the "construction of dry cargo terminals and heart attacks," a joint venture was created - Sea Terminal Fuel and Energy Complex LLP.
the film also received a nomination for Best European Documentary at the Jakarta Film Festival (Indonesia).
firstly, the issues of three-shift schools have been resolved.
Tokayev noted the strategic nature of relations with the European Union, which is a major trade, economic and investment partner of Kazakhstan.
30,356 objects worth 214.6 billion tenge were legalized.
31,636 objects worth 224.6 billion tenge were legalized.
32,361 objects worth 229.4 billion tenge were legalized.
13 projects were implemented taking into account foreign investors, another 12 are exporters of products, "the report said.
As the founder of the country N. Nazarbayev noted at the inauguration on April 29, the purpose of the reform is to modernize the nation. "
telegram "- a free messenger installed on smartphones, tablets and computers in ios and Android information systems.
To this end, the customs services of the two countries will exchange experience in creating a favorable climate for the development of customs control and foreign economic activity.
Another point of the work program was the bypass of outlets, excs and exchange points of the regional center, where the Deputy Prime Minister checked socially significant food products, fuel and lubricants prices and exchange rates of currencies.
At the same time, as the deputy akim noted, the akimat of the capital signed a number of memoranda in order to control prices in markets with trading facilities.
Also, foreign guests will discuss the achievements of Kazakhstan on the way to ensuring and preserving socio-political, interethnic and interfaith harmony.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the country of the great steppe and Afghanistan have historically established traditional friendly relations, strong cultural and spiritual ties.
Recall that in the capital there is a republican forum of patriots on the topic "Eternal country - a single country of the future," which gathered more than 2,000 delegates from all regions of the republic.
Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Development Bank D. Pankin notes that wise leadership, fruitful and unnecessary leadership are the key to the sustainable, dynamic socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the growth of the well-being of the country's citizens, peace and social harmony, as well as the country's high authority in regional structures.
The purpose of the event is to show the capabilities of society through dance, children's creativity, "said the director of the Madina Bakieva Foundation.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of cooperation between states in the field of preventing and combating extremism and terrorism, noting the importance of mutual exchange of experience and information in this direction.
as legislators, we must remember that ensuring the rule of constitution in the country is the main task of deputies, "the head of the Majilis added.
The guaranteed amount of medical care approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is provided free of charge to all. the guaranteed volume of free medical assistance , established by the government of kazakhstan , is free to everyone .
in general, bilateral meetings were held in the b2b format.
large-scale events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate are an ancient taraz, "said Taken Moldakinov.
the tournament is very serious. every year , there are more and more participants .
The conference was attended by the Deputy Secretary of State of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Economy and Foreign Affairs, the Secretary General of the International Organization for the Development of Turkic Culture and Art of the Dusen Kasein, the President of the International Turkish Academy of Darkhan.
The Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan together with the Governor's Office and the Unesse representative office in Kazakhstan will revise and approve the project for the development of conservation, buffer zones of the Khazet Sultan reserve-museum, the creation of a harmonious infrastructure with an architectural model of the Khoja ahmet Yassaui mausoleum.
Ulba Metallurgical Plant produced 414.76 tons of tantalum, 40.12 tons of tantalum and 14.75 tons of niobium products during the reporting period.
the price allows exporting live animals and their products, as well as fodder crops for Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Of the 9,329 applicants (94%), 18,177 graduates took part in the testing.
As the member of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan emphasized, in part 2 of article 1 of the Constitution, the main principle of economic development is the well-being of every citizen.
in the creative competition, high performance was shown by cadets of the military institute - future aviators.
After the opening of the new plant in the industrial zone, issues of industrial production and the implementation of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019 were discussed.
In this regard, Costa Rica took part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
because in accordance with the legislation, marginal tariffs will be established and vice versa, reduce trading, "he explained.
children share the work of new technologies with parents that strengthen the local community.
In this regard, the Governor instructed to ensure the participation of the business and cultural environment of the capital in international events.
this is 137% more than last year.
helps enterprises regulate operations according to consumer requirements.
The sides discussed the prospects of bilateral relations in various areas.
Crown Prince Abu congratulated the head of state on his birthday and wished him good luck and success in his future activities.
Kazakhstan is one of our largest trade and economic partners.
security is important, therefore, I think, the demand for security, for specialists in this area will grow.
Abdikalikova noted the importance of intensifying exchanges between universities and scientific centers of the two countries and offered to organize trips of Japanese scientists to our leading universities, as well as to Japanese centers of science and education.
China is one of the main partners of the eeo. "
"- Bishop of M.O.
On the first day of the competition, Konstantin performed the popular meladze song "Blizzard Again," receiving 89 points out of 90.
but they should not be piecemeal, but unifying. but these differences must not divide , but unify .
from the point of view of building a technique and a character.
after visiting the museum, the Secretary of State gave several specific instructions for the further development of the national museum.
among the repertoires, one can note the presence of national performances in stage productions with skill, which can be presented on the world stage and toured.
mobile school equipment fairs, helplines and hotlines will work uninterrupted in remote settlements, "said the head of the department.
As part of the working trip, Abdikalikova got acquainted with the reconstruction of the Zhezkazgan-Petropavlovsk highway section and the construction of a kindergarten for 320 places under the Nұrly Zhol state program.
an exporter roadmap for entrepreneurs to support exporter entrepreneurs. "
It was we who witnessed global events, because the creation of the bank is a historical event, "said the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan. idriss,
Under the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Young Geologist corporate fund was created to support pre-university geological training of students and the movement of young geologists.
The purpose of the visit is to deepen the trade and economic sphere between the two countries, the report said.
Within the framework of the International Leadership Program "Preservation of Cultural Heritage," the Kazakh delegation studied best practices and modern practices in the field of culture, tourism and museum affairs, project management, got acquainted with the work of state bodies and cultural organizations in major museums in Kazakhstan, Washington, New York and New Mexico.
for various reasons, we have formed one Kazakhstani population - among them both we and the Chechen-Ingush peoples, and those who were sent to develop virgin lands, as well as others. for various reasons we have formed a united nation of kazakhstan - they are forcibly deported like us , the chechen and ingush people , and they are dispossessed people and those who arrived in the development of virgin lands , or for other reasons .
all viewers who watched this film have a desire to see a Kazakhstani, "the jury appreciated the Kazakh film.
this training tests the psychological readiness of military personnel.
the works of domestic authors will be the pride of Kazakhstanis. the works of foreign authors should become the pride of kazakhstan .
all this is connected with traffic, this is the development of public transport, parking and others.
passenger cars, aircraft, cotton cotton, cotton pulp, carpets, ball-shaped cranes and caustic soda.
From the 3rd grade, the disciplines of information and communication technologies "natural science" will be introduced and the composition of the subject "worldview" will be supplemented. natural science is a precedent for such disciplines as biology, chemistry, physics.
today's situation is the most long-term trend, so we must respond correctly to this long-term perspective, "said K. Massimov.
The meeting was attended by the Deputy Chairman - Executive Secretary of the CIS Executive Committee, members of the IAC for the Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Republic of Uzbekistan.
The flight into space lasted 10 days, or rather, 9 days 20 hour 13 minutes 51 seconds. during space flight , the team conducted spacecraft control experiments .
a large-scale plan for sports and social events is currently being developed in the city, and young people should actively participate in this work.
introducing the values ​ ​ of the eternal country into the curriculum, "said K. Burkhanov.
his personal concerts were held with great success on the prestigious stages of Queen Elizabeth, the London Wigmore Hall, the Paris Playel Hall, the Tokyo Opera, the Milan Verdi Hall, the Carlo Felice Theater, a concert in Amsterdam, the St. Petersburg Philharmonic and many others.
At the end of the lecture, the Prime Minister of Japan was awarded the title of Honorary Doctor of Nazarbayev University.
potato collection amounted to 428.3 thousand tons.
Also, the deputy head of the region noted the importance of building the monument "550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate."
Kuevas noted that Mexico attaches great importance to the development of comprehensive relations with Kazakhstan, as evidenced by the opening of the Mexican embassy in the capital this year.
in terms of power, they are occupied by coal.
The press conference will be attended by Mahmoud Mukhanov, Chairman of the Board of the Institute for Economic Research, financier of the World Bank Regional Office for Europe and Central Asia, Regional Director of the World Bank for Central Asia.
Also, the former President of Germany congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and wished him good health and wisdom in all decisions of the head of state for the benefit of the country.
the second, in the direction of "providing non-financial support for entrepreneurship," field schools were organized for short-term training in the basics of entrepreneurship.
The Institute of Economic Research regularly monitors and examines the situation and risks in the world economy. economic research institute regularly analyzes and monitors trends and a risk of the global economy , as the result , the body has developed recommendations to the ministry of national economy of kazakhstan and the president 's administration .
in the third direction of the program will be aimed at youth practice - 286 people, social jobs - 458 people, vocational training - 24 people.
this means that it is necessary to modernize the entire technological process as a whole, and not modernize it at a certain enterprise, "said A. Rau.
Representatives of the garden also asked questions about the development of urban infrastructure, modernization and expansion of roads.
Today, the energy conservation program is the best, they have good results on energy audit, "he added.
280 tons of environmentally friendly and high-quality products from 16 districts of Almaty region and the city of Taldykorgan, Kapchagai, Tekeli will be brought to the fair.
According to Francis, today the French are in the priority - the development of agriculture, tourism, medicine.
During the year of service in the army, they are still waiting for such exercises, exercises and field training.
It is a great honor to meet the children and see their burning lights.
the bank will be located on the territory of the not growing Ulba metallurgical plant (umz).
Funding for education is increasing annually.
in this regard, the average holiday tariff for the population was 0.56% lower than the current tariff of 2082.58 tenge/gcal excluding VAT, and the average holiday tariff for other consumers at the level of the current tariff was 2582.40 tenge/gcal excluding VAT.
interest rate is equal to libor + floating spread for each interest period.
the third stage will be held in the capital of Brazil.
Alexander Lukashenko noted that he knows Nursultan Nazarbayev in the Belarusian republic as a talented leader and world-wide politician.
according to the results of the competition, a professional, an "athlete," an "erudite" among the servicemen of the Kazakh army who demonstrated skills in mastering the rear obstacle strip, accurate throwing of a f-1 grenade and physical training.
It is worth noting that during this short period the theater was visited by art historians of Almaty, St. Petersburg, New York, Toronto, Paris, Antwerp, regular and Genoese groups.
Kazakhstan took 42nd place in the ranking of global competitiveness. this year kazakhstan has taken the 42nd place in the ranking .
participants of the meeting discussed cooperation in the energy sector, agriculture, scientific and technical activities and other areas.
this holiday symbolizes the end of the month of Ramadan, important for the Muslim community.
in general, work on the return of agricultural land to State ownership is ongoing and in stages.
The event will be attended by a wide crowd, ethnocultural associations, non-governmental organizations, representatives of gardens, tourists and climbers.
In addition, the project carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science will contribute to the development of institutional mechanisms for the implementation of youth policy.
As part of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the film tells about the little-known pages of the story of "cheap-i-kypchak."
in particular, tightening the administrative penalty for failure to submit a declaration on accounts abroad.
The press conference will be attended by the chairman of the council of the public movement "Kazakhstan-2050."
As previously reported, the national pavilion of Kazakhstan was included in the top three in the nomination "the best opening of the theme and content."
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the sole shareholder and founder of the health insurance fund. the government of kazakhstan will be the one shareholder and founder of the health insurance fund .
I am a mother who someone tried to deprive happiness of communication with her son. i am a mother who was being tried to deprive the happiness of communication with my son .
According to him, these leaders can make a great contribution to the formation of peace and harmony, under which security lies.
The event was attended by judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan R. Mamyrbaev.
thanks to the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to launch such a program as "national champions to support mid-business leaders," many companies received significant support from the state.
Taraz Chemical Park is located in the Shu district of Zhambyl region.
at the Diaghilevo airfield in the suburbs of Ryazan, flight crews of Kazakh and Russian enterprises competed on Su-27, MiG-29 fighters and Mi-8 helicopters.
Recall that the winner of the regional casting "bala turkvizyon-Kazakhstan" will go to the Almaty star house, where he will be prepared for the decisive stage of national selection.
this is an initiative aimed at creating understanding and fostering cooperation and mutual respect.
payment terms can be found on the website of the national bank in the section "protection of the rights of consumers of financial services."
this is a focused activity, which requires comprehensive measures to clean up the national economy, "he said.
the first stage is a little more than 1.6 km.
completion is scheduled for August next year.
We have great prospects for the further development of partnership in these areas, "the head of state said.
According to him, today in developed countries, farming is connected to research institutes that consider monitoring and research, practical proposals.
The head of state signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on self-regulation," aimed at implementing the national plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms and bringing legislation in line with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On self-regulation."
In social communication there are all the possibilities: raising benefits, free meals, transportation of staff, a mini-hostel for non-urban ones.	meanwhile , it is necessary to train them all the time , to upgrade their skills ,  plant manager ibrahim arystanbayev said in an exclusive interview with " strategy2050.kz. "
A.Karashev told his Norwegian counterpart about the creation of the National Commission for Modernization to implement 5 institutional reforms of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and about the tasks of the message of the head of state "Way to the Future" and topical issues of social and economic development of Kazakhstan.
The professional level of the competition was very high, the contestants are very strong. the professional level of competition was very high , the contestants were strong .
involvement of Armenian enterprises in industrial and agricultural cooperation and import substitution, as well as the maximum elimination of barriers in this direction for Armenian entrepreneurs, which contributes to the feeling of economic dynamics of membership in the Eurasian Economic Union in the country, "said Mr. Sidorsk.
It should be noted that today for three hours the cabinet of ministries discussed the tasks set by the head of state on November 18.
at the plenary session, the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan aslan Sarinzhipov, rector of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi of the Mutans, deputy director of the UK International Agency for Higher Education for Politics, rector of the Almaty University of Management. Kozhakhmetov, head of the University of Warwick, Jan Polmowski, as well as president of the Center for International Programs in Nigmets.
Zerde clearly stated his position on the sale of the stake.
This will allow us to evaluate what is happening in the world and develop a direction, having come to a single solution of religion and spirituality. the v congress will develop a common position at the level of reassessment of the existing right moral , ethical origin , " - he added .
this first five-year plan has been successfully completed, "said A. Arynov.
what was the impetus for the development of the project?
in the Zhetysu district to the Mukatai district "Ainabulak-2" green spaces will be organized.
Based on the principle of transparency of the economy, our enterprises can systematically protect their rights, "the expert concluded.
these measures were taken jointly with the German energy agency, which is now our main partner.
The conference was attended by leading social scientists, politicians, members of parliament, members of the Kazakh "friends club," representatives of the diplomatic corps and the Kazakh diaspora.
Governor's Office of the city conducts measures to strengthen interethnic cooperation.
a hundred years later, but his thoughts and ideas are still connected with the life of the people, independence, eternal country. "
he is the first in cross-country skiing in the region.
all the production capabilities of Kazakhstan were presented in detail there.
the first place was taken by athletes from Russia, the second - by the Belarusian army.
One of the activities is the prevention of violence and the development of a system of assistance to children who are victims of violence. one of the ngo 's directions is the prevention of violence and the development of a system to help children - victims of violence .
According to him, the EU in Central Asia should increase efficiency and focus on the main directions of the updated strategy.
we must begin work in this direction from the walls of schools, colleges and universities.
today there is a republican headquarters, the purpose of which is to unite the innovative, scientific potential of the country, select the best green projects, "technologies," promote their implementation, thereby qualitatively ensure the thematic coverage of the Expo-2017 exhibition, "said the managing director.
During the meeting, the head of state, telling the queen about the results of his visit to the United Kingdom, noted with gratitude that many agreements had been concluded between the two parties.
The President of Kazakhstan was also informed about the implementation of the industrialization map of the region.
it is necessary to hold such competitions, which encourages young people to be happy, to start a family, "he said.
respect for the state is the duty of every Kazakhstani.
During the conversation, the parties discussed the current state and prospects of Kazakh-British cooperation in the field of foreign and domestic policy, and also confirmed mutual interest in further deepening of strategic partnership.
thus, socially problematic issues will be resolved and state revenues will be increased.
He also drew attention to the fact that the program of the President of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol" and the initiative of the Chairman of the PRC "one belt - one road" are common indicators of bright future long-term cooperation.
After this meeting, we will work to ensure that the plan, which will be adopted in the near future, is implemented, "said the Vice Minister of Energy.
After this study, it will become known when they join it, "he said.
I agree that the pope said: "our unites stand much further than those who distinguish us."
The Minister read out the address of President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The terms of this programme provide for the extension of the advance payment for a period of 7 years until 15 November 2015, with a delay of 10 per cent.
At the same time, about 50 laws have been adopted, industry programs have been developed.
According to the Department of Agriculture of the capital, the fair will feature meat products, fish and poultry meat, sausages, dairy products and honey, as well as fruits and vegetables.
the ambassador arrived in Kostanay region for cultural purposes.
a tolerant society will be formed in large families in the future, "he said.
One of the main goals of the Second World War is the creation of an effective transport, logistics and industrial center that ensures the interests and transit potential of trade and export activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as contributes to the development of economic and cultural exchange with neighboring states.
in this direction, a number of works are being carried out to solve the issues of organizing leisure activities for adolescents during training and holidays.	some work was carried out in this direction , there are positive changes in the organization of the employment of teenagers in their free time and vacation period .	0,95
Within the framework of the message of the head of state "Nұrly zhol," the terminal of Astana is being reconstructed.
You know that in Soviet times there was atheism in Kazakhstan.
Karaganda region's business increases investment activity.
In 5 this year, about 50 thousand square meters of housing were built in Zhanaozen, more than 2 thousand new jobs were created, the unemployment rate is only 1.8%.
According to the Kazakh Foreign Minister, the bank of low enriched uranium will work for the development of world atomic energy and will contribute to global nuclear security.
projects will receive appropriate funding, "he said.
In Uralsk 70-80 children are engaged in this sport.
we will develop manned space in accordance with the need, "concluded the chairman of the aerospace committee.
The main goal of monetary policy in the future is to monitor price stability and inflation, "said E. Dossayev.
KTZh JSC is taking comprehensive measures to maximize the speed of trains.
he drew attention to the importance of increasing the social responsibility of business and called on entrepreneurs to actively use opportunities for the development of public-private partnerships.
secondly, the capital received the status of holding an international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
the consul general expressed gratitude for the organization of the meeting.
according to the plan, a large number of visits are expected. we have scheduled a number of visits of presidents , prime ministers and ministers .
for investors, we propose a legal regulation of investment issues based on the rules of English law, when the trial is in English and involves foreign judges.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, transport infrastructure needs to be improved, and the environmental situation is connected with it.
the Iranian State, as it is known from the report, is represented within 4 days by manufacturers in cities such as Tehran, Tabriz, Korasan, Razaui and Mashhad, building and building materials, engineering and technological materials and services, automotive industry, agricultural machinery and devices, food and detergent products.
Today we attended a presentation by Armenian colleagues on the creation of an e-red book. today we have discussed the presentation of the armenian colleagues about the creation of an electronic red book .
The first step in this direction is open to all new personnel: from September 1, 2015, in order to create conditions for any citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan to enter the public service.
we monitor how naval sailors work, how the day-to-day activities of underwater warship crews, their combat and physical training, and access to water are organized.	there , our sailors watch the work of their foreign colleagues on the warship , demonstrate their knowledge and techniques , exchange experience .	0,95
To use this service, you must first install telegram "and find in the item" poisk "@ kazpostbot.
During the meeting, the prospects of expanding freight traffic through the Kazakh logistics terminal at the port of Lianyungang in the Pacific Ocean were discussed.
The event discussed important issues of international cooperation in combating corruption and money laundering, the financing of terrorism, crimes related to fraud and tax evasion, as well as the recovery of proceeds and assets from crime.
In addition, it contains information on the history and culture of Kazakhstan, interesting facts, reference geographical data, "said the director of the institute.
for the first time in many years, I could not open the work of parliament. for the first time in a long period , i cannot open the session of the parliament .
he said that much can be said about the President of Kazakhstan and the legal system, "- said the acting.
initially they showed no interest, after which, thanks to the intervention of the head of state, in 2012 they signed 3 agreements with the Spanish king and opened a "window to Europe."
before that, we supplied raw materials to this market.
to create a green belt in the Karakiyansky, Troyansky, Tugudinsky, Mangistau regions.
During the meeting, Minister of Shipping and Roads of India Kadkari and Minister of Railways of India Suresh Prabhu discussed the possibilities of cooperation between the two countries, issues of its further development, agreements were reached aimed at simplifying commodity traffic using the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway corridor.
As part of the brics summit, the heads of state and members of the delegation will discuss issues of improving the international economic situation, expanding mutually beneficial trade and investment ties.
this is the lowest indicator so far, that is, we have completed the task of maintaining inflation at the level of 3-4%. this is the lowest figure in history - we have managed to conserve the inflation rate at the level of 3-4 % .
we now have a trade and transport fleet. now we have a sufficient trade-transport fleet .
the purpose of the joint exercises is to strengthen mutual understanding and trust, exchange experience and experience between the two armies, increase the interoperability of the armed forces of the two countries in the fight against terrorism and create conditions for the preservation of peace and stability in the region.
The Chairman of the Chinese Society of Friendship with Foreign Countries said that thanks to the skillful leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev and his reputation in society, the people of Kazakhstan have achieved great results.
The mandatory requirement of the competition to record the hashtag # helloexpo2017 under the photo.
Sheikh Salman al-Sabah praised the skills of President Nursultan Nazarbayev. salman sabah al-salem praised the policy of the president of kazakhstan , noting the progressive political and economic development .
now applicants, regardless of specialty, can choose on the run and ct subjects of physics, jagraphy, chemistry, biology or world history.
Since 2004, more than 250 objects have been provided with glass, "the report said.
more precisely, the 4th reform of conformity and unity. in particular , if we discuss the 4th reform about identity and unity .
Such brand sculptures as the heart of the country - the capital!, "i love astana," said akim.
On the last day of September, the audience was presented with the outstanding choreographer B. ballet of the Eifman "native."
we are at the origins of a global innovation network, without which a country cannot be competitive. if there is no innovation network , the country cannot be competitive .
we are looking for ways to implement these tasks and are taking measures, "he said.
We want institutions to be low and high-quality.
the implementation of these projects will create a high-quality transport network of the country and reduce the gap between the regions, "the report said.
Relevant criteria for competitiveness. there are appropriate criteria for competitiveness .
the agreement is aimed at creating favorable legal conditions for the protection and promotion of investment, improving the investment climate and further strengthening mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation between the countries.
According to the minister, the planned new standards of education are integrated into the humanization of education.
During the talks, the possibility of opening direct flights between Kazakhstan and Singapore was discussed in order to implement the 73rd step of the national plan 100 Concrete steps "led by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan (linking the city of Astana as the financial center of the country through regular air links with world financial centers)," the statement said.
it is called the "transition to low-carbon urban development."
in the future we will train specialists for interplanetary flights.
an eternal country in the development of Kazakh identity, "the Kha law, the concept of the development of the people until 2025, the project" big state - big family. "
In addition to the call to link transport routes, the head of state expanded the framework of intercontinental dialogue, initiating the creation of a universal Eurasian economic space, "the ambassador said.
During the war years, he was one of the sources of support for the army, providing the front with the necessary ammunition, "said the commander of the unit, Colonel Akhmakhanbetov.
It should be noted that the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan visited Kazakhstan for the first time.
measures are being introduced to bring the competent authorities to administrative responsibility to limit corruption in the performance of public service, "he said.
the complex is equipped with Russian and Turkish innovative devices.
Shymkent hosted a working meeting between the white president of the "transtelecom" dauren Pshembayev and the akim of the South Kazakhstan region.
The Chairman of the Senate expressed confidence that the upcoming visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Cuba will be a historic event in bilateral relations and will give him a significant impetus.
The deputies are also invited to clarify the timing of the preparation of the conclusion to the sectoral committees on legislative amendments related to the transition of Kazakhstan to the "green economy."
At the same time, the representative of the Tajik parliament noted the relevance of the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, which secured the support of the world community.
the main thing is the assembly - it will direct our work. " dauzova.
the main role will be played by the presentation of the editor-in-chief of the English-language magazine "fdi" certificate, which includes the capital among 20 cities with a free economic zone.
The head of the Department of Onomastics and Visual Information Monitoring of the Language Development Department, etc., reported on the results of the joint campaign "For the Purity of the Language" of the Kostanay Regional Branch of the Nұr Otan Party with the akimat.
K.Tokayev expressed interest in the development of fruitful cooperation between Kazakh parliamentarians and deputies of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as well as within the framework of the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries.
a lot of work will be done, projects that can be freely launched into the market with large studies will be produced on market conditions, and they will be able to continue their work on their own, "B. Baisengaliev explained.
In addition, famous statesmen shared their opinions on the book "life transitions": Mr. Zholdasbekov, Kenzhegal sagadiyev, Toleutai Suleimen, Alexander Tarakov.
women always choose the second direction, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan is deeply aware of the difficulties and risks that Afghanistan now faces.
Every year, as part of the event, we try to cover various areas of society.
To date, 9 enterprises are operating under the program.
It is also planned to put into operation 1800 apartments by the end of the year.
Over 5 years, the industry has created 2.5 thousand new jobs.
The main issue was ensuring the safety of this project. the main issue was the safety of the project .
This is the first bathhouse for a wide reception of people in the last 20 years, "said Anuar Akhmetzhanov, director of Public Baths LLP.
Currently, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan is expanding the scope of international cooperation in the field of the military-industrial complex.
youth participation in mayoral elections is now being intensified. as of today , young people participate in government affairs .
the European side is also working in this direction, and is ready to sign an agreement with Kazakhstan on a simplified visa procedure and administrative mission in the conditions of harmonization of Kazakh legislation in the fight against illegal migration, the fight against organized crime, the return of citizens of the country, the provision of temporary asylum.
Of course, the third effective factor for us is a feature of the multi-ethnic formation of Kazakhstan.
in the context of multilateral diplomacy. Sarekenov and R. Nina merikan discussed the relationship between the capital and Kuala Lumpur on the world stage and within the framework of international organizations.
in the period 2014 under review. in comparison with the corresponding period, the number of migrants inside the country increased by 33.5% to 227,977 people.
The sides discussed a project on state exploration of the subsoil of three subsoil sections in Kostanay, North Kazakhstan and Akmola regions.
including T. Suleimenov, as part of his visit to London, met with the Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Policy and Partnership Philip.
Qatari, Norwegian and German scientists take part in the preservation of archaeological sites, for example, a birch bark mound, ornate inscriptions and a settled town. "
It is expected that this year the crop will be harvested in the amount of 17.5 million tons. it is predicted level of harvest at 17.5 million tonnes .
To date, grants totaling 60.3 million tenge have been issued.
At the site of the VI council of the expert club, organized by the nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050," the participants presented the idea of ​ ​ developing the institute of public control in Kazakhstan.
about 90% of the funds were issued.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has improved the system of public administration, the purpose of which is to form a professional state apparatus capable of solving issues related to the current and future tasks of the country. since 1992 , kazakhstan improves the system of governance , which aims to create a professional state apparatus that will be able to solve current and future problems of the country .
they learned to listen, pass through the mountain river and, most importantly, look for people missing in the forest.
Kazakhtelecom intends to continue to maintain a leading position in the telecommunications market, increasing the current scale and competitive position of the mobile business, which corresponds to the long-term development strategy of the company, said the chairman of the board of Kazakhtelecom.
the transition to a new structural economy requires more efficient functioning not only of individual companies, but also of entire industries. forming new structure of the economy , we have to reach two main objectives : to develop private sector , to reduce state ownership , " b.sagintayev said .
The volume of retail turnover of officially registered enterprises in January-September 2015 amounted to 337008.9 million tenge, which is 6.8% higher than the level of the same period of 2014 in comparable prices.
in our country, all conditions have been created for the development of culture, languages ​ ​ and ethnic groups.
In his speech, the speaker noted that in the first half of this year, a steady impetus for the socio-economic development of the region remained.
on the agenda - discussion of issues related to the work of Eurasia, further development of the work of the council, further improvement of relations and joint work between aeronautical enterprises, as well as the implementation of measures to ensure flights and the organization of unmanned aerial vehicles.
In the 1st quarter of 2015 the gross regional product amounted to 365.7 billion tenge.	according to the report , the gross regional product in the first quarter of 2015 has amounted to 365.7 billion tenge .	0,95
images on the front and back sides of coins made of gold, silver and a mixture of neisilbers are the same.	coins of gold , silver and nickel silver alloy have identical image front and back sides .	0,95
Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly will take part in the press conference.	the press conference will be attended by minister of culture and sports of the republic of kazakhstan arystanbek muhamediuly .	0,95
competitions were held for two days.	competitions were held for two days .	0,95
The international protocol, adopted by more than hundreds of cities around the world, is based on the development of food security and food systems.	the international protocol , which was signed by more than hundred cities in the world , is dedicated to providing of food security and sustainable development of the food systems .	0,95
Italy is one of the largest investors in the Kazakh economy.	italy is one of the largest investors in the economy of kazakhstan .	0,95
The Minister noted that the further development of energy resources will become important, in connection with which Kazakhstan chose the energy of the future as the theme of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017. "
studied the constitution of other countries.
According to him, German lawyers noted that freedom of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan is based on the constitutional level.
A. Mamytbekov stressed that it is natural that Kazakhstan is on the sidelines to create conditions for the implementation of favorable investment activities among the CIS countries.
The development of the air harbor in the South Kazakhstan region, the improvement of urban infrastructure, of course, will positively affect the general economic and social sphere in the southern region.
In the first part of the day, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with cultural objects that visited the museum "botbai settlement" in the open air and the complex "Abylay Khan residence."
kaznex invest analyzed the potential of Kazakh products when entering the Vietnamese market.
According to the results of last year, significant funds were used and 3 general education facilities for 2,360 places and 4 kindergartens for 780 places were put into operation.
primary organizations, doctors of regions and regions are the foundation of the oncological service of the republic, "said the country's chief oncologist, director of the Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology and Radiology.
In 2016-2018, 24 training programs will be developed for implementation in 10 basic colleges with the participation of employers.
According to him, such information should be available to society, such as violation of rights, restriction of human freedom, implementation of acts of terrorism, formation of local budget expenditures.
As part of the forum a. Musinov met with the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic of Korea ChO, where the parties discussed in detail the development of relations in the field of political, trade, economic, as well as cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
if you recalculate the dollar at the rate of 250-260 tenge, then the cost of grain in Kazakhstan will correspond to world prices, "the minister added.
Of course, at first we can say that we will lose a little, but we must go through this.
When the platform began, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev invited the Vatican to become one of the leading supporters of this initiative, "said M. Azilkhanov.
The head of state noted that special attention was paid to the development of cooperation in the transport and transit sphere, on which the increase in the level of trade between the two countries depends.
we would not have stopped working in the Pavlodar MNZ, but from September 15 we see that modernization work requires a temporary cessation of work, this is a technological necessity used when introducing a new plant. we would not stop the work at pavlodar refinery , but since september 15 , it will stop because of the modernization and introduction of new equipment .
We want to increase Kazakhstan's share in the commodity industry, so we are working calmly, "he said.
production growth is observed in the manufacturing industry, its share in production is 62.9%, including the share of food production 25.5% (ifo 111.8%), beverage production 24.6% (fik 92%), mechanical engineering 23.6% (106%).
G. As the Akhmediyarov emphasized, the work of the creative council will not become censorship.
In this regard, members of the armed forces of Kazakhstan continue to work in the area of ​ ​ emergency.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 217,381, including 208,650 small enterprises (less than 100 people).
In order to increase the competitiveness of domestic marine fleets, the state is taking appropriate measures, "said A. Asaubaev.
I think that this institute should be launched, "he said.
the constitution is the basis of all legislation.
at the same time, special attention was paid to cooperation in the field of innovation and high technology.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the visit to Kazakhstan was quite productive.
for us, this is a very good indicator that proves that people trust electronic government. this is a good indicator , and it means that people trust e-government .
all ethnocultural centers are jointly actively working to explain the idea of ​ ​ the president of the "eternal country."
each person has his own formula of patriotism. each person has own definition for patriotism .
creation of a "map of inspections" containing information on inspections and violations committed by entrepreneurs.
Also, the Holy Father, the Vatican has always supported the initiatives of the head of Kazakhstan and took an active part in the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
therefore, in such a situation, we need one idea - this, of course, is the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
According to the speaker, Kazakhstan will have access to the Chinese seaport.
in particular, Serbian companies took part in the construction of a number of stations of the Almaty metro.
the plan is aimed at the preliminary development of the raw material base of metallurgy.
sustainable innovative innovations are developing in close contact with the branches of business, science, education and this is the main factor in the transition from raw materials to innovation.
in the center there are two multimedia rooms, the library has 3,000 ecosystem funds.
Currently, the policy of energy saving and improving energy efficiency is one of the directions of industrial and innovative development in Kazakhstan. at present , the policy of energy conservation and energy efficiency is one of the directions of industrial and innovative development in kazakhstan .
Recall that in 2013, 1300 children were covered by the action in the city of Taraz, in 2014 - 1,500 children, this year 1600 schoolchildren will be assisted.
We think that the women's institute will be launched in the near future with the participation of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs. women entrepreneurs , we this institute will soon be created with the support of the national chamber of entrepreneurs .
As part of the third reform "industrialization and economic growth," devoted to diversification, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to customs procedures, tariff policy, non-tariff barriers that are absent in world practice.
there are risks associated with the political situation in the region.
r. according to gainutdin n. Nazarbayev created the capital as a modern platform for discussing various issues - this is his vision.
In June of this year, nine West Point cadets visited the military institute of our ground forces.
According to the minister, last year a survey of Kazakhstani employers was conducted in order to find out what they expect from university graduates.
the total cost of projects is 4.7 billion tenge.
The main objects of an exposition consist from more than 300 books, books, film photo soundtracks connected with the Kazakh customs and the history of the constitution of Kazakhstan and also the constitution of foreign countries.
he noted that the difference should be the first unifying feature.
According to him, the event dedicated to the celebration of the anniversary is a patriotic event.
By the end of 2015, the number of new 20 production facilities and operating facilities will reach 140. until the end of 2015 20 new productions will be introduced in the sez and the total number of existing production facilities in special areas will reach 140 .
firstly, this is the law "on minimum social standards and guarantees," prepared by deputies on behalf of the head of state.
in conclusion, article 55 98 was amended.
I am sure that the son will become a real patriot and will benefit the country, "the letter says.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan there is also a regional specificity: in many regions of Kazakhstan there is no middle category.
competitive procedures were conducted and textbook suppliers were identified.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstan at any time strives for friendly relations with neighboring countries.
The president of the company also noted that wheat is transported by domestic dry trucks "post at" and "Turkestan."
The holding of a forum of patriots in our country has become a tradition. it has become a tradition to hold a forum of patriots of our country and celebrate our heroes , present awards .
most of them are free trade zones, only 17 are customs unions. most of them are free trade zones , and only 17 are related to the customs unions .
if the same pavilion appeared at Expo 2017, then Kazakhstanis would become the most visited place at the exhibition, "he said.
sergeant 2 class nurbola sartai (74884 a/b), sergeant 3 class darkhan boars and sergeant alymzhan akbunpeev (35748 a/b).
The Governor of the region spoke about the construction of land roads "Aktobe-or," "Aktobe-atyrau" and "center-west" in the region.
One of the main issues that Kazakhstan was solving at this time is the harmonization of the country, the prevention of inter-ethnic, interfaith conflicts, "he concluded.
- Protocol on amendments and additions to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on labor activities and protection of the rights of labor migrants, citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan temporarily operating in the territory of two countries, of May 2006, 4;
Asia is booming today.
the whole world eats raw fish of the Japanese.
The volume of food and beverage services in January-September 2015 amounted to 208 billion tenge and increased by 7.5% compared to January-September 2014.
we attach great importance to the further development of relations with Moscow, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
Because we open our borders on goods from abroad, the goods will come to Kazakhstan more.
there are their own problems in the auto industry and oil and gas. the automotive industry has its problems , the oil and gas sector also has its own problems .
they all fought for the unity of the nation, "said Mr. Yandiyev.
According to him, 337,112 people are in line for housing in the direction of heat.
the program of tourism existing at us will allow to develop within the country national clusters, such as capital pine forest, Almaty, Almaty region, a great silk way and also to develop such regional projects as Alakol, balkash.
I believe that the work of Mrs. Bahargul, which collects such a worthy heritage and offers it to future generations, "said the director of the national museum Darkhan Mynbai.
left without housing placed in dormitories, rental apartments.
also as part of the Road to School action, I instruct you to pay attention to the safety of transporting students, providing hot meals, preparing children for school, "said A. Batalov.
Today, Kazakhstan has concluded and signed a similar agreement with three Latin American countries - Ecuador, Brazil and Argentina.
our library is designed in electronic form, and now all regional libraries are moving to digital format, so we really need such training.
the complex was launched under an investment project for the reconstruction of a broiler poultry farm.
The head of the region also told the ambassador about the investment opportunities of the region, in particular, the industrial zone with an area of ​ ​ 200 hectares, necessary for the development of any business infrastructure located along the international Western Europe-Western China highway built in Aktobe.
In September 2014, one of the largest Russian mining companies polymetal, specializing in the production of precious and non-ferrous metals, became the private property of this enterprise.
the commission is fighting domestic violence. the commission also works to combat family violence .
He noted that the draft labor code was designed to implement 100 concrete steps to implement the national plan - five institutional reforms (83 steps).
constitutionalism is the foundation of world civilization, the foundation of democratic traditions and traditions that determine the peculiarities of the constitutional development of Kazakhstan, "said K.Sadykov.
This garden will be located on the territory adjacent to the aray park, along Zhaykazyn Street.
For 2012-2014, 345 professional standards have been developed, another 58 will be developed this year.
first, the consolidation and contribution of the state, society and every Kazakhstani to the modernization process.
also, according to the ambassador, an important issue is how to educate and educate young people.
is one of the largest investors in Kazakhstan. the usa is among the biggest investors of kazakhstan .
today we are discussing the military organization of the late 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, "said LB.
We believe that updating the strategy between the EU and Central Asia (oa) will strengthen the cooperation founded so far.
improving the staff of the judicial system, increasing the independence of judges, modernizing the activities of the higher judicial council.
we survived two price instability, but never raised the price per square meter. working on the construction , we use the building materials made in kazakhstan .
the chairman of the Senate of the parliament, the generous Tokayev, in his opening remarks, noted that the state's tax policy "is one of the main tools of the country's economic development strategy."
The President of Kazakhstan noted that despite the crisis in the world economy and measures to forcibly reduce budget spending, the funds allocated for education are not reduced.
It is worth noting that last year this exercise was held at the spassk training center of the Karaganda region.
Also, a feasibility study and additional examinations are excluded from the list of necessary documents, "he said.
I am sure that the implementation of the project will make a significant contribution to the further development of the food belt in the metropolitan area, "the akim said.
In addition, the signing of an agreement on the creation of a free trade zone between the EAEU countries and Vietnam opens up new prospects for domestic producers who can take their positions in the Vietnamese market.
The parties noted the importance of continuing the international initiatives put forward by Kazakhstan, especially the leaders of world and religious religions, which took part in the fifth meeting in June.
Thus, as a result of joint actions, a jury court, juvenile justice institutions, mediation, and a system of using information technologies in judicial proceedings were introduced in Kazakhstan.
Kazavtodor proposes the ministry to introduce a subscription fee for residents of Kazakhstan.
The forum of patriots "g_l_k Ate m" became national attempt to support 5 institutional reforms.
On 1 September 2014, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Persons with a Residence Permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Oralmans Associated with their Legalization of Property" was signed, and also announced the start of the procedure for legalization of property not in economic circulation.
finished products are traded on Kazakhstan and Russian markets.
In turn, Adaulbayev confirmed the readiness of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan to dialogue and continue joint work in this direction.
More than 500 military personnel and members of their families from military units and formations of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Akmola garrison, as well as the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will gather on the square of "defenders of the fatherland" in the capital.
cooperation with the national postal operator Kazpost is a strategically important project.
expenditure market guarantee for investors. we have a guaranteed market for investors .
the company has put on the market products of wide trade.
K.Tokayev spoke about the activities of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, as well as about the processes of legislative support for the five institutional reforms of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
it treats diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, metabolism, musculoskeletal system, peripheral nervous system, chronic fatigue syndrome, lore organs, urological, gynecological diseases and a number of concomitant pathologies.
in the western zone of Kazakhstan, around three large projects, such as Kashagan, Tsho and Karachaganak, a national cluster began to be created, which will support and maintain engineering, oil and gas production, and process them.
their business model is more efficient than safety.
The route began with sending a ball to the sky with the architectural composition "My Kazakhstan."
now I want to pay off the debt to the Fatherland and serve in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
you agree with corruption in any country, or support leaders who support the fairness of the law, "said J. Kerry.
The International Media Festival, held in Hamburg, Germany, is one of the leading events in this field.
According to the Executive Director, as part of the industrialization program, an unprecedented industry point has appeared in Kazakhstan.
To do this, you need to prepare hotels, improve the service, reach guides accompanying travelers, taxi drivers and translators who speak English, "said A. Issekeshev.
We hope that Kazakh-Chinese relations within the framework of the economic belt of the silk road will develop in mutually beneficial conditions.
Currently, the production capacity will be increased to 7 thousand tons of milk and fermented milk per year.
we plan to hold the next meeting in Bishkek, so we consider it advisable to instruct parliament and the higher council to prepare a plan and a corresponding draft of the council's provisions, "K. Zhakupov said.
Also, the priority of the partnership between Kazakhstan and Ukraine should be the use of transport potential, cooperation in nuclear energy, the space industry, "said N. Nazarbayev.
apartment building 210 apartments, cost 1 square meter 923 tenge.
In 2010-2014, JV participants retained about 193 thousand jobs and created more than 58 thousand new jobs.
gardening of courtyards is carried out by trees, shrubs, flower beds and lawns.
two of them are aimed at modernization of water management and waste management in Shymkent and Aktobe, and one is aimed at increasing the potential of the airport in Astana. chakrabarti.
The purpose of the seminar is to complete the selected study "Gender criteria of elective courses within specialized and pre-professional fields in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and to implement proposals for the introduction of gene-forming at all levels of the education system.
The "green zone," created on the basis of garden infrastructure, is striking with a small architectural view, there are urns, benches, playgrounds.
to date, we have commissioned 344 thousand 60 square meters. we have commissioned 344 thousand square meters of housing . by the end of the year this figure will be not less than 476 thousand square meters .
in addition, issues related to game financing, environmental improvement and others were raised during the meeting.
we approved our border by agreeing with neighboring countries so that this dispute does not occur.
The meeting was attended by heads of enterprises, representatives of SMEs, trade union organizations.
On August 17, mobile medical complexes will go to the Kurgan district of Akmola region, on August 19 and 20 - to good, wind, light regions.	medical examination will cover adolescents , youth , employers and workers organizations .	0,96
this is a monthly salary, stimulating the state apparatus, as well as bonuses for good work.	however , m.bashimov stressed that the state creates conditions for civil servants : competitive salary and bonuses for overtime .	0,96
the relevant procedure and regulations have been adopted, an order has been issued, registered with the bodies of the Ministry of Justice, "he said.
the highest rate in the South Kazakhstan region is 3.5 thousand people.
- It is possible to involve religious specialists, theologians and, of course, psychologists to educate young people.
Adaulbaev noted that the meeting of prosecutors general occupies a special place within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, supplementing multilateral cooperation.
this will save budget funds and determine the legislative basis, "Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Vladimir Bozhko said during the presentation of the bill.
a. Musinov informed his Israeli colleagues about the current political and socio-economic development of the country on the basis of the international initiative of Kazakhstan.
The people of Kazakhstan are very kind, our people strive for the better, want to help, "he said.
During the meeting, the heads of the two countries discussed the most effective aspects of economic development.
aa. Idrissov expressed gratitude for supporting Turkey's candidacy for temporary membership in the UN Security Council in 2017-2018 and his readiness to take part in the international specialized exhibition Expo 2017 in the capital.
concerts of the Kazakh-British trio are regularly held full house in the concert halls of the University of Cambridge, the London National Gallery, the Asian community of the Kingdom of Great Britain, as well as Almaty and the capital.
Hill Corporation LLP, which occupies its place in the domestic and foreign markets, plans to establish a new enterprise for the production of base oils.
According to the deputy, the Majilis must adopt 56 bills in accordance with the plan by October 7.
Kazakh cadets differ in their smart order, we have a high level of education, "the graduate said.
During the meeting, the Governor emphasized the significant contribution of the bank to the modernization of the economy of Kazakhstan, as well as the implementation of municipal projects.
since the development of the potential of bilateral economic relations is still ahead, our goal is to increase bilateral trade and attract a large amount of Kazakh investment in Bulgaria.
because the surplus stimulates competition and contributes to the stabilization of tariffs, "said S. Sesimkhanov.
currently, the basic pension payment is 11,182 tenge, and the average pension payment is 50,641 tenge (taking into account basic pension payments).
our society is the first generation that stops global warming, and we are the last generation that can solve the problem of global warming before it is postponed.
this training tested the psychological readiness of the military.
today it is necessary to apply all methods of pardon, to apply the security of other international structures in the context of dispute settlement, cessation of conflict and war, "N. Nazarbayev said.
The business incubator was launched thanks to the joint work of the Department for the Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of the East Kazakhstan Region with the UN programs.
third, the possibility of the transfer of cooperatives to membership in audit unions. firstly , it is intended to transfer the agricultural cooperatives from the category of non-commercial to commercial .
The construction of multi-storey buildings and urban facilities for all categories of the population with an estimated cost of 8.1 billion tenge has begun in 33 Akku microdistrict through the Zhilstroysberbank line.
a significant part of the program of the stay of Bulgarian parliamentarians in the capital is aimed at developing business ties, facilitating the exchange of investments, expanding cooperation in the tourism and cultural and humanitarian fields.
we see certain difficulties in the Russian and Chinese markets, "said K. Kelimbetov.
Currently, 655 Afghan citizens are studying in educational institutions in Kazakhstan.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, in Kazakhstan millions of people retain their jobs and continue to work.
According to him, Kazakhstan is ready to hold the next conference between the EU and the USA next fall.
five years ago we were in 94th place, that is, the indicators improved in 44 categories.
your corporation works in the field of hydrocarbon production, transportation and processing.
These business contracts will strengthen cooperation between the Samruk-kazyna group of white companies and Chinese companies in the non-oil sector and will contribute to the diversification of Kazakhstan's economy.
on the green platform near the baiterek monument there are flower arches.
congratulatory letters and telegrams to the head of state continue to arrive.
experts of the Venice Commission got acquainted with the work on the introduction of new information technologies into the activities of ships.
According to the information center, Danial Akhmetov noted the long-term and short-term priorities in which work is underway today.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the need to develop the infrastructure of preschool institutions based on the partnership of the state and property.
The parties also discussed issues of uniform legal regulation and improvement of national legislation to suppress traditional and new threats and security threats in the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
then the military will perform in the framework of the genre of performances, literary, artistic, vocal and dance.
these and other questions will be asked during the forum "# talks 2050: eastern Kazakhstan: today, tomorrow."
As of July 1 of this year, 3 domestic producers have already been involved in construction from Pavlodar region, the total amount of contracts concluded amounted to 760 million tenge.
we plan to popularize our work.
the heart of our country, the support of our independence - the holiday of the capital - is a holiday of all of Kazakhstan. the sun is depicted on the kazakhstan flag , under which there is steppe and the eternal sky .
During the meeting, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan and China are today at a new stage of cooperation.
they are surprised by the attitude of the head of state and state bodies to the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
First and foremost, field outreach. the first thing is to outreach at the local level .
On behalf of the Indian people, more than 1.2 billion people and on their own behalf congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his last birthday and expressed confidence that the visionary policy of the President of Kazakhstan will bring good to all the people of the country.
Despite the difficulties occurring outside the country, the state has been allocating grants over the past year.
we sent a draft plan to our Kazakh partners and hope that it will be adopted by the end of this year, by December, "said V. Putin.
the universal sports hall is designed for 500 spectators, the rink - for 1000 seats.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today between the capital and Paris there is a great potential for cooperation in trade, economic, investment, cultural, humanitarian, as well as aerospace spheres.
to the extent possible, they provided humanitarian and military-technical assistance.
I want to continue to serve my country.
In the last two stages, participants are trained in testing knowledge about the history, glory and combat feat of Soviet soldiers during the Second World War, the traditions of the armies of the CIS countries, and international humanitarian law.
It is noted that the acceptance of applications for participation in the competition will last from September 28 to October 25, 2015.
today we are going to award Aymbetov, the son of the hero of our people, the third cosmonaut of Kazakhstan. today we solemnly celebrate glorious son of our people , astronaut aidyn aimbetov .
the main piano prize was received by the Almaty rabiga dusembayev, and in the category "viola, cello, double bass" Pavel Romanenko was recognized as the honored main prize.
Taking into account the Canadian experience, it is first of all proposed to provide services for land relations, social payments and pensions, real estate, "the minister explained.
According to the results of the event, books and magazines about Kazakhstan and its President Nursultan Nazarbayev were presented.
thanks to our joint actions, the relevant work was carried out very short-term.
The world community is ready to support the holding of our various initiatives on the Italian platform. for us , world expo is important platform demonstrating achievements of mankind .
According to him, of these 938 people, 750 are employed and 141 are employed within the framework of the Employment Roadmap.
About 5,000 people a day.
In general, much work has been done to improve civil procedure legislation. " Nazarbayev.
As the candidate of legal sciences noted, the Constitution of Kazakhstan is aimed at developing the country and strengthening international relations.
U.Alene noted Kazakhstan's active work in international organizations, including Ecu.
the design capacity of the plant is the production of a power plant from various types of transformers up to 12 thousand per year.
The forum will be attended by representatives of business circles of Kazakhstan and Ukraine, representatives of state bodies and national holdings.
The President of the Senate supported the first visit of the head of the Costa Rican Foreign Ministry to the capital and expressed Kazakhstan's interest in strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation with this Latin American country.
state policy in Kazakhstan is very serious and many ethnocultural structures are developing, "explained the Deputy Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan Zauresh Baimoldin during the round table.
not stopping at this level, since June of this year, the Supreme Court has launched a project of electronic information interaction between the inter-district administrative court of Astana and ab. Astana in terms of sending administrative cases to the court in electronic form through the service "Judicial Cabinet."
According to the minister, the "samruk-kazyna" can master these funds by the end of this year.
we received a subsidy at the remuneration rate.
they are under pressure from individual migrants.
we are now in the transition to a new high-quality format of Kazakh-Crimean inter-parliamentary relations.
It is worth noting that the forum will host the award ceremony of the annual Patriot of the Year competition.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that today the economy of the republic is working in a difficult mode.
at the meeting of the committee, the bill "On the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters" was also considered.
As part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, the construction of a kindergarten for 280 places in the village of zhetybay in the Karakiyan district and a secondary school for 900 places in the village of Beineu has begun.
today he visited the construction site and noticed that the pace of his work is really large. we have inspected the construction site .
The memorandum between Kazakh and German partners provides new opportunities for further improvement of the system of housing construction savings.
Taraz Chemical Park is located in the Shu district of Zhambyl region.
Thus, during the implementation of the national project to organize and hold the Expo-2017 exhibition for 2013 2017, a platform was created for creating sites for demonstrating "green" technologies near the city of the capital.
military units, under the leadership of officers, master the features of combat training and military affairs, weapons and equipment.
The parties also agreed to consider the possibility of implementing joint projects on the processing of rare metals in Kazakhstan.
Due to the fact that this green energy is being reintroduced into the heating system, this year 15 million tenge was allocated from the local budget as 1 month excess reserve of diesel fuel.
Currently, work is underway on the implementation of the second stage for 2014-2016.
The program provides for the signing of a memorandum of cooperation between the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Russia.
The conference will be attended by a member of the Board of the Damu Enterprise Support Fund, gabit lesbekov, director of the regional branch of the city of Astana, Islambek kairbekov, a representative of the Ibraev rope and fair sarin.
According to the commercial director of the company e3p group, within 3.5 years they intend to develop a feasibility study of the project at their own expense and complete the object of silent drilling products-2 in accordance with high environmental standards.
to date, 70 performances have been shot, and the full timing is 150 scenes.
As the head of state noted, university graduates are the elite of the new generation of our country under conditions of sovereignty.
The company's presentation plans include African, South American, Australian countries.
In addition, according to the assistant, ministers will exercise political governance.
Since 2011, 1,500 applications were selected, 65 scientific projects worth 5.9 billion tenge with high commercial potential were financed.
In relation to the foundation, construction and installation work was completed, basement walls were installed, sewerage and heat pipelines were laid over external engineering networks.
The participants of the meeting discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation in the conditions of modernization of the public administration system and the national economy of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, it is planned to improve and expand the existing non-financial state support provided to small and medium-sized businesses by improving the quality of their content and the mechanism for providing, introducing international best practices and raising awareness.
During the implementation of the developed initiatives, it is planned to provide support to participating companies in three areas: advisory, financial, institutional.
Thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, the National Plan is being implemented - 100 concrete steps, "he said.
The head of state noted that work will continue between leading research centers on the exchange of information materials and copies of documents on history and ethnography, as well as on access to archival and library collections.
For many years, friendly relations have been established between Kazakhstan and Georgia. for many decades , georgia and kazakhstan established friendly relations .
From 2010 to October of the current year, 425 projects worth KZT 81,656,3 million were subsidized.
for example, the families of our athletes, large families, families of firefighters and foster children.
The trade turnover between the two countries from the end of 2010 to 2013 increased by 2 times - from $480 million to $938 million, "he said.
What are the advantages of our constitution?
Recall, on October 19, 2015, the 20th anniversary of the Civil Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan was celebrated.
As part of the state affordable housing program, more than 800 large and young families received the keys to apartments along with other socially protected residents.
And the country built by theaters predicts the upcoming 1st century. "
the first is a Marine Corps competition.
one of the most difficult periods is search and rescue.
By order of the head of state, the sagyns zamir sadykula was appointed executive secretary of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In recent years, there has been a process of stabilization, and we are pleased with this. we are delighted to witness the situation getting back to normal .
"Today, the coverage of children in preschool education is 78.6%.
in general, inflation trends are slowing down in Kazakhstan.
in a difficult international environment, with many national challenges and threats to security, this is an incredible achievement.
Exercises are held on the topic "Organization and implementation of response measures to a destructive earthquake."
and in another information space, the concentration of Islamists and extremists on the Internet is growing, "S. Lebedev added.
As an expert from Switzerland, an economist at the World Forum, roberto croti, human capital is very important.
the second factor that serves in our house for peace and harmony is tolerance of the Kazakh ethnic group. the second factor that works for peace and harmony in our common home is , of course , tolerant character of kazakh ethnic group .
At the end of the meeting, the guys made a presentation on the theme "Clean East - the Edge of Tourism," and a solemn ceremony of congratulating the teams took place in the House of Friendship of Peoples.
As the head of government noted, the result of this work will be a change in the public procurement system, including in the formation of the budget process.
local akimats, enterprises heard a children's voice.
on top, the company's image mark.
in my opinion, the main goal of the competition is to promote family values ​ ​ and concepts of family, marriage, family success. in my opinion , the main purpose of the competition is improvement of family values , enhance the image of family , marriage , family achievements .
According to the expert, if the governments of local communities worked together, this would be a successful strategy.
Of the 32 thousand grants, a third or 12 thousand 500 will be awarded to technical specialties, 6 thousand to pedagogical, 2 500 to agricultural. 12 500 grants will be allocated for technical specialties , 6000 for educational specialty , 2500 - agricultural .
What happened last week-August 20 is the free movement of the course, which allows our milk producers to equal prices for products of the Russian Federation. but what happened last week , on august 20 - the transition to the floating exchange rate - i am sure that it will help our producers of natural milk to align with the prices of russia , that is , the import will not be so cheap .
and Kazakhstan could play a major role in global food security.
don't forget to come to school and get your grades.	a large number of questions on logical thinking ,  he has stressed .
also in the field of information and communication - 193.1 thousand tenge (more than 1.6 times), transport and warehousing - 157.3 thousand tenge (more than 1.3 times).
8 batteries consisting of 48 military personnel take part in this competition.
The event was attended by representatives of more than 60 foreign companies, diplomatic missions of Finland, Switzerland and Kazakhstan.
teachers comprehensively developed their professional skills, took online courses, shared experiences with other international schools.
The Mayor of Vilnius highlighted the popularity of the Kazakhstan expo pavilion and focused on the development of cooperation in the field of tourism.
the situation in the global oil and gas industry affects, first of all, our economy and this health. today 's global oil and gas situation influences on kazakhstan 's economy .
at the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev and armin papperger discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, the possibility of implementing a joint project with rheinmetall in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, detailed information was provided on the structure of the control bodies and the stages of employment were announced.
this is the wear of goods, passenger cars and locomotives, railway infrastructure, issues related to the organization of the transshipment process, "he said.
It should be noted that the X forum of representatives of the creative and scientific intelligentsia of the CIS countries is taking place in the capital.
the bill is aimed at regulating legal relations for sports, cultural and other events. the bill aims to regulate the legal relations connected with the organization and carrying out cultural , sports and mass sports events .
its most important part is the Eurasian idea. the essential part of the reform is eurasian idea .
Therefore, the state has adopted several programs to get support for infrastructure development in Kazakhstan, "A. Ergazieva explained.
In addition, according to K. Iskakov, the company plans to open a polypropylene plant in the city, due to which prices for goods will fall again.
In his congratulations, he noted that the meetings held in recent years with the President of Kazakhstan testify to friendly relations between the two countries and strong contacts that have developed in various areas of cooperation.
According to him, today a new concept is being developed in the field of public procurement.
In recent years, the volume of industrial products in the region has been growing steadily. the volume of industrial production in the region shows a steady growth in recent years .
also a veteran of the Dossormunaigaz enterprise.
K.Tokaev gave a number of instructions to members of the state commission.
there you understand that military rank, age, nationality are not important, you remain neutral and remember that according to your behavior you write about the whole country.
Institutional development is one of the most important factors in the competitiveness of the State and includes public administration, legal and judicial systems and anti-corruption. development of the institutional environment is one of the most important factors of competitiveness of the country and covers the area of public administration , legal and judicial system , and fight against corruption .
we are in the middle of a market continent: large markets surround us, for example, China, Pakistan, India.
Recall that in Kazakhstan a union of light industry producers has been created.
within this view, they will be able to see the capital, Almaty, Shymkent and Aktau cities for free.
Kazakhstan's activities in the international arena, aimed at friendly neighborhood and cooperation, are warmly perceived by the world community and form respect for the people of the republic and its leader.
The project envisages the introduction of the transfer of French know-how partners, who apply the most effective world experience in the field of production of technical gases, observance of the principle of a green economy, and improvement of energy efficiency in the production process.
The scientist also spoke about other aspects of the reform of the "nation of a united future."
Recall that the capital is hosting a Kazakh-American business forum, in which representatives of more than 25 companies take part.
In turn, expert on economic integration of Armenia Lyusine Tumyan noted the events held between the two countries on participation in the specialized exhibition "expo-2017" and highly appreciated the organizational work of the Kazakh side.
The draft of the new master plan was prepared by order of the Mayor of Taldykorgan, Urbostil LLP.
in general, such problems are about 22% of all vacancies, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
he will also continue to carry out production and economic activities in this form until the end of the contract, "explained J. Keshubaev.
today's event is devoted to this particular issue, "said the adviser to the director.
The fishing economy of the Hamit rural consumer cooperative is dynamically developing.
The head of state launched the Nұrly zhol economic policy, which became an effective response to global challenges.
The Head of State congratulated the former Congressman on his birthday, wishing him good health, strength, well-being and wisdom.
We hope that the project of the golden group will open the way for Kazakh talented youth and raise it to the world level.
they received information on opportunities for obtaining benefits and support related to investments, the procedure for contacting investors on problematic issues and submitting applications for the implementation of investment projects.
growth will also be differentiated depending on the level of education, qualifications, seniority, etc.
Secretary of State According to the results of the visit, Abdykalikova gave specific instructions to state bodies.
The purpose of this trip is to show the proximity between Europe and Kazakhstan.
the best prefabricated areas, kokshetau, stepnogorsk, atbasar and sandyktau district.
in agriculture, gross output amounted to 316.6 billion tenge with an increase of 3.2%.
In addition, according to the bill, the deficit of the republican budget in 2016-2018 will remain in previously defined amounts.
The predominant share of investments has been developed by private sector enterprises, accounting for 69.1 per cent of the total.
starting next year, the "investor service center" will be opened, which will serve entrepreneurs on the principle of "one window."
and the Bakirov family (Shieli district) received the nomination "fertile shanyrak," the Shaken family (Zhanakorgan district) - "health gardener," the Saxenbaev families (Kazalinsky district) - "ray of knowledge."
The UN General Assembly supported the initiative of Kazakhstan to declare August 29 the day of the movement against nuclear tests. the un general assembly has supported the initiative of kazakhstan to proclaim august 29 as the international day against nuclear tests .
those who chose this profession will remain faithful to their cause for the rest of their lives, "said K. Abdrakhmanov.
In 2015, the sowing campaign was drained, now 1000 tons have been mined, "said D. Pluzhnik.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, despite the decrease in trade turnover and investment activity, the potential of Kazakh-Ukrainian relations is very high.
The Kazakhstan agro-industrial corporation is creating an industrial-technological park and a park of agricultural and communal equipment.
The Head of State also wished stable and peaceful development of Kyrgyzstan.
I sincerely congratulate you on your victory. i sincerely congratulate you !
the largest indicator in the regions. the best professors of europe held the examination .
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the expedition included members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of the branch of the Nұr Otan party, scientists, local historians, representatives of ethnocultural associations and youth of the region.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Combating the Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime and the Financing of Terrorism," aimed at improving the system of combating the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism.
multinational Kazakhstan should adhere to this principle for the development of a strong state, "said Mr. Yandiev.
I am sure that, while maintaining labor safety, they will conquer new labor lines, "concluded the general director of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP baktiyar Krykpyshev.
The football field has become one of the largest projects implemented under this memorandum this year, "the statement said.
production of military optics for military equipment, production of gold ingots and enriched ores, energy-saving double glazing, "he said.
According to him, the committee is actively working to promote energy efficiency.
at education of the younger generation it is necessary to extend experience of nazarbayevovedeniye scientific education center and center of educational education "The m g_l_k ate".
During the meeting, the results of the state scientific and technical expertise and expert and analytical results on the works recommended for awarding the state prize were considered.
I want to assure you that on the day when you celebrate this special event among your family and friends, I have no doubt that important relations between the two countries will continue to develop for the benefit of our peoples, "the congratulation says.
the history of our people, as we know, consists not only of cruelty and cruelty. this year new russian companies , companies from georgia and armenia have joined our exhibition .
we are honored and honored to receive a copy of the winning flag. for us it is a great honor to take victory banner in our garrison .
at the enlarged session, a member of the political council of the Almaty city branch of the party, deputy akim of the city, head of the education and health sector Zaura Amanzholova made a report.
In this document, several sections are devoted to the optimization of tax and customs procedures, the introduction of the "one window" principle during customs procedures, the integration of tax and customs systems, as well as the introduction of a customs clearance regime "after the fact," said M.azbekova.
President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko stressed that the achievements of our country in various areas, achieved over the past decades, are inextricably connected with the multifaceted activities of Nursultan Nazarbayev as President of Kazakhstan.
to date, about 2 billion have been developed.
In turn, Mr. Andreichenko noted that Belarus highly appreciates the achievements of Kazakhstan and is pleased to increase the authority of our country in the international arena.
the group was headed by the Honored Sports Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, President of the RCP "Federation of Modern and Sports Dance" aliya Tusupbekova.
the adopted amendments are aimed at removing barriers to the work of subsoil users, improving the sectoral legal framework, improving the investment climate and attracting foreign direct investment in the industry.
Also during the concert, the song of N. Nazarbayev will be performed. "Native country," as well as the Serbian folk melody "Chachak Kolo" will be sounded.
in general, Kazakhstan is ready to send five officers to each UN mission in Western Sahara, Côte d'Ivoire, Haiti and Liberia.
according to the report, this is the expansion of the greenhouse complex and the production of mushrooms, the production of furniture and salt, printing, transport service places, freight and passenger transportation.
Speaking about the high role in the global energy market, Kazakhstan was invited as a guest of honor, Foreign Minister Yerlana Idrissov presented at the summit.
all warehouse logistics is provided for by the agreement, "said the company.
According to him, fellow countrymen of Germany are of great importance for the presentation of Kazakhstan.
prospects of Russian-Kazakh cooperation in the sphere of the agro-industrial complex, "round tables, a meeting of the Kazakh-Russian business council, and a youth forum.
According to him, the production in Kazakhstan of the necessary means for the oil and gas industry - pumps, oil qualities, large parts, etc. - does not stop and today it is supplied to the country's enterprises.
This year we met to discuss issues of cooperation and interaction in the field of agriculture, ensuring food security.
So, for example, in 2014, more than 20 thousand private and wholesale buyers came to the event, this year 7 exhibitors from Russia, Ukraine, Germany, Armenia, Georgia and Kazakhstan take part in the exhibition, a total of 60 states.
our main goal is to explain the anti-corruption strategy. our main aim is to explain the essence of the anti-corruption strategy , each resident of the region .
the Deputy Prime Minister assured that "there is nothing to worry about, but about the fact that the volume of water at the dam and on the Volga River does not pose a danger to the population."
For 3 days of testing, 13 applicants scored the maximum possible points - 100 points.
For 4 days of testing, 15 applicants scored the maximum possible points - 100 points.
our energy and raw materials structure is very well integrated into the global market.
According to him, thanks to such measures, the world community supports Kazakhstan's initiatives.
the centre's administration, the centre's financial services regulatory committee, the central court and other necessary bodies.
The meeting took place as part of an agreement on the exchange of information on goods and transport of international transportation through the customs borders of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and the People's Republic of China.
nevertheless, the agricultural sector has not yet become a pillar of economic diversification.
Of the allocated 200 billion tenge, 192.7 billion tenge was allocated to finance 1069 projects.
As noted in the report, the increase in the number of SMEs increased in the areas of Belogorye, Bukovna, Karatobe, poplar.
it will combine art, architecture, design and technology.
Therefore, coordination is a basic principle of standardization, "said a ksi representative.
we must bring the investment climate in line with the standard of this organization.
One of the important topics of the meeting was interaction in the field of uranium enrichment.
they want to get from Kazakhstan a system of values ​ ​ of Asian culture and introduce it into their system of values, "said Sh.esimov.
today we are discussing 3 laws, on access to information, on the fight against corruption, public councils - this is a law created through initiatives.
In total, about 500 military personnel will take part in the competitions, which will be held until June 26.
according to the instructions of the head of state, firstly, the gold of Kazakhstan should be completely processed on the territory of our country.	it also establishes liability for violation in this sphere ,  minister for investment and development of kazakhstan asset issekeshev said .
two new laws should be highlighted in that regard.
During the conference, Ad.Daulbayev held talks with the attorneys general of Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Mongolia, Malaysia, Azerbaijan, South Korea and the leadership of the prosecutors general of the People's Republic of China and the United Arab Emirates, as well as with the director of the office for combating fraudulent crimes of Great Britain and the leadership of the H.
foreign and Kazakhstani specialists with extensive experience in economic and investment activities, representatives of the world's largest companies - potential investors and financial institutions.
Based on these approaches, we introduce such classes as leadership, strategic management, talented management, stress management, effective communication with society, "said A. Mukhamedzhanova.
if we consider the problems of today's clinics, then the first is a very difficult call to the clinic, the second is a long line.
According to the Minister, the historical and cultural development of Kazakhstan increases the interest of the foreign scientific community.
state bodies of the two countries paid special attention to mutual analytical prices between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan on the implemented measures related to trade and economic cooperation, ensuring stability and security in Central Asia and a number of other issues.
Kazakh cosmonaut and crew members, Gennady Padalka, andreas mogensen and representatives of the meeting group, transport 2 helicopters of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Kazaviakutkara": "mi-8" and "Eurocopter-45."
cooperation with rio tinto is strategic in terms of attracting investment, as well as technology transfer and training.
In turn, M.Higgins highly appreciated the dynamic development of Kazakhstan under the leadership of the head of state and its role in strengthening international peace and security.
The age of criminal responsibility for embezzlement, robbery and extortion in order to humanize criminal policy is from 14 to 16 years.
Asar Zhumagaliyev congratulated the graduates on successful graduation.
first, the application of Japanese technological experience in action.
To date, the commission has done a lot of work. nowadays the commission has done a great job .
today you have become real defenders of the Fatherland. today you have become defenders of the fatherland .
For the residents of the capital, it was a wonderful festive dinner.
Kazakh-Chinese cooperation began six months ago. kazakh-chinese cooperation began more than six months ago .
Currently, more than 200 projects are submitted. as of today there are more than 200 projects .
Carpets of the 19th-20th century, presented here, are made by hand.
it meets world and international requirements, "said Darasov.
According to the expert, the expansion of the borders of the EAEU will allow establishing trade relations between the two countries.
Shares of 3.0 legal entities in the amount of 2 million tenge, securities and securities in the amount of 670 million tenge and 654.2 securities in the amount of 21 million tenge were legalized.
At the initiative of the leader of the nation in the world, a decade of rapprochement of international cultures is taking place with the support of the UN, "he said.
During the event, issues related to the quality of the armed forces were discussed, including the combat readiness of troops, military discipline and law and order in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, tasks to improve it.
In addition, 8 information stands were installed at the venues, 1990 booklets and brochures were distributed, 1239 meetings were held.
The meeting discussed the prospects of cooperation between the company and Kazakh automakers, issues of activity in the country and its expansion.
the center has implemented about 15 "green" technologies, such as pyrolysis heating, solar panels and water headers, LED and phytodiode lighting, energy-efficient pumps.
relations between the capital and Vilnius have long been established, and we are interested in further strengthening cooperation between the two cities, the mayor of the capital said.
The President of Kazakhstan, after the first stage of strengthening independence, which became the most difficult, was forced to meet with threats of a new system that required the head of state to change the style of government and form new qualities, the ambassador said.
for example, systems of exchange of payments, currency regulation law, tariffs of the highway network, identification of excise tax rates, import licensing, customs value.
To date, 315 vacancies from 27 employers in the following specialties are presented at the job fair: engineer, psychologist, doctor, programmer, driver, in the service sector - cooks, managers and support workers, the report said.
According to the press service of the national agency, the dialogue platform is divided into several sites: metal coatings, light and electrical products, climatic equipment, pumps, waterproofing materials.
Now, starting from January 1, 2016, the whole month will work at the maximum tariff, "he explained.
in addition to the spending market, among consumers are Poland, the Baltic States, Iran.
We propose to increase the share of 25% of trading places provided to these local producers to 50% so that they have more opportunities to sell their products, "he said today at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in a selector mode.
During the work, scientists discussed the problems of studying the migration processes of the population of Kazakhstan and neighboring countries: methods and prospects, ethnodemographic ethnopolitics.
According to the center, during the year the necessary conditions were created for the fruitful work of the business incubator through the "Society of the Will of the Disabled."
I also want to thank for help in the construction of a health center, which is planned to be built in Semipalatinsk for people affected by nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk test site, "the head of state said.
The members of the coordinating council shall adopt the final recommendations.
The airmobile troops of Kazakhstan are one of the combat-ready and mobile branches of our army.
According to him, the wording of this bill consists in the transfer of taxes to the local level.
In accordance with the conditions of modernization, the new transport should be equipped with modern systems of informatization, passenger counting, video surveillance, air conditioning and heating.
1.5 years ago, at a meeting with the Gagik Harutyan, we talked about the legal structure of the two countries. about 1.5 years ago , there was a joint meeting with the chairman of the armenian constitutional court gagik harutyunyan , we talked about the legal system of our countries .
According to him, the implementation of institutional reforms on national identity is successfully implemented by the state program.
The consultations noted the high level of Kazakh-Finnish cooperation in the bilateral format, as well as in the framework of international organizations.
but not all of these are subject to privatization.
During the visit, the head of state was presented with a new terminal and reported on the work done on the reconstruction of the airport, the acquisition of new special equipment.
in the military unit 41433 of the Western regional command, favorable conditions were created for military personnel occupying the guard.
according to foreigners, they are satisfied with the working conditions in Kazakhstan and the amount of wages.
thirdly, despite the importance of economic indicators, true leadership requires the ability to balance between political, economic, ethnic and interreligious processes taking place in society in the future.
Recall that in the capital there is a national teleconference with the participation of the head of state N. Nazarbayev, dedicated to the implementation of the programs "Nұrly zhol" and industrial-innovative development.
I want to tell young people that if you have a desire to become an interesting business idea and a successful businessman, then take part in the startup "bolashak" competition.
Today, the capital is the leader in the amount of guarantees in terms of portfolio volume, "said I.Airbekov.
improved positions will attract foreign investors and open new industries in Kazakhstan.	traditionally , the competitive advantages of kazakhstan are labor market efficiency ( the 18th place ) and macroeconomic stability ( the 25th place ) ,  the expert said .
Recall that the goal of the aparubus system is to unify the system of selling tickets for bus routes in Kazakhstan.
The Governor's Office of Astana allocated 500 million tenge for the implementation of the regional program of financing of the city of Astana, the development fund - 1 billion tenge.
this is a very big, high task.
According to him, during the first presidency, the Vatican showed high results.
regional security and the global agenda will also be addressed.
I think that holding this conference will allow Kazakhstan to show itself as the main technological hub, "the president said in a congratulatory letter to the forum participants.
my book is very simple. the book is very simple - it 's a book of eyewitness .
according to him, the method of concluding optimized contracts for all minerals will be introduced.
Note that all programs between the "cub" and the "future," established by the head of state, are created for the younger generation.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, environmental policy should be aimed at stimulating and widely involving business in solving issues of resource saving, introducing waste-free technologies in all areas of economic activity.
To train high-class specialists, first of all, investments are needed, "said the Secretary of State.
The event was attended by German writers, representatives of the intellectual environment of Germany, the Kazakh diaspora and Kazakh students.
As of June 29 of this year, pensions and benefits were assigned to 1367 applicants.
we, as business representatives, leave statements to the government and the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan for about six months, since after changing the tenge exchange rate, our products have lost competitiveness compared to imported products, including in comparison with the Russian Federation, many poultry farms are forced to reduce production volumes, "he said.
this road regulates transport relations not only with the Russian Federation, but also with Azerbaijan and Iran.
the actual volume of industrial production amounted to 98.4%, "the report said.
In this regard, we want to establish feedback between citizens and organizations.
In addition, the work of the service "sending an administrative case" on sending administrative cases to the courts in electronic form was presented through the "judicial office."
iv Paralympic Games were held in Pavlodar.
these indicators are mainly adapted to the requirements of the study by reducing, "the expert added.
The areas proposed for establishing a partnership are the construction and construction materials industry. the areas in which we will cooperate are the construction , building materials industry .
According to the expert, many experts, including the World Bank, praised these indicators.
The school of the village of Pravoe, Mangistau district was awarded the title "Best Institution of Secondary Education-2015" and a grant of 17 million tenge.
earlier he headed the state inspection committee in the agro-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Last year, the Kyrgyz training ground "ala-too" became the venue for the "inviolable brotherhood."
we used technical means to optimize transportation times, use new logistics lines and reduce freight transportation costs.
This applies to the construction and reconstruction of socially significant facilities, road repair, and the operation of public transport.
financial support provided by the state and the Baiterek holding allows obtaining affordable financing through the kdb network for a long time, which in turn is due to the expansion of sales markets and the resolution of priority issues for the development of enterprises in the chemical industry of Kazakhstan, "said Maksutbek Yesenov, Chairman of the Board of Kazphosphat LLP.
the production was staged according to the book of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev "in the wake of history," each artist wants to take part in this theatrical show.
Every year, the city authorities think about the upcoming events, on holidays guests from different parts of Kazakhstan come to the capital.
C. As noted by Rakhimbekova, the green economy is considered in the context of combating global climate change and improving energy efficiency.
We plan to create a joint venture in Kazakhstan.
Almaty and Beijing claim to host the Olympiad.
Almaty and Beijing claim to host the Olympiad.
The signing ceremony took place during the meeting of the Chairman of the Union of Engineering Workers of Kazakhstan and the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Korean Engineering Association "koami" yang tet park.
the sun, its meadow, eagle and the image of the national golden ornament.
The council was attended by representatives of the presidential administration, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, members of the scientific and expert council of the assembly, representatives of ministries and departments, etc.
Semipalatinsk engineering has the relevant documentation and equipment, which will be launched this year.
an investment project with a capacity of 1,400 heads (cmm) of small cattle per day was implemented with financing from the Kazagro national holding.
now our companies will be able to fly from any city of Kazakhstan to such megacities as not only Beijing, thief, sleigh, but also Shanghai, Xi'an, Chengdu.
the German delegation includes deputies filip lengsfeld, stefan mayer, heinrich certic, karin strenz, as well as a representative of the federal government on migration and minority issues, hartmut cats and a confidant of the German Embassy in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to pay special attention to the development of the petrochemical industry, which, in conditions of low resource prices, can provide a fairly high value added.
The head of state noted that the formation of a favorable investment climate was and remains one of the main priorities of our country.
The exhibition is organized by the international confederation of the Union of Artists and the central house of artists.
the inclusive modernization of n.nazarbayev was perceived as a new word in the world practice of reform policy.
We think that all parents are glad that children cannot study well in such schools, "said the chairman of the capital's education department.
this is really the Kazakh way. it really can be called as kazakhstani way .
Chairman of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan Igor Horns:
the palace has an area of ​ ​ 36 thousand 720 square meters and 57.0 meters.
Approaches to cooperation consist in the exchange of experience and information, the identification of barriers to trade, cooperation on issues of Hungarian agriculture and the commission of bilateral interest, including joint projects involving member countries, "the statement said.
we will make sure that your investments are reliable and successful, "concluded Nikolic.
Kyrgyzstan became the fifth state after Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia.
we can proudly say that the native law of Kazakhstan is a joint work of its people and leader, "said the chairman of the constitutional council of Kazakhstan Igor Horns.
military personnel perform complex tasks in the geostrategic areas of protection of the southern region of the country and make a special contribution to strengthening the defense of the state.
this platform will be gradually supplemented by public services, and citizens will actively participate in the process of monitoring budget expenditures. gradually , the platform will be filled with all public services , and citizens will be involved in monitoring budget expenditures .
the growth of production is primarily associated with an increase in the number of livestock and poultry in agricultural structures, "he said.
In 2014, there were 1 thousand 824, that is, 42%, "said S. Nusupov.
The closing ceremony ended with the presentation of the flag of the international judo federation of the national federation of Hungary, where the next world championship will be held.
16 servicemen of the military unit 22534 entered the exhibition organization of modern weapons and items of radiation, chemical and biological protection.
As noted in the report, at a meeting with Governor of South Kazakhstan region Askar Myrzakhmetov and Chairman of the Board of Development Bank of Kazakhstan bolat Zhamishev told about the development of Shymkent airport.
one of them - "luminaries of the night capital" - was presented as a gift to Pauline.
In 2013, 3,506 cases of suicide were registered in Kazakhstan, 292 of them among minors.	as the deputy director of the department has noted , in 2013 kazakhstan registered 3506 cases of suicide , 292 of them - by minors .	0,97
A delegation of judges participated in a round table on the application of the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, a conference on international arbitration, and a summit on the role of national courts in international arbitration.	the delegation participated in a roundtable discussion on the application of the un convention on the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards , conference on international arbitration , and also the summit on the role of national courts in international arbitration .	0,97
The agreement on cooperation in the field of culture includes the development of bilateral relations in the field of preservation, modernization and preservation of historical and cultural monuments.	the new agreement involves the development of bilateral relations in the field of conservation , restoration , preservation of monuments of history and culture .	0,97
The Kazakh-Finnish business forum on technology and educational interaction will be held on October 6 at 10.00 in the marriottastanahotel hotel.
after completing a retraining course, he studied according to the "basics of entrepreneurship."
economic growth is ensured by growth in the production of goods by 6.6%.
in this regard, Kazakhstan is a classic example.
During the conversation, the parties discussed priority areas of Kazakh-Israeli cooperation, outlined ways to intensify cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres, as well as in the framework of international organizations.
Riga has a special place in the history of the capital.
Kazakhstan is Germany's main energy saving partner.
people with finance and investment work with those who can help themselves.
For this support, it is important to convey relevant information through the garden, "the expert said.
Recall that in April of this year, the embassies of Kazakhstan and Romania, with the support of the Prahov Industrial Chamber (Romania), held a scientific and practical conference on the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and issues of trade and economic cooperation between the regions of the two countries.
According to him, in the region, as part of the Nұrly zhol state program, the Ural Flood Saratov motorway is being reconstructed.
At the international congress, the ambassador made a presentation on Kazakhstan's investment potential and economic opportunities.
the parties discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the talks between President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of China Xi Jinping, held in Beijing in early September.
in the first direction, transfers funds to bank accounts with exemption from the obligation to store them and payments are not charged to them. the first option - to credit to a bank account without obligation for storage and duty payment , with the possibility to dispose without restrictions .
According to the department, this type of product involves the use of export, pre-export and leasing products.
During the meeting, the parties discussed trade and economic relations and bilateral cooperation.
this is the interconnection of the system of social understanding and friendship, trust.
In the bill, we are considering strengthening the institution, "he said.
On June 1, the children went to the Baldauren republican educational and leisure center.
small citizens - future students of the 1st grade "I am a citizen of Kazakhstan" received information about the history of their countries during the game based on quiz questions.
If we recall our first application for holding the Olympiad, then during this period the city's economy doubled, the infrastructure improved, sports and cultural facilities were improved. over this period , the city 's economy has doubled , infrastructure , facilities and sports culture have been improved .
graduated from Columbia University as part of the future presidential program and in 2008 received a master's degree in public administration in the program of economic policy management.
As the head of state noted, the construction of the state is a very difficult process, requiring emergency and responsibility.
I want to congratulate Kazakhstanis on Capital Day. i want to congratulate kazakhstan on the holiday - the day of the capital .
as the President said, a multimodal transport corridor is also very important for Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the republic intends to form an open labor market.
During the meeting, the participants summed up the council's activities for 2014-2015 and discussed issues of further improvement of cooperation in the field of natural and man-made emergencies.
The meeting also discussed the participation of Italian companies in the development of public-private partnership and attracting investments and innovations in health care in Kazakhstan.
As noted by B. Bulegenov, this is a vivid manifestation of the correctness of the course in the field of interethnic relations, tolerance and consent, N. Early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan on April 26, 2015, which received the support of Nazarbayev.
Following the v summit of the Turkic-speaking Cooperation Council, the Astana declaration of the fifth summit of the Turkic Council was adopted.
they will be installed at 177 stations, "said the director of the branch" Directorate of the backbone network "ktj" and "ak."
It should be noted that we also tried to cover our activities with information resources, "he said.
According to him, according to unisef research, a number of councils have been developed for implementation at various levels in sectors such as education, health, local and central authorities.
In this nomination, the winner was awarded the lion's prize, "the statement said.
the subject of the act is aimed at the practical use of computer technology. "
the new plant will consist of 4 workshops.
Thus, in Aktobe in the next 3 years 390 families will receive housing.
production of natural gas and non-ferrous ores has also increased.
Recall that the capital is hosting an international conference "Ways to make unified decisions and standards of the assembly sphere in achieving social security goals."
By the beginning of military exercises, all our units, all military personnel, each unit of weapons and military equipment should be one hundred percent ready, "said Lieutenant Colonel Yerjan Meirmanov, chief of staff of the 5th mechanized brigade of the military unit 85395.
The opening ceremony of the center was attended by akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev, chairman of the National Economic Chamber of Kazakhstan "Atameken" ablay myrzakhmetov, representatives of banks and development institutions and regional business associations.
Within 3-4 years, we plan to carry out this transition, "he said.
thus, the regulatory framework is approaching the modern requirements of the international level.
Governor of Karaganda region Nurmukhambet Abdibekov held a meeting on the construction of social and cultural facilities.
the Silk Road economic belt is one of the global initiatives that unite dozens of countries into economic development. the economic belt of the silk road is one of the global initiatives involving dozens of countries in the overall logic of economic development .
B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions to state bodies regarding the social development of Mangistau region.
concluding the meeting, executive secretary N. Cow in the new economic conditions. "
According to the Director General, to ensure a strong turnover of the "scientific portal" during the year, it is planned to hold explanatory seminars with a visit to the regions of the country.
in this regard, we cannot compare economic policies with previous crises.
all schools will be supplemented by school psychologists before the start of the new school year. all the schools will employ school psychologists .
we still intend to develop transport infrastructure, despite the problems in our country.
In addition, the Damu Fund plans to ensure increased access of entrepreneurs to credit trading resources.
Recall that the Turkmen youth choir was created from students of Azerbaijani, Kazakhstani, Kyrgyz, Turkish, Tatar conservatories.
during this time, the newly opened jobs will amount to 2.4 thousand people.
our Kazakh character and its main features: openness, spiritual wealth, warmth of our hearts, hospitality, love for the world, wisdom and hard work.
at the meeting of the commission, the issue of awarding an international scholarship "bolashak" to applicants who passed the preliminary competitive selection was considered.
Aktobe, East Kazakhstan, Mangistau, Almaty and Almaty teams gathered at the sports base in panfilovo.
They collected information about 7 thousand 303 families and filled out consultation sheets.
According to the energy department of Astana, as of August 7, 2015, the implementation of overhaul measures amounted to 76%, the current repair - 68.9%, the report said.
The First Deputy Prime Minister also noted that within the framework of sectoral programs, the implementation of funds was monitored.
Also, during the visit, the head of Kazatomprom will hold bilateral business meetings with representatives of companies operating in the nuclear energy sector.
today Kazakh traditions have become common values. "
on the eve of Capital Day, we suggest looking at the capital in a new way - through the prism of geometry.
The main indicator of such a partnership is the capital and related cities. " Aliyev.
According to him, since last year, 2 thousand 50 students from areas with excess labor have been sent under the Impulse-2050 project.
to orphanages with honors, memorable gifts, unforgettable impressions, photographs, bazaars for family and friends.
to solve this crisis, it is necessary to continue diplomatic steps, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
twice a year, by telemost, the government reports on the work done in the first half of the year.
According to the Italian military attaché, holding the Vincentz beacon in Kazakhstan will allow athletes to train normally before international competitions.
The head of state stressed the need to strengthen cooperation between the prosecutor's offices of the CIS countries.
increasing the volume of cargo traffic between the two countries, increasing transit in the general transport corridor.
during the meeting a. Dzhaksybekov discussed the priority tasks facing the company, such as developing an action plan for the exhibition, holding the national day of Kazakhstan at expomilano 2015 with the participation of the head of state, as well as holding a retreat of the State Commission for the preparation and holding of the international specialized exhibition Astana Expo 2017, scheduled for June 20, 2015, chaired by Prime Minister K. Massimov.
in the military unit platoon sergeant, physical training instructor.
Benefits are also provided for children from low-income families and large families in football, tennis and other sports.
Within the framework of the opening of the Kazakhstan center, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the "center of international programs" for the training of Chinese language interpreters under the "future" program between white and Shanghai foreign language universities.
During the workshop on mutual negotiations under the leadership of the President of ktz express a sanjar yelubayev, the issue of creating a special working group of the special economic zone for the implementation of joint projects and the formation of a model for the development of the industrial zone of Europe was discussed.
government services in mobile format are available via mobile application and sms.
In connection with the growth of sales of expensive onions, which this year increased on sale, prices for products rose by 16% from 100 to 116 tenge/kg.
Thus, for the first time, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted a draft law "On the preparation of conclusions on the draft constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On amendments and additions to the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
- 3,342 thousand objects worth 24,908,496 tenge.
It is noted that the goal of the championship is the implementation of the state program for the development of physical culture and sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We will present this competition by December 1, "he said.
so we have an inverted pyramid. so we have an inverted pyramid .
The Ministry of the Interior is working specifically to prevent juvenile delinquency and to ensure that their rights are protected in order to interact with the State authorities concerned. the ministry of internal affairs of kazakhstan together with the interested state bodies carried out the purposeful work on the prevention of juvenile delinquency and protection of their rights .
5,600 Russian enterprises were involved in Kazakhstan.
the country is currently awaiting the prior approval of the expo secretariat.
conditions have been created for attracting participants, regulation of office work, law, language and legal proceedings has been introduced, "N. Nazarbayev said.
It began on September 11 this year, "Mr.
According to him, in this regard, a new program is needed to support small businesses to create conditions for fighting other WTO member countries in a competitive environment.
It should be noted that the training of the center-2015 is scheduled for the period from September 14 to 20.
It is planned to produce 56 thousand tons of pipe racks in Kazakhstan using the resources of joint ventures "Dashmi" and "Ersai," the agency said.
these include budget lines, such as reimbursement of expenses of enterprises abroad, holding an exhibition, promotions, certification, registration of trademarks.
Young people, taking into account social, economic and environmental factors, try to improve their lives by teaching them the knowledge of socially vulnerable segments of the population.
Following the meeting, the head of eex said that he would take part in EXPO-2017.
According to B.Sagintayev, unfavorable weather conditions were observed in the west, southeast.
In addition, the region pays great attention to attracting foreign investment.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO is an important step for the enterprises of the republic, as it is necessary to adapt in accordance with the requirements of local and foreign producers.
To increase the level of education, we will continue to improve the material and technical equipment of schools, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek.
During the meeting, the parties signed an agreement on participation in the Astana Expo 2017 exhibition.
At the end of the year, it is planned to open traffic on one lane from the capital to temirtau.
unfortunately, the system of venture capital investments has not fully developed. unfortunately , we have not yet fully developed system of venture capital investments .
According to him, a roadmap for the coverage of children by a preschool institution has been developed.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev, speaking at the inauguration on April 29, 2015, took the initiative of 5 institutional reforms - the plan of the nation and "100 concrete steps" of its implementation.
In addition, Kazakhstan voluntarily undertook to reduce greenhouse gas emissions - all this attracted the attention of the Government of Kazakhstan to energy-efficient construction.
The head of the Kazakh delegation during his speech at the opening of the general conference noted the achievements of our country in the field of nuclear disarmament, noted the successful cooperation between Kazakhstan and Aecha in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
According to him, this document will give a new impetus to the prevention among minors by resolving issues of their employment.
opening the meeting, the Secretary of State noted the important role of the media in strengthening the statehood of Kazakhstan and congratulated the representatives of the garden on the upcoming professional holiday - the day of communication and information workers.
its main task is to determine the professional, business and personal qualities, potential of each person.
We constantly monitor the quality of construction, "said the deputy akim of the region.
We also intend to attract athletes who will represent Kazakhstan at the Olympics in Rio 2016, "he said.
The press conference will be attended by Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Technological Research Sanzhar Iztleuov and Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC National Agency for Technological Research.
Also, the meeting announced proposals for cooperation in the field of production of railway equipment, electrical insulation materials, agricultural equipment, production of oil and gas equipment, meat and milk processing.
Technically, it is very difficult to make blood circulation, "said y.py.
winners will be able to place the "people's brand" sign on the packaging of their products for two years and will be presented at EXPO-2017 in the capital.
the length of participation in the pension system is set at 50% of the subsistence minimum with 10 years or less, after 10 years the size for each year increases by 2% and with at least 35 years of service is equal to the subsistence minimum.
Today, our department has implemented all the tasks for the implementation of the first five-year plan of industrialization, in 2012 a law was adopted, a comprehensive plan was developed. today , the ministry completed the basic tasks of the first five-year plan of industrialization : a law in 2012 ; a comprehensive plan developed with the german energy agency dena ; sectoral program " energy saving - 2020 . "
According to him, the law provides for the introduction of the institution of anti-corruption monitoring.
this is the elaboration of issues of cargo transportation through Kazakhstan, cooperation in the coal industry and issues of cargo transportation along the new road laid by the Caspian Sea to the coastal Persian Gulf.
for us, the main thing is that quality meets international requirements.
As a result, it is planned to repair 214 km of roads, of which 51 km will be commissioned in 2016, "the report said.
At the same time, all complex facilities will be brought into line with the national model of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is the true direction in unity and unity.
the program of each item reflects the materials necessary for production, "said the rector.
they can attract foreign labour without permits and agreements. they can attract foreign labor without permission to work , a visa regime for the center staff and their families will be simplified .
according to him, one of the main factors for economic growth is an increase in lending.
if a citizen has less than 10 years of service or no seniority at all, then the size of the basic pension is 50% of the subsistence minimum (cd).
For this, it is necessary to create favorable conditions for increasing the productivity of companies, "he said. chakrabarti.
In 2014, according to these services, 1,647 certificates were issued, 35 training centers were registered, 621 certificates were issued in 6 months of 2015 and 33 training centers were registered.
You came to school, you became a student!
the forthcoming subsoil code, many guarantees to investors, a complete transition to the Australian legal system, full access to geological information, the introduction of international standards, and the development of the stock market of junior companies.
we can disclose this hidden activity only by acting together, "said the Secretary of the Security Council of Kazakhstan.
Today we discussed ways to strengthen cooperation in the trade, economic, coal, transport, logistics and agro-industrial complex. today we extensively discussed bilateral trade and economic relations .
first of all, the president made such a decision in order to ensure closer interaction and coordination of cooperation between city services and the national company.	commenting the situation , a.dzhaksybekov said :  president made such an appointment in order to ensure synergy and closer interaction of urban services and national companies .
worldskills is a direction aimed at popularizing working professions, improving the level of professional training and qualification status and standards, "he said.
The volume of agricultural products in the first half of the year increased by 5.6% and amounted to 36.3 billion tenge.	according to her , the volume of agricultural output in the 1st half increased by 5.6 % and amounted to 36.3 billion tenge .	0,98
this norm is proposed in order to solve the debt problems of mortgage borrowers and socially vulnerable people, "he said.
One of his directions was the "eternal country."
For three years, 317 applications were submitted to the competition for the title "Best Social Project," of which 64 became winners.
The main purpose of the Committee on Emergency Situations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan is to firmly protect the territory and citizens of the country from various emergency situations.
It is very important for us that France officially confirmed its participation in the EXPO and appointed a commissioner general, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Also, the presidents of Kazakhstan and South Africa discussed topical issues on the international agenda.
they discussed the scientific and educational aspects of preparing and implementing anti-corruption policy, improving anti-corruption mechanisms in the public service system of the Republic of Kazakhstan, preventing corruption in the field of state and business relations, the report said.
In addition, this will increase the competitiveness of finished products, "said Andrei Slepnev, member of the board (minister) for trade of the republic.
all winners received a cash prize.
books on Kazakhstan published in Turkish were presented to the participants.
2015. Natural growth of the population of the republic in January-June 2014. Compared to January-June, the growth amounted to 127.2 (126.4) thousand people, an increase of 0.8 or 0.6%. natural population growth in january-june 2015 has been increased by 0.8 people or 0.6 % and has amounted to 127.2 ( 126.4 ) thousand people compared with january-june 2014 .
Foreign Ministers discuss prospects and ways to strengthen bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey
the goal is to strengthen cooperation in the naval sphere.
The total estimated cost of construction of station turbine No. 2 is more than 6.6 billion tenge.	according to the governor 's office , the total cost of construction of the turbine no.2 is more than 6.6 billion tenge .	0,98
at the press conference qazaq air ";" gazaq air. "
the plan also reflects priority areas of interaction with international and foreign countries.
in the People's Republic of China there is a kalzhir river, much smaller than our markakol, but all the conditions for tourists are created there. neighboring china has the kalzhyr lake , which is much smaller than our markakol , but it created the conditions for tourism .
This year, the congress is fully devoted to mining and metallurgy. this year 's congress will be devoted to the mining and metallurgical complex within the new economic policy .
Members of French Governments and public authorities and representatives of leading training centres.
he produces competitive products on the basis of a correctional institution, opens new industries, receives rent for the provision of production space, the produced products receive a state order.
the rights of all Kazakhstanis in terms of ethnic, linguistic, religious and social needs are equal, enshrined not only legally, but practically. equality of all kazakhstan 's citizens regardless of their ethnic , linguistic , religious or social affiliation is provided in kazakhstan not only in law but also in practice .
missile structure of heptyl and amyl - harmful explosives of the first category. kazkosmos set the task - to abandon launches of missiles with toxic , harmful oxidation of the first class - heptyl and amyl .
A subsidiary of ktzexspress acquired 45-foot 200 pieces of Chinese-made containers with a carrying capacity of 27 tons.
Therefore, nұr Otan supports comprehensive support for domestic business, "he said.
Coverage for children aged 3 to 6 is 89.7 per cent and for children aged 1 to 6, 58.8 per cent.
Kazakhstan has an institutional framework for identifying and supporting gifted children, "he said.
This document is aimed at developing business relations between the EU, EU and the European Union in the field of the agro-industrial complex and improving their international cooperation.
The flag presentation ceremony was held with the participation of military personnel of the Almaty garrison, cadets of military educational institutions, veterans of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan and residents of the city.
this project can be implemented when considering the most optimal routes for the delivery of railways of the states of China, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, Caspian seaports, shipping space, terminal services, coordination of all multimedia solutions, implementation of a single tariff policy.
Also in the coming years, the share of technical specialists among staff will be increased.
Following the conference, it is expected to sign a state parliament on cooperation between the akimats of Buudb and Shymkent, Taraz, Temirtau and Lisakovsk.
Republican tournament "Kazakhstan move" of the prize of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayeva will be held July 4 in the capital on the Saryarka cycle track, where the winner and owner of the championship belt and the "tituyak" will be determined.
Recall that earlier the captain of the central sports club of the army for km, the athlete Olga Rypakova won a bronze medal in the second stage of the diamond leauge (brilliant league) competition in Shanghai.
Chairman of the Board of JSC Samruk-Energo will take part in the press conference.
they do a great job of strengthening military discipline and law and order, restoring moral and moral status, improving the prestige and image of military service, ensuring the protection of the honor and dignity of personnel.
Currently, the country is actively producing cars of a new type of railway transport with the participation of world-famous foreign companies general electric, alstom, knorr bremse, bombardier, fraushe.
however, despite this, we will not allow a sharp change in the exchange rate, "he explained.
Also during the visit, the Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom JSC met with the Chief Executive Officer of Areva.
unique works of the Japanese school - "dragon dance" koichi Jr. and the composition "kaze," designed for personal performance of the violin.
Today we discussed several important issues on the development of the naval forces of Kazakhstan, the training of cadets of South Korean military educational institutions, as well as the possibility of gaining practical experience on South Korean nuclear ships, "said Admiral John Szak, Commander-in-Chief of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Korea.
this has become a regional problem.
The winners of the competition drank residents and guests of the capital from the sweet pencils they prepared - capcakes depicting symbols and military attributes.
It is worth noting that in accordance with the memorandum concluded last year between the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region and Kaztransgaz, funds were allocated for gasification of Baikonur city and districts.
professional rescuers monitored the correct fulfillment and safety of all intended goals.
During the meeting, A. Sarinzhipov reported to the head of state on the development of the education system and preparatory work for the new academic year.
Due to all sources of financing, 9,812 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 1062570 square meters were commissioned, which is 185.5% higher than in January-July 2014.	due to all sources of funding the houses for 9812 apartments with a total area of housing 1,062,570 square meters have been commissioned , which is 185.5 % higher than in january - july 2014 .	0,98
today we can say that children do not leave our schools, "he said.
I think that today we will discuss and discuss all relevant issues in this field of education, "said the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan.
Until the end of the year, the department pays special attention to the implementation of the work plan "Capital - a clean city from false enterprises."
It will be attended by Vice Minister of Education and Science takyr balykbayev, authorized representative of the national scientific and technological holding "parasat" abilkayrov and Deputy General Director of Center for Technology Commercialization LLP Aizade nurlybayev.
In addition, the head of the region visited a number of social facilities in the region.
the train will pass through the Caspian Sea and go to Europe, "the director added.
At the same time, B. Baybek emphasized the simplification of permitting procedures on the principle of "one window," the provision of support to enterprises.
we must produce quality products in this area, ensure our domestic market and reach the level that will increase in foreign markets, "said A. Batalov.
A. Orsariev noted that for the training of 300 engineering personnel, the university specially trained teachers in Japan, Singapore, Kazakhstan and the UK.
2015. Natural growth of the population of the republic in January-August 2014. compared with January-August, 2.5 thousand people or 1.4% decreased and amounted to 174.9 (177.3) thousand people.
the quantitative composition of participants is important, but the issue of attracting countries that position themselves as leaders in the field of new developments is even more urgent. the number of participants is important , but issues of attracting countries , which are proven leaders in the latest developments , are even more relevant .
Therefore, we propose to provide roads for cyclists, expand the sports ground, "said marat Imanbaevich.
here we actively participate in the formation and creation of a social network.
The Music Academy is a unique project that laid the foundation for the idea of ​ ​ continuing professional education, uniting all generations of education - school, college, university.
The meeting is moderated by the Committee of Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the Kazakh Institute of Metrology.
Today, Kazakhstan is an authoritative member of the world community, an arrogant and powerful state, which is an example of unity and stability in society, lasting democratic successes and a dynamically developing economy, the telegram says.
This was announced at a meeting of the Chairman of the Board of the national company Astana Expo-2017 with business representatives of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Recall that at the initiative of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the batyrs contest was held among women servicemen.
We will send grain to our traditional main markets, "said Mamytbekov.
During the meeting, social and economic issues and issues of cultural cooperation were discussed.
all conditions for scientific research have been created for professional historians.
they all try to spend it together, visit a movie, park or theater, guests.
traditional regional competition among students of secondary schools 2015 "this year on the basis of the Zvezdny children's health center of the Borovsky district, in which 14 teams took part.
The goal of the Green Bridge Partnership programme is to effectively implement technology transfers and support financial institutions between Central Asia and the International Association for Green Economic Growth in the region.
During the work, issues of protection of national interests in the context of the situation in the world economy and integration processes were considered.
a fire of this "conditional" type occurred on the Irtysh River.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of issues of Kazakh-German cooperation in the raw materials, industrial and technological spheres, including leading bilateral projects included in the list of priorities of the Kazakh-German business council and the participation of the German side in the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital.
a significant share of the total area of ​ ​ residential buildings commissioned is in the Kyzylorda city (64.5%).
elections, change of akims, etc. The change of officials should have a positive impact on the work of the administrative public service. " assistant.
this is not only the duty of state bodies, this is primarily the task of civil society, "explained E. Abdrasulov.
Last year, knauf was one of the first of eight companies to receive an award for active investment.
According to the Deputy Director for Scientific Work of the National Museum of Kazakhstan, two main laws have entered into history of sovereign Kazakhstan.
I decide:
The head of state noted that specific steps are provided for each part of the modernization.
friendship and brotherhood are the key to our successful interaction, "the telegram says.
Kazakhstan is actively developing the space industry and implementing the space program.
All directions cover 5 areas, since in all reforms there are measures to preserve stability and harmony, "said E. Tuzhanov.
At the beginning of the speech, the Chairman of the Board recalled two main reasons for Kazakhstan's adoption of a new economic policy.
According to the law of January 14, 2014, it will be possible to preliminary consider applications, which will allow suppliers to familiarize themselves with the document within three days and make the necessary adjustments, prepare a tender document in accordance with the technical specification, "he said.
as a neighboring and fraternal country for you, we sincerely experience. we are sincerely worried about you .
According to him, the proposed document provides for issues not only economic, but also training of personnel, new specialists and defense, and the environment.
85.5% of maize, 92.5% of rice, 70% of oilseeds, 37.5% of sugar beets were harvested.
along Ismailova Street "samigullin z.a. "the construction of a preschool institution with 42 places is being completed.
Eurasian forum Kazenergy is the largest international industry event in Kazakhstan.
we are no longer at the planning stage, we are now in the implementation stage, we are trying to implement what we are still discussing, "said Vicente Lossertales at a meeting with Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The purpose of the project is to mobilize the efforts of the child of mankind and to free the world from nuclear weapons through concrete and regular activities to finally stop nuclear tests.
Austrian companies talked about the directions and answered questions of interest.
the personnel of the units checked combat and professional training in all disciplines.
Recall that bilateral cooperation in the field of health is carried out on the basis of the agreement on strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Italy, signed in Rome on November 5, 2009.
Recall that the European Union Horizon 2020 program is a program that finances the EU research program for 2014-2020.
Currently, the Kazakhstan Center for Public-Private Partnership is conducting expert work on a white project.
began its activities in Astana in 2000, and in temirtau continued its activities "Children's sauce village" in 2004.
the presidents of Kazakhstan and Ukraine also discussed the upcoming visit of Poroshenko to the capital.
Recall, on September 11, a solemn event dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will be held in the capital.
in addition, foreign media will publish materials on business opportunities and the investment climate of Almaty.
According to the speaker, the government needs to carefully study the issue of marginal prices for retail and wholesale trade for some types of fuel and lubricants.
in conclusion, the head of state emphasized that the state will create all the necessary conditions for the professional development of a person of work and further increase the scale and quality of production of domestic goods.
stadium and ice rink for 12 thousand spectators of Olympic scale, as well as a hockey academy, a 50-meter pool, that is, the entire complex.
In addition, representatives of the competent department note the existence of a number of legislative acts defining persons related to law enforcement agencies, such as law enforcement agencies, the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the foreign intelligence service, state security and the prosecutor general's office.
It is necessary to maintain that today it cannot go far with its talent. " divine.
During two days in the capital of Kazakhstan, the wishes of peace, harmony, justice, forgiveness and love for loved ones were fulfilled in different languages, in different traditions, "the head of state said.
The Serbian economy in the agro-industrial complex can gain experience in the field of scientific research, "said an adviser to the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at all.
The question of creating the forum "Islam against terrorism" was also raised.
we have passed the period of Kazakhstan becoming an independent country, which was associated with the formation and risks against the state, which took place on the internal and external side of the country. we went through a period of formation of independent kazakhstan , which was associated with the solvency of the state , with questions and risks that have been at home and abroad .
In accordance with the resolution adopted by the President of the Senate of Parliament by the Cass-generous Tokai and members of the Bureau of the Chamber, the draft constitutional law "On the International Financial Center Capital," amendments to the legislation on non-performing loans and assets of second-tier banks, financial services and the activities of financial organizations and the national bank are submitted for consideration by the deputies in the first reading.
special attention should be paid to the issues of employment of the population, which is under pressure in the current economic conditions, therefore, organized specific activities of state bodies and local executive bodies are necessary together, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
the parties discussed the current conditions for the transport of goods on international routes.
we are taking early measures to develop tourism.
this is where the future begins today.
the heads of authorized state bodies are instructed to carry out modernization measures and pay attention to the issues of improving the regulatory framework in the field of state symbols, as well as information propaganda.
Kazakhstan is implementing a comprehensive plan to combat tuberculosis for 2014-2020.
as part of the rotation of the national commission, the regions are given the opportunity to attract Bolashakovites. the national commission motivates bolashakers to move to the regions , in order to work out 3 years instead of 5 .
In turn, the chairman of the Eurasian Writers Union y.meroglu. noted that in the difficult years of the millennium under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan made decisive steps towards the future, achieved high economic and political status, and also took a worthy place among the countries of the world.
I hope that the visual changes of Sochi after the Olympics will be interesting to many of our Kazakh partners, "said the President of Russia.
today he holds a number of public positions in the social and financial system of the republic.
An important event in the field of culture was the x anniversary forum of the scientific and creative intelligentsia in the capital.
a. musins on Kazakhstan's contribution to the strengthening of peace and stability at the global level, on the experience gained under the chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, as well as on the leadership policy that Kazakhstan has demonstrated in the process of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
he encouraged French companies to establish contacts with Mangistau entrepreneurs and consider their opportunities.
in the district center A.Rakimzhanov visited the kindergarten "Nұrly bolashak."
including lighting operations, injuries, lung inflammation operations, complex reconstructive-plastic and plastic operations.
22 km of rail-sleeper grids were laid, of which 16.6 km of the main roads were ballasted, "said the general manager of the ak ktj branch of the ak ashubay barbosynov Railway Construction Directorate.
Deputy Director for Economic Affairs of Manov Acetas spoke about the activities of Atameken, including the goals and tasks of the organization, the business climate of the region, and the potential for the implementation of joint projects.
the concert program began with creative statement "The m g_l_k ate", the Constitution of RK devoted to the 20 anniversary which was executed by collective of the opera and ballet of Astana Opera theater and the State academic orchestra to them.
Recall that during the certification, the level of physical, fire, professional, combat and tactical training of military personnel, knowledge of the law, basic guidance documents and subjects of compulsory military discipline, as well as psychological readiness will be checked.
On the internal portal of the Supreme Court, a new service "Synthesis Forum" has been introduced, aimed at publishing, discussing and explaining generalizations conducted in relation to judicial practice.
for construction and installation work, the growth was 0.6%, "he explained.
his solemn presentation ceremony will be held in the Moscow sports complex "Olympic."
By the end of the year, 4 more projects worth 2.7 billion tenge will be implemented.
today this area is interested in accelerating the development of its infrastructure. today , it is an attractive area with a rapidly developing infrastructure .
the project also plans to introduce a single standard for the quality of public services, increase transparency and accessibility.
If not one, but several types of meat products are created at the plant, Chinese and Russian countries express their readiness to purchase products, "said D. Selikhanov.
the Golden Cradle kindergarten, which won a state order, has the opportunity to educate and teach children from 1.5 to 6 years old.
It is worth noting that the exhibition participants presented new and best projects in the media and promotion market.
a delegation led by the Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan Vladimir Shkolnik takes part in the general conference.
During the competition, the jury got acquainted with the poems of the participants and determined the winners.
for producers focused on the domestic market, this is a new test.
Kazakhstan is a member of the EAEU today.
in my opinion, this is not an accident.
According to the coordinator, the project implemented three main structures.
With the funds raised this year, it is planned to repair two more residential buildings.
100 steps "- an important contribution to the long-term, sustainable and sustainable development of the republic.
After that, the audience saw Sataev's film "A Disgusting Thousand Children."
our country needs a prosperous Afghanistan, we want to establish close relations with such a country, "the head of state said.
on the basis of its norms, various laws are issued with which the work of the executive bodies, the prosecutor's office and the courts is regulated. " maxute.
Following the meeting, the Ministry of National Economy, together with the Ministry of Investment and Development, was instructed to conduct inspections against entities involved in the import and sale of cement from Iranian production, the availability of their certificates, and compliance with national legislation on labeling.
I. According to Rogov, the conference will discuss very interesting issues.
The agreement between Kazakhstan and Iran was concluded in 2014 in the capital.
In addition, innovative products in the field of events are aimed at creating conditions for scientific and technical cooperation and production development - the report said.
now we are interacting with Belarusian partners. we are now integrating with our partners from the republic of belarus .
According to him, 6 dairy farms for 13 thousand heads of dairy cows, 27 feeding grounds, 14 thousand heads of dairy caviar of 15 breeding reproductive farms, 6 poultry farms of meat and egg direction were commissioned.
At the end of September, it is planned to switch to large-scale construction and build additional lines. in late september , it is necessary to lay parallel network .
expansion of the eeo borders at the expense of Kyrgyzstan gives additional opportunities and creates conditions for increasing the activity of trade turnover, "said E. Khon.
The program includes topics in the field of legislation, marketing, financial and other entrepreneurship.
President A.D. the model of interethnic harmony of Kazakhstan, founded by Nazarbayev, is recognized throughout the world.	noting the important role of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev in the formation of independent kazakhstan , he said that kazakhstan has entered a number of leading countries of the world in a short period .	0,98
only Kazakhstan received more than 270 complaints from young people aged 19 to 29 years.	only kazakhstan filed more than 270 applications for participation in the contest of young people aged 19 to 29 years .	0,98
among them is a project to produce Asian auto insurers.
I am sure that your visit will also contribute to strengthening and expanding our cooperation during this difficult period, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the rally will be rehabilitated in the central park, where a youth flag will be installed.
Universiade is a vivid example of the development of promising niches. universiade - a vivid example of the development of our promising goods and services markets .
During the meeting, issues of interaction in the field of hydrocarbon production were discussed, the press service of the acorda reports.
techconnect astana forum will be a decisive stage of the innovation week, which started a week ago in Almaty. techconnect astana forum is the highlight of innovation week started in almaty .
Opening the meeting, Governor of Belarus Yerik Sultanov told the delegation about the economic development of the region and mutual cooperation with Belarusian companies.
for this, the city needs 3.2 billion tenge with growth, and the city of Semipalatinsk - 2.4 billion tenge.
this is a historical and biographical book, because it begins with the life of the president in childhood.
all these events are very useful, because they allow us to maintain good relations between our countries, "K.Masimov.
this is a direction in the economy that meets innovations, competition, Kazakh products, quality of goods, international standards.
In general, the Government of Kazakhstan in the near future will rule out unreasonable rise in price of socially significant goods, "the head of government said.
In addition, the foreign ministers intend to discuss the agenda of the meeting of the Council of Heads of State, which will be held in July in Ufa (Bashkortostan).
Kazmunaigaz and Ak came to appropriate agreements with a group of local Vitol companies to study the geological potential of sites in Kazakhstan.
separate discussions are planned on the role of integration processes, the formation of a long-term trade, economic and energy partnership, ensuring global energy stability, "said A. Magauov.
now we want to introduce a culture of working with foreign investors into our state institutions, "he added.
pure meat products about 2.5 kg. rabbit meat is a dietary .
It is noted that the industrial zone will be opened in the Semikarinsky district, where eight entrepreneurs have already submitted applications to accommodate new projects.
After the adoption of the Constitution of Kazakhstan, a phase of new development appeared, on the shoulders of our and foreign partners lies the market foundation laid by the constitution. after the adoption of the constitution kazakhstan came into a fundamentally new phase in its development , since the basis of the successes is obvious to all of us and for our foreign partners is , it applies to all issues .
another "bronze" medal was won by command of his companion Junior Sergeant of Justice Daulumbayev.
The conference was attended by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Mongolia.
Chairman of AKP "Uk" reported on the work of the socio-entrepreneurial corporation Alimzhan Usengaliyev.
The President of Kazakhstan also thanked all partners for understanding and supporting the chairmanship of Kazakhstan in the CIS.
domestic clothing companies are ready to support consumers and provide quality uniforms.
After that, representatives of Kazavtodor conducted explanatory work on the inadmissibility of violations of traffic rules.
According to the Executive Director, Kazakhstan entered the top 50 exporting countries in 2014.
the combat step of the soldier should be bold and dynamic, indicating that he is not collapsing. the phalanx step of serviceman must be powerful and dynamic , show his invincibility .
Improving the institutional environment as a whole will positively affect the economic development and reputation of our state, "the expert concluded.
Senator George attended the meeting.
According to him, the judge with his advice cannot help in the trial.
If we talk about the bill, then in general the idea is good.
most of the business ideas were related to processing production - 647 applications, information technology - 263, education - 171 and others.
- contract for the purchase and sale of natural uranium concentrates between the Department of Atomic Energy of India and the national nuclear company Kazatomprom;
At the end of the speech abdykalikova voiced a number of specific proposals and urged the guests of the forum to come to Astana to participate in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 "Energy of the Future."
The training is attended by employees of the central office, branches and subsidiaries engaged in transport logistics of KTz JSC.
we expect that it will become the basis of the financial infrastructure of Kazakhstan, and subsequently the financial hub of the entire region.
then, six months ago, many of us were really homeless. everything that we had been building for many years , bit by bit , turned into a terrible mess .
Recall that in Kazakhstan, from April 24, 2015, the order of the Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 481 "On approving the list of certain types of goods for which a special right to import from the territory of the Eurasian Economic Union countries, with the exception of vehicles imported by individuals without the purpose of entrepreneurial activity," entered into force.
As the head of state noted, "the Abai heritage is a noble heritage of Kazakhstanis."
Kazakhstan was the first to implement this project in the CIS countries.
Based on the fundamental achievements of today's strategy, the new strategy will strengthen and expand bilateral partnerships in specific areas based on the geopolitical and economic situation.
Investments in the fixed capital of the agro-industrial complex amounted to 9.5 billion tenge, which is 1.8 times more than in the same period last year.
Doctor of Historical Sciences, historian, scientist Vidadi Salah believes that this is not a house.
almost all this was not limited - Kazakhstan, making tough and decisive decisions, emerged from the crisis with less losses than most world economies, "the Kazakh diplomat drew special attention.
Joining the WTO is a good achievement, but you still need to look and move in this direction, "the deputy said.
To attract transnational companies, it is important to create a global chain of access providers and unique technologies, "said A. Issekeshev.
The purpose of the visit was to hold the 12th meeting of the Kazakh-Indian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical, industrial and cultural cooperation.
According to the press service, in his welcoming speech, Askar Mamin thanked the company's employees for the work done, the profession provided to them and wished them success in their work.
The purpose of the project is to increase the potential of Kazakhstani entrepreneurs, promote the development of cooperation with foreign companies.
On behalf of the akim of the region, irrigated land is returned and developed. in general , for 7 months this year , industrial production and industrial services have amounted to 6 144.4 million tenge , or 31.4 % .
The level of customs investments is agreed in accordance with Kazakhstan's obligations in the field of water.
now data are available only for the capital and Almaty cities.
under the signed memorandum, the partnership between the two companies will create a new horizon for joint work.
During the meeting, the ambassador announced the readiness of large French companies to cooperate.
work has begun to increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstan, and if our country stably and purposefully moves forward, then it will reach high heights, "said the head of state.
partners and organizers of the competition: association "future," holding "Baiterek," fund "development," "tjua" ak, "sberbank" ak eb, holding "bi groups," companies "atasu group of companies" and "masterbuild" and Mayor's Office of Astana.
this does not mean that paying taxes is a punishment, "said Dr.
In our opinion, one of the priority areas of Kazakhstan's entry into the list of fifty competitive countries of the world will be the social sphere.
I wish all Kazakhstanis good health, well-being, happiness and great success!
this is a very difficult question, because it concerns the interests of every citizen. this is a difficult question because it affects the interests of every citizen .
.Dirisov noted that the government of Kazakhstan, law enforcement agencies, special services are working on security in the country.
nevertheless, they began to plant trees.
if we do not increase the age, then there will be no money for retirement.	if we do not increase the age , there will be no money for pensions .	0,99
focusing on the strategic importance of cooperation between the two countries, Kabibullah Jakupov spoke about five institutional reforms initiated by the head of state and 100 concrete steps - a national plan. "
I know that you always make great efforts to strengthen the friendship between Kazakhstan and the Chinese people. i know that you always make great efforts to strengthen the friendship between the kazakh and chinese peoples .
forum participants discussed the prospects of cooperation and new directions of joint research projects.
Mr. Abdykalikova noted that the presidential program "future" is developing within the framework of five institutional reforms, the national plan, the state program "Nұrly zhol."
at the same time, the report may affect the elections, "said A. Azantsev.
financing entrepreneurs in a simplified system and the implementation of credit networks of microfinance organizations (MFIs) will create about 8 thousand jobs in 2015 and increase production to 220 billion tenge, the minister said.
The President also noted the technological development of the world economy.
"Kazakh khans" is a Kazakh state, 17 khans under the rule of the Kazakh khanate, "the author noted.
The head of state noted that taking into account the new economic situation, it is necessary to adapt to the price of a barrel of oil at the level of 30-40 dollars.
after entering the information system, they can be revealed by hackers. more the company uses information systems , more chance to be hacked .
At the same time, the agricultural sector has been one of the priority sectors of our economy since the first days of our independence, "the minister said.
warm, rainfall is expected to be normal in October.	as the head of the ministry of agriculture said , the work is on schedule .	0,99
partners of the festival - the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with. Nurmagambetov International Charitable Foundation, National Delphic Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the partners of the festival are the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , the ministry of culture and sports of the republic of kazakhstan , the international charitable foundation named after s.nurmagambetov and the national delphic committee of kazakhstan .	0,99
project capacity is aimed at increasing the shipment of dry cargo, sending 2.5 million tons of dry cargo per year.	power of the project is aimed at increasing of the capacity of the port on handling of dry cargo by 2.5 million tons per year .	0,99
strengthening the rule of law in police activities, strengthening educational work among personnel.	the sides spoke about the need to strengthen the rule of law among the policemen , the educational work among staff .	0,99
if we have a "future" program, they will be able to improve their knowledge and receive education abroad, and the common population did not have a lift that was created for strong people.
The event was attended by the Secretary General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Dmitry Mesentsev, ambassadors and diplomats of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan.
the capital is a city created by the head of state.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, this program is currently being successfully implemented.
He noted that the number of specialized centers is enough.
employees of the National Museum reached an agreement with the Smithsonian Institute and the Metro Museum of Art on cooperation in the field of ethnography, archeology, exhibition activities and the implementation of modern scientific projects.
Therefore, we should be ready to make some amendments in the second half of the year, given the great uncertainty, "the Prime Minister said.
During the working meeting, the Program for the development of integration of the Eurasian Economic Union in the field of statistics for 2016-2020, modern standards in the field of statistical database, prospects for cooperation with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development were discussed.
As the deputy noted, a bill on law enforcement agencies was received.
Over the month, well-known athletes underwent initial military training in military units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Despite the fact that Kazakhstan is rich in natural resources, taking into account the past of this country, there are many environmental risks.
in addition, the Secretary of State noted that the State begins with the family.
When we started our journey, we fought for life, because the forecasts regarding the future and opportunities of Kazakhstan were negative. at the beginning of our way we fought for survival as predictions about the future of kazakhstan and its opportunities were negative .
During the negotiations, it is planned to consider priority areas of cooperation in the coal industry, transport and logistics, agro-industrial complex and other areas.
Thanks to the technology program, the group of winners has a huge opportunity to prove themselves around the world.
the bank will be located on the territory of the not growing Ulba metallurgical plant (umz).
kudu industries Kazakhstan and the plant of Karakudykmunaigaz LLP, "akim of the region alik aidarbayev said.
The event was attended by guests of honor: Deputy Minister of International Trade and Industry of Malaysia Dato lee leong, Secretary General of the World Islamic Forum Sri Ahmad Fuzi Haji abdul-razak, Chief Executive Officer matrade dato zulkifli mahmud.
this is an interview book, a book of worship.
In addition, according to the draft document, the development of a culture of charity and social responsibility is planned.
This year, courses at the Center for Neurosurgery were devoted to vascular neurosurgery, "the report said.
public online services can be obtained through special terminals - public access points located on the e-government portal, in the mobile application to the egov.kz, at the corners of the e-government (connection point) and in the CES.
we have been attending this event for the third year in a row.
During the visit, delegates got acquainted with the work of the industrial zone "South."
the competition for the best in its profession is aimed at increasing the prestige of working professions.
The programme concept builds on the experience of existing support programmes in countries such as France, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, New Zealand.
According to him, this year Kazakhstani construction specialists took part in the international competition.
our young people must improve their health by trying to lead a healthy lifestyle.
According to the deputy, according to the regulations, the initiated laws are the highest indicator for deputies.
according to him, "Kazakhstan, together with our partners, investors and world engineering communities, plans to introduce and develop modern engineering technologies in the production of machine-building products for such sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan as aerospace, automobile, ticket-building industry, oil and gas, electrical, railway, etc."
During the conversation, topical issues of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic and humanitarian spheres were discussed in detail.
in addition, the agreement provides for the creation of favorable conditions for obtaining visas and work permits.
Akim of Akmola region Sergey Kulagin, founder of Aytas group of companies Serik Tolukpayev, representatives of local executive bodies, agricultural producers of the region, as well as members of the project group engaged in the construction of a poultry farm took part in the event.
The event was attended by foreign ambassadors, Finnish business community, journalists and representatives of academic society.
To this end, the head of state announced 5 reforms that will improve the quality of the public service and the judicial system, turn Kazakhstan into a country working on the basis of the best international standards.
I. As Rogov emphasized, the norms of the Constitution of Kazakhstan meet national traditions and meet international requirements, as well as are highly legitimate.
I am sure that the meeting will provide a new impetus for cooperation between the countries, "the head of state said.
Tsacheva noted Bulgaria's readiness to actively develop comprehensive cooperation with Kazakhstan.
5 institutional reforms are a nation's plan of 100 well-structured concrete steps, "whose priorities are improving the public service and creating an accountable government.
In his speech, the head of the Kazakh delegation noted the importance of strengthening general security in accordance with the Astana declaration and not bringing it to the line of division into ecu.
Kazakhstan, as a full participant in international trends, contributes to global weather problems. kazakhstan as a full participant in the international processes contributes to the solution of global goals and sustainable solutions , including climate issues .
we conducted a survey among tourist operators as part of the kitf-2015 exhibition in Almaty, all respondents showed interest by 100%, "he said.
During these events, the chairman of the board of Baiterek holding Kuandyk Bishimbayev told the head of state about a number of projects launched with the support of this holding.
The President of Kazakhstan gave an interview to a correspondent of one of the largest French newspapers - "le figaro."
In addition, 1000 workers, most of whom are Kazakhstanis, work on the site of the central EXPO-2017 Pavilion of Kazakhstan facility.
Special attention was paid to the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition and the creation of an international financial center in the capital within its framework.
on this portal you can see 3D versions of trips, that is, these are virtual tours in Kazakhstan.	for example , the portal  encyclopedia of kazakhstan " will introduce 3d-tour .
He noted that in the second half of 2015 it is planned to launch 4 projects that will create 237 jobs 6 for 4bn tenge.
at the same time, a lot of attention is paid to highly qualified technical personnel, and the ambassador called on young people to effectively use their opportunities and contribute to the implementation of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" within the framework of the development of the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
we want young people to pay attention to us.
In addition, the Day of Culture of Kazakhstan took place.
In general, the monetary policy of the National Bank and the Government of Kazakhstan will positively affect the increase in the level of tenge in the economy and de-dollarization, "he said.
Petro Poroshenko also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the accession of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the World Trade Organization.
thanks for the interview.
N.A. Nazarbayev is one of the few politicians of the modern world who gave a deep theoretical explanation of the foundations of this crisis. nazarbayev - one of the few politicians of the modern world , who has offered a deep theoretical interpretation of the origins of this crisis .
After getting acquainted with the projects, Chairman of the Board of Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC B. Zhamishev noted that each of these projects meets the goals and interests of the organization and noted that financial support can be provided.
nurymbet exchange noted that Kazakhstan is implementing a number of programs aimed at industrialization, ensuring economic growth and ensuring employment of the population.
In this regard, representatives of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs conduct a survey of representatives of entrepreneurship facilities, citizens engaged in entrepreneurship, state bodies, financial organizations, development institutions, to study the situation as a whole on the development of entrepreneurship, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of North Kazakhstan region.
Akmola introduced her field "a team of young technicians with algae."
members of the committee also discussed the draft law "On the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Principality of Monaco on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters."
in connection with the expiration of the deadline by a decision of the board of the Samruk-kazyna welfare fund, the board of directors of Ktzh joint-stock company was re-elected for a whole year.
To this end, the "locomotive building plant" supplied from the capital will receive leasing funds provided by Azerbaijan Railway JSC and the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The goal of the program is to ensure the sustainable and effective development of human health protection, the document says.
among them are large Russian companies and firms, research and design institutes working in the field of road construction and operation, the creation of road transport and equipment and road safety.
it would be very difficult, "said the leader of the nation.
during the meeting, our blind, but very talented children sang.
our nature becomes more elegant and rich than it is visible, only it needs to be developed.
Kazakh delegation was headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs - Special Ambassador of the President of Kazakhstan Alexei Volkov, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
According to him, the association in the course of its work is based on the strategies voiced by the head of state, namely, the formation of peace and social harmony, as well as the strengthening of Kazakhstan's unity.
Over the course of three days, more than 300 parliamentarians - delegates and observers from 28 NTO member countries discussed international security issues, drawing attention to the situation in Ukraine, relations with Russia, the crisis in the Middle East and northern Africa and the increase in the threat of terrorism.
this congress is very useful for all states, as it makes it possible for everyone to come together in the framework of a dilogy. this congress is very useful for all countries , as it allows all of us to gather under the dialogue , it does not mean that our faith has become weaker , we are trying to get richer at the expense of the exchange of views .
the independence of our state in foreign policy was discussed at the next meeting of the academic diplomatic club, "the Prime Minister explained.
these are small developers who cannot cope with the situation in tenge, "said A. Kuandykov.
military units are manned in accordance with economic and territorial principles.
the situation in the foreign exchange market has stabilized, "he said.
a project on exploration of rare earth metals has been launched in Karaganda and Kostanay regions.
these are interesting, promising, commercially oriented scientific projects.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan highly appreciated the activities of cnpc in the development of advanced technologies and expressed interest in working together in this direction.
construction is now allowed, but not primarily about energy efficiency.
As for the gold mark, 48% of applicants confirmed their knowledge - 108 graduates.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat thanked the President and Pavlopoulos for the invitation.
At the end of the meeting, he invited Nursultan Nazarbayev to visit the South African Republic.
this holiday is a conscious holiday, "said the chairman of the constitutional council of the Republic of Kazakhstan Igor Horns.
The seminar addresses various aspects of economic governance in the region, including the assessment of the role of the IMF and WTO in the region, the discussion of the most relevant economic issues and the development and implementation of policy priorities for reform.
It is noted that delegates will discuss migration problems in Kyrgyzstan and neighboring countries of Central Asia and consider ways to solve them.
The metallurgical plant of Amir a LLP intends to produce products of double and large channel size.
We also believe that next year our indicator will be positive.
work on the restoration of power lines continues.
medical assistance to older people is provided free of charge at both the republican and regional levels within the framework of guaranteed free state medical care, "the Vice Minister emphasized.
the bank was given respect to become a partner of a project of national scale and great importance. bank is honored to be a partner for the national important project .
According to him, the German energy agency is involved in providing methodological assistance in the work of the institute.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of France Francis noted the potential of Kazakh-French business cooperation.
For example, he pays for 90,120,360 days and does not stop at barriers, as the system receives data when determining his number, "he said.
we invited them on purpose, they will create new tools for us to develop domestic mediation, "he said.
badge "For outstanding work introduced into the prosperity of society."
Dear President, I want to thank you on my own for hosting a congress of representatives of world and traditional religions in your country. mr. president , let me personally thank you for all of the congresses of leaders of world and traditional religions .
partnership within the framework of the memorandum provides for joint training, conferences and seminars, research projects, etc.
at plenary meetings and sections of figures of science and education, art, "dialogue of cultures will be discussed as a factor in the development of humanitarian cooperation of the CIS," the Eurasian code of humanitarian cooperation, "" the role of museums in dialogue of cultures. "
Bulgaria considers Kazakhstan as a long-term partner and is interested in effective partnership in the trade and production sphere. bulgaria considers kazakhstan as a long-term partner and effective partner in trade and industry .
in particular, he noted that the formation of the state apparatus provides for its professionalization and tightening of requirements for civil servants.
A. Ayymbetov spoke about how the experience of "dastarkhan-6" will be realized at the international space station on behalf of the Kazakh Academy of Nutrition.
The entire Akmola industry is open to our partners, and I think that this meeting will give a new impetus to the further intensification of bilateral cooperation, the akim said.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 44, paragraph 2 of article 55 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev approved the proposal to give consent to the appointment of Daniyar Akyshev to the post of chairman of the national bank. senate , guided by subparagraph 4 , article 44 , sub-paragraph 2 , article 55 of the constitution of the republic of kazakhstan , gives consent to appointment of daniyar akishev head of the national bank .
in the oil and gas industry, it is planned to avoid a decrease in oil production, "he said. sagintayev.
We believe that the capital will lead the development of Islamic financing in our region.
this will be a joint struggle, the main winner of which will be the consumer. it will be a joint struggle , where the main income will be a consumer .
As the head of state noted, one of the most important funds is a public-private partner. as the president stated , one of the main reserves is the public-private partnerships .
the meeting was attended by permanent members of the security council and heads of a number of state bodies.
according to him, a large competition was held in the specialty "mechatronics."
The sides also discussed investment projects implemented jointly in South Kazakhstan region.
at the third stage, the state body will determine the professional knowledge and qualifications of the candidate.
amendments are being made to legislative acts, a new law on public service is being introduced. "
In particular, the Governor of the region got acquainted with the work of Uranenergo LLP, a subsidiary of the holding company in the village of Sherbayev.
In turn, according to the data of Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC at the end of 2014, 23 projects in the amount of 22 billion 657 million tenge or 45% of the total allocated funds were actually financed to finance large entrepreneurial projects in the manufacturing industry.
let me win!	the main motto of the movement is  give me a chance to win !
As the Director of the RM of Public Consent noted, today the event "big country - big family" has begun.
the second case involves small and medium-sized businesses.
- because they affect greenhouse gas emissions in cities.
According to him, the suffering characteristic of the generation of nomads is felt in Kazakhstan - this is a desire for better and vitality.
at the first stage, the contestants perform works of Kazakh/Kazakh compatriots or Kazakh folk songs, at the second stage they perform songs of the state in which they came, "he said.
On the same day, the founding meeting of the Club of Friends of Kazakhstan in China, consisting of representatives of the business and scientific circles of China and cultural and art figures, as well as the presentation of the book "We and You: Legends of China and Kazakhstan," was held in Beijing.
Kazakhstan has been visited repeatedly by the UN Secretary General and representatives of world organizations.
During the event, the ambassador made a presentation on the development of the transit and transport potential of Kazakhstan, and also called on Chinese entrepreneurs and participants to use the transit capabilities of the state in the transport and logistics sphere.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of cooperation in the field of mutual investments, the creation of cross-border joint ventures, the creation of production chains, and the provision of high-quality transport and logistics infrastructure.
it should be clarified that the toughest sanctions will be applied to those who support them, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the same time, 40% of the information is open, 20% is confidential.
since this is centralized management, we can solve the problem by connecting with each other, "said T. cousin.
In turn, Michihiko spoke about the activities of the corporation over the past year in Kazakhstan and expressed interest in expanding cooperation.
The family contest of the jubilee family is a wonderful competition that brings together high and high-level families.
The launch of the plant is scheduled for the third decade of July, the first products will be produced in August.
According to museum employees, the period of the Huns-Sarmatians is special, "the report said.
the capital is a business campus and Almaty is a technical park, "added A. Issekeshev.
Today, the civil sector plays a major role in state policy in social protection, education and health care, protection of children's rights. non-governmental organizations play a special role in the implementation of state policy , in the field of social protection , education , health , the protection of children 's rights .
now the words of representatives of traditional religions are important to everyone.
According to the Vice Minister, the action plan provides for the provision of one-time material assistance, the organization of a charity event, a solemn reception of veterans, and the organization of sporting events.
I want to say that our institute today is agreed with the Chinese standardization body. our institute has signed an agreement with the chinese sac standards body .
the state creates all conditions for improving the well-being of the population, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the German company energy mit system proposed to build a solar power plant in the city.
As part of the visit, a bilateral meeting will be held with the President of China Xi Jinping.
next year, friendship will celebrate half a century of its life. next year , the commonwealth will celebrate a quarter-century of its existence .
The event was attended by deputies of the maslikhat of Astana, deputy chairman of the Astana city branch.
The agreement on a new stage of comprehensive strategic partnership, signed by you and the President of China Xi Jinping, will take our bilateral relations to a new level, "said the chairman of the standing committee of the National People's Congress.
depositors of the joint-stock company Stroysberbank of Kazakhstan received apartments in a five-story building of the 2nd building, including teachers, doctors, specialists of industrial enterprises, the East Kazakhstan region reported.
The press conference will be attended by the President of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan, a member of the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family Defographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan, the rose of Sarsembayev.
the knowledge of our graduates corresponds to the world level.
We're trying to squeeze out the university's pioneers.
According to the results of the work, out of 6,890 citizens who applied, 4,164 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 1,549 people received applications for changing their details, 1,177 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
in particular, the universities of Wales expressed interest in the implementation of joint research programs and the admission of Kazakhstani students to study under the future program.
The event was attended by Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbayev, Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council of Kazakhstan Nurlan Ermekbayev, Secretary General of Shu Dmitry Mezentsev.
450-500 thousand square meters of housing are put into operation annually, not to mention the construction of cement production and other facilities, "B. Saparbayev noted.
Governor of the capital wished all residents good health, goodwill, family happiness!
the authors wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, long life, success in all plans aimed at prosperity and prosperity of Kazakhstan.
housing will be built in the cities of aktobe and khromtau.
Thus, according to the expert, the implementation of 59 steps by 2020 will reduce energy efficiency to 25%.
According to R.Sultanbekov, this center provides highly qualified cardiac and cardiac surgery and is equipped with special medical devices worth 602.3 million tenge.
K.Tokayev called on Bulgarian parliamentarians to participate in an international conference on the topic "religion against terrorism."
Within the framework of rental housing, work is underway in two areas. we operate in two directions within the rental housing .
Currently, an international master plan has been prepared aimed at the development of automotive production by the international consulting company pricewaterhousecoopers.
From June 1 to September 30, a large-scale operation called cocnar began in the country.
In accordance with the draft law on public service, starting next year, the head will be able to independently appoint an assistant, adviser or secretary out of competition, "he said, answering questions from journalists.
we have the best conditions for agricultural development around the world.
The level of the world economy over the past six months shows that we have low prices for raw materials and a high level of integration. over the past six months , the level of the world economy shows that we have started a long-term period by low commodity prices and high levels of integration .
feed the world. The Kazakhstan pavilion has a special interest at the exhibition "expo milano 2015," which is called "energy of life."
in cooperation with the best international partners, we intend to create a world-class financial center in the Eurasian center. we intend to create a world-class financial center in the heart of eurasia in collaboration with the best international partners .
In the second half of the day, the working trip continued in a cozy area, where B. Saparbayev got acquainted with the work of the solar station "Burnoesovtsy," visited social, educational and sports facilities.
The First Deputy Prime Minister stressed that these reforms will give an additional impetus to the Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan partnerships.
Thanks to the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, a visit was organized to Armenia, where it became possible to familiarize ourselves with the Armenian font and manuscripts in Kypchak, after which we went to Italy, where the monument "codex cumanicus" for Kypchak records was preserved, "said the screenwriter and director at a press conference in Aktobe.
secondly, the access of developing countries to investment and capital was severely limited.
I am glad that our country has achieved such success, "said A. Ayymbetov.
Due to the fact that this annual project is a charity event, all tickets are distributed for free.
Kazakhstan is becoming even more attractive for foreign investors and partners.
the meeting was held on the site of the American Chamber of Commerce.
construction volume increased by 36.2%, investments in fixed assets - by 33.7%, agricultural products - by 6.5%.
this means the state of the national economy as a whole.
President of Kazakhstan N. a. Thanks to Nazarbayev, the third Kazakh cosmonaut made a third flight into space.
At the same time, the food and agricultural industries will become irreparable mining. food and agriculture industry are the fields to improve .
Recall that in the capital there is a republican forum of patriots on the topic "Eternal country - a single country of the future," which gathered more than 2,000 delegates from all regions of the republic.
15 men's and 5 women's teams, more than 60 army athletes of search and rescue and parachute landing services 53975 a/b, military personnel of airmobile troops, representatives of parachute sports clubs and federations became champions of parachute sports.
The head of state stressed that Kazakhstan needs to build and repair 7 thousand km of roads inside the country.
and in Russia there are our traders who bring, sell to Kazakhstan.
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is a significant and historical date for us. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is a remarkable and interesting historical date for us .
these are helicopters, a separate fire extinguishing system, an alert system.
also intend to develop domestic and external tourism.
The Ambassador shared the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, and also spoke about the investment and business climate of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of idmb, Kazakhstan provides for the formation of a national cluster of the oil and gas industry. spiid of kazakhstan provides the establishment of the national cluster in the oil and gas industry .
Noting that Kazakhstan is on the verge of creating a regional center, the chairman of the Senate proposed introducing a parliamentary criterion into the activities of this structure.
the bill aims to modernize social and labor relations in order to increase the investment attractiveness of the country and regulate migration processes.
During the meeting, the course of organizing the electronic referral of civil cases to the court through the "judicial cabinet" was discussed.
the results of the recent elections, which again demonstrated the support, high confidence of the Kazakhstani people in your domestic and foreign policy, testify to this, "the letter says.
dear compatriots!
further issues will be clarified.	our scientists have to work harder ,  he added .
This year, 64 thousand test protocols and 6 thousand protocols were sent abroad, "said S. Kurmangaliev.
in this regard, Kazakhstan is obviously a strong candidate.
According to the organizers, the signing of the memorandum is associated with the active development of Kazakh-Russian relations.
The Regional Coordinating Council for 6 months of this year approved 86 applications of business entities for budget assistance under the program.
It is noted that in January-October 2015, the volume of trades in shares on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (cash register) * amounted to 879.1 billion tenge (equivalent to 4,671.0 million US dollars) and increased by 8.8 times compared to the same period in 2014 (in dollar terms by 8.5 times).
According to him, within the framework of the EAEU, representatives of the member states of the union conduct a unified foreign trade and customs policy within the union.
As a result of integration, foreign companies can also monitor transfers passing through the territory of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of this event, it is also planned to hold a bilateral business forum "Investment Opportunities of the Provinces of Mangistau Region and the Islamic Republic of Iran," within the framework of which a memorandum is expected to be signed aimed at developing cooperation between the business sectors of both parties.
In turn, iad and amine madani highly appreciated Kazakhstan's desire to cooperate with the organization.
The constitution is a unique thing so that it is understood deeper than it reads.
I also say that for my part all support will be provided for the construction of the plant and the implementation of the joint project, "the Governor of the region said.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstan at any time creates friendly relations with neighboring countries.
Kazakh experts together with the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Afghanistan organized a round table on the topic: "Kazakhstan-Afghanistan today and tomorrow of bilateral relations."
during which the tactical and technical characteristics of the miles laser system and its use, the peculiarities of performing humanitarian demining tasks in the area, as well as the deployment of a military field hospital are demonstrated.
Good conditions for investors have been created in the region.
war and labor veterans were invited.
Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the national management holding Kazagro, akimats of regions, social and entrepreneurial corporations, retail chains, representatives of logistics centers of the cities of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, as well as large producers of potatoes and vegetable products took part in the 2015 Pavlodar potato fair.
Recall that the region hosted a business forum "Investment opportunities of the provinces of Mangistau region and the Islamic Republic of Iran."
in order to become one of the best in this competition and return to the country with a victory, athletes from Russia, Belarus, Turkey, Austria, Denmark, Germany and Italy need to confront.
Today, first-graders will work in all sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan in 2050, "the head of state said.
During the meeting, a visit of a Kazakh diplomat took place in the capital of the country. Mugabe presented the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The British national drug form, which is considered the "gold standard" in the world, has been taken as the basis for the stock, "said the etc.
prices for the main types of other exports, including black and non-ferrous metals, coal, also decreased.
the choice of topic is very relevant and does not require discussion. the choice of theme is undeniable and urgent .
this morning in the capital started boeing 767-300er. "
In accordance with this program and the requirements of the second five-year plan, training will be carried out for 2015-2017, "said the Vice Minister.
The sides noted the need to increase cooperation in a number of promising areas, as well as in the framework of international organizations.
According to him, today in Central Asia there are joint bodies that manage basins of raw materials, noise, susuz, but there are no problems with the rational consumption of sures.
Recall that for many years Kazakhstan celebrates Sports Day every third Sunday in August.
they do not affect modern society, they can create a parallel world, "said A. Saduakasova.
now on the open data portal you can find statistics on the number of classes, teachers and students, as well as data on the performance of schools connected to the e-learning system.
The Arab Emirate state is closely connected with Kazakhstan, which has its influence on the sphere of cooperation, "said the chairman of the Abu Dhabi Mnp.
members of the Kazakh delegation invited Mongolian colleagues to take part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
implemented projects have a significant impact on the socio-economic development of the country.
I did not want to give victory, I wanted my country and our army to be proud of me. i really wanted to win and our army to be proud of me .
The state program of development and functioning of languages in Kazakhstan for 2011-2020 is aimed at improving the language culture of Kazakhstanis.
bilateral negotiations related to the introduction of services to the market.
To date, 1,364 courtrooms are covered by new audio and video recordings, 555 of them.
The Ambassador of Nepal expressed hope for a stable partnership with Kazakhstan in realizing the existing potential, including through inter-ministerial consultations, as well as the use of cooperation tools between the parliaments of the two countries.
The adoption of sustainable development goals shows that a turning point has come for the countries and peoples of the world. the document that will be adopted at the summit serves as a global guide for development and prosperity .
In general, according to the requirements of the bill, from 2018, villages will be provided with their own budgets.
Just like humanity, we must seek and recognize religion, language, tolerance and patience, respect for each other.
the most competitive economies work well in terms of training and staff education. the most competitive economies work best with regard to training and education of staff .
improving the quality of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and China is directly related to the development of close relations between businessmen. the quality of economic and trade cooperation between china and kazakhstan is directly linked to the close relations between the businessmen of both countries .
measures should also be taken to minimize the impact of negative impacts on the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and the activities of the eurozone as a whole.
upon completion of training, cadets are issued a certificate of the driver of military infantry transport of the 3rd class with the qualification "junior specialist of the military administration" (manager) in the specialty "military administration" and a driver of vehicles in categories "c" and "c."
we are talking about an inclusive modernization of society based on transparency and comprehensive accountability of the authorities and the emergence of a new stage in the development of the civil sector. we are talking about inclusive modernization of the society in the plane of a comprehensive accountability and openness in government , as well as the onset of a new stage of development of the civil sector .
we must learn to shape as peaceful a life as possible, tolerance and respect for other views. together we can find ways how to live peacefully and learn to be tolerant and to respect the point of view , ways of life .
at the press conference "Miss Kazakhstan-2014" regina vandysheva, km "Youth of the capital" anuar nurpeis; fashion producer saken jaksybayev; " Astana - 2014 "Asia abisova; actor, director max akbar.
"I support the opinion of the President of Kazakhstan on the need for norms of international law in relations with states," the Ukrainian president added.
The Head of State named the main directions of further development of Almaty.
the law adopted by parliament is sent for signature to the head of state.
forecast of "negative" forecasts for changes in ratings, sovereign credit ratings.
According to the President of the Senate, 57 states, including this organization, which includes 4 nuclear powers, should contribute to building confidence between countries.
I will gladly continue a fruitful relationship with you, "the author writes.
The leaders of the two countries also exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
At the end of the meeting, the heads of the Shu delegates will meet with the President of Kazakhstan.
As the Vice President noted, for the first time in Kazakhstan, the state-owned company wins an international tender.
participants discussed issues of joint countering international terrorism, strengthening economic and humanitarian ties between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as overcoming some contradictions between the two structures.
During the meeting a. Musinov told the interlocutor of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev that in 2017-2018. non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
It is necessary to attach importance to this early small enterprise, because it is in this area that the main potential of the country's economic growth lies, "said the head of state.
I am sure that thanks to our cooperation we will be able to achieve good results and improve the quality of life of children, "said J.Mar.
this will allow you to quickly implement the program and help socially vulnerable segments of the population, "said A. Terentyev.
To expand the network of enterprises, 6 vegetables are being built with a storage capacity of 19,500 tons and 2 greenhouses with a capacity of 4,850 tons per year.
During the meeting, the Minister of Culture and Sports, Deputy Chairman of Kha, Director of the Republican Korean Musical Comedy Theater LP, Akim of Karaganda Region Bdibekov made a report.
now this method supplies construction items, heavy box boxes necessary for the ferry complex, other goods for the demand of domestic and foreign enterprises.
in the future, we could show our clips on the Russian, and then on the market of the CIS countries. in the future we want to rotate the clips on the russian market , then in the cis .
this project is aimed at a deep study of the Caspian pit and includes a wide range of research, technological and applied aspects.
With the accession of Kazakhstan to the WTO, the sphere of activity is expanding and competition is increasing. the accession of kazakhstan to the world trade organization will expand the trading platform , marketplace and competition .
Issues related to the formation of multilateral cooperation for the protection of public health and its further development.
the delegation was started by the Secretary of State of Gulshara Abdykalikova.
During the talks, it was noted that the high-level agreements reached during the official visit of the Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif to Kazakhstan in August this year laid a solid foundation for the further expansion of mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
Note that the Chilean side responsible for participation in the international exhibition, and the Chilean Foreign Ministry and the national corporation "prochile" in the near future will send an official confirmation to the Kazakh side.
Key documents signed during the business forum:
today our center knows not only Kazakhstan, but also the whole world.
To date, Kazakhstan has fully fulfilled its social security and security obligations. nowadays in terms of social well-being kazakhstan carries out all its social guarantees and commitments .
In addition, k.masimov, etc., considered a number of topical issues of the development of the international Olympic movement and multilateral cooperation in the field of sports.
This measure is aimed at the rapid socialization of children.
we now have a network of "Nazarbayev schools," "daryn" schools for gifted children, in other words, we have many conditions for the development of children.
among them the master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan on judo, the member of the national team, the prize-winner of the championships of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Asia and the world, the student of the military department of Kokshetau university named after A. Myrzakhmetov maxim Fomenko.
we will communicate with children, arrange concerts for them, the main thing is sincerely, sincerely giving children great joy, "said the Gurtskaya diana.
The capacity of the arena is 11,578 people, including 744 VIP seats and 288 seats in a restaurant with panoramic glass overlooking the playground.
In my opinion, we have come to a long period of low prices for raw materials, so it is necessary to make adjustments to economic policy, "said K. Makimov.
In general, I think that Kazakhstan continues its sustainable development.
in particular, these are the operator's activities for the development and sale of exports, the creation of business councils, the maintenance of a register of international exhibitions held on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international marketing, advertising support for domestic producers and other consulting services.
this year, 94.95 million tenge was allocated for the restoration of crop production, "said O.Tokzhanov.
but, if these tariffs are not, accordingly, the commission will begin a joint study with national antitrust authorities. but if these are not tariffs , respectively , the commission will start a joint investigation in accordance with national antitrust authorities .
this programme includes the mutual participation of various sectors, in particular in the field of public administration.
The agreement covers various aspects - consultation on the legislative and regulatory framework, training of personnel, equipping of court premises and provision of equestrian infrastructure.
other emergency approaches are envisaged, including non-tariff methods of regulating foreign trade aimed at stabilizing the situation in the real sector of the economy as a whole, the minister said.
The works of more than 13 artists from 6 regions of Kazakhstan are presented.
I am sure that your bright achievements will become a good example for our athletes and will stimulate the further development of boxing in our country, "the congratulation says.
this plan will be noted on different scales, "said S. Lebedev.
Representatives of two age groups showed their sports skills - under 14-15 years old and over 16-17 years old.
thanks to the financing of the joint-stock company Enterprise Development Fund, we reached the second stage of development, that is, we began to produce the raw materials necessary for carpets.
In three days, the international community will celebrate this day for the sixth time, "said R. Vasilenko.
The measures we take contribute to the creation of jobs in the countryside, "the Governor of the region said.
In general, the head of state set himself tasks that include tactical anti-crisis regulatory programs, "the expert said.
proof on high-quality silver coins.
Akims of the capital and Almaty, akims of the regions were instructed to create a mediation center in regional friendship houses.
One of the activities of the inter-parliamentary council is the elaboration of proposals for the rapprochement and harmonization of national legislation of the two countries. one of the activities of the inter-parliamentary council is to develop recommendations on the approximation and harmonization of the national legislations of the two countries .
also added nominations such as "classical music" (violin, viola, cello, double bass, vocals, piano), "fine art" (sculpture, decorative applied art), "folk music" (dombra, song with dombra) and "circus art."
a. Dzhaksybekov spoke about major construction projects and preparations held in the capital as part of the upcoming international specialized exhibition EXPO, and expressed confidence that the Vilnius administration will provide information support for the important event of 2017 in the capital.
today we signed a grant agreement with the World Bank. today we have signed a grant agreement with the world bank .
According to the Ministry of Defense, within the framework of the two-day talks, representatives of the defense departments of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Russia, Belarus and Armenia, the secretariat and the joint headquarters of the Collective Security Treaty Organization agreed on a cardinal scenario, a practical part and organizational aspects, specified the number of participants in the upcoming large-scale exercise.
According to the organizers, the congress will be an important platform for discussing the problems and potential of miners, metallurgists and miners in the development of the industry.
By agreement, Kazakhstan and Serbia establish a free trade regime in mutual trade in accordance with their national legislation and the principles of the world trade organization.
the introduction of innovative technologies will successfully realize all the tasks of social policy, provide the population with high-quality services and develop the individual and find their place, "he said.
According to the head of the center, the national prevention mechanism reveals violations in children's institutions.
First of all, special attention is paid to the quality of projects, the competitiveness of products, the search for markets, as well as the search for new opportunities to attract investment.
the organization has already gained a lot of experience. the organization has a lot of experience .
Therefore, comprehensive work is being carried out by the state in this area, including the liberalization of legislation on the Australian method.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in an interview with the company's staff noted the importance of supporting the population of domestic producers.
According to the dean, the first distinction should be a bachelor's degree for those entering medical school.
The discussions at the forum showed considerable interest in the initiatives of the island States regarding the development of innovative technologies and the exchange of experience in this field, as well as the strengthening of bilateral relations.
In terms of specific tests, the community needs to stop the development of nuclear weapons.
the number of convicts decreased from 63 to 41 thousand people
The largest concentration of small businesses cannot be slow; in May, indicators in the financial center decreased (minus 0.1%, to 22.2%).
At the end of the meeting, Abdykalikova congratulated medical workers on the upcoming professional holiday, wished good health and success in working for the good of the country.
at night, they fired ak-74 sniper rifle and dragoons.
Last year, 401 thousand babies came to life. "
the first section includes essays by leading Russian leaders, observers, international journalists on the personal qualities and activities of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The armed forces include members of the national team of the Republic of Kazakhstan, champions and prize-winners of world and continental championships in various sports.
During the competition, the works of the youth choir of the international organization of Turkish culture Mozart, antonio lotti, jozef Svider and the works of the "chorale" of the famous Kazakh composer erkegali rahmadiyev were performed.
At the expense of own funds, the enterprises provided 74.4% of all capital investments in January-June 2015.
it will give our economy and science new scientific discoveries.
Many programs initiated by the president are aimed at including Kazakhstan among the first competitive countries, "the vice minister added.
According to the press service of the Center for Technology Commercialization LLP, the innovative production of Rentan LLP has been launched under MTK Kazakhstan.
are ready to support water management projects in other regions of Kazakhstan. "
touching on the foreign policy of the country, a. Musinov informed about the initiative of Kazakhstan to create a council on interaction and confidence-building measures in Asia and called on Bhutan to join this forum.
however, despite the support of the state, the "heat commune" serves its costs.
on strengthening trade and economic relations, deepening inter-parliamentary cooperation, as well as improving the legal framework between states.
the council's proposals were approved and used by the upcoming 5 congresses, "N. Nazarbayev said.
So there is an opportunity to say that Italy is the closest cultural partner of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
not enough meetings between the child and the legal side. it is not enough to punish in terms of the law .
a. Jaksybekov, etc., as well as issues of bilateral partnership between the capital and Milan.
M. Dobloug has extensive experience in managing companies operating in the fields of exchange operations, trade, real estate and securities investment.
together with state symbols, we can imagine ourselves as a nation.
It is planned that the facility will be launched in August of this year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev is also scheduled to meet with representatives of the business and financial elite of a number of states.
Among the main speakers at the plenary session were the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Canada Konstantin Zhigalov, the Minister for Natural and Water Resources of Manitoba Tom nevakshnoff, the Vice Minister of Energy Alberta sandra loke, the Deputy Chairman of the Board "eiua" kaznexinvest "kairat pockets and others.
on the fight against corruption, "observance of national security in protecting the republic from threats, the absence of corruption in the state apparatus.
Also, as part of the implementation of presidential instructions, 5 strategic areas were identified, including the textile industry, automotive, chemical industry, glass production, food industry and agriculture.
Today, Almaty is the economic center of the country and forms most of the republican budget, despite the crisis, the volume of the city exceeds some of our neighbors.
Establishment of interfaith dialogue and development of dialogue between culture and religion. it is important to encourage everyone who defends dialogue of religions and cultures and takes care of the development of inter-religious dialogue .
Within the framework of the action, the work of family planning offices, youth health centers will continue, where medical, diagnostic, psychological and other services will be provided.
the private sector had a major impact on the country's economy. the private sector has a huge impact on the economic development of the country .
the state allocates large sums to provide drinking water and implement the Business Road Map 2020 programs aimed at improving the quality of life of the population and creating favorable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship.
In addition, the Prime Minister instructed to adopt without a package of documents that exclude the unreasonable rise in price of socially significant food and services.
this round table has become traditional and is held annually.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that many benefits and advantages are legally enshrined in the country in order to form the most favorable investment climate for investors.
in total, 11,352 scholarships were awarded during the years of the program, 8,341 people were trained. in 2014 , on behalf of the president , the program was reduced by half , this year the share of the total award of fellowships is not more than 10 % .
70,772 rights were registered for registration of real estate rights in the first half of 2015, including 13,653 electronic rights and 3713 accelerated rights.
According to the business plan, most of the construction costs should be borne by investors, and the state, through the social and entrepreneurial corporation Irtysh, will be among the founders.
He expressed confidence that this support will allow the government to annually assist in the implementation of the Agribusiness 2020 program.
in addition to the water supply, as part of the White Stream program, a supply of drinking water was built at the local point.
Nazarbayev University also surprised me.
thanks for the interview!
a resolution confirming the construction work is necessary, "he said.
At the same time, as the chairman of the Constitutional Court noted, "in our constitution, the fundamental principles remain unchanged - this is the sovereignty of our state, constitutional law and the freedom of citizens."
If the judicial levels are reduced, the role of the appeal should increase, there are cases that will be considered by the panel, "he said.
in addition, he noted that the state creates all conditions for civil servants.
work is ongoing on a project to improve the judicial monitoring system, "he said, speaking to partners.
and the main work will begin tomorrow.
Applications for participation in the competition were submitted by more than 70 manufacturers from all regions of Kazakhstan.
the leader of the nation - President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Constitution adopted at a referendum on August 30, 1995, has the most expensive values, Kazakhstan, which is its rights and freedoms, as a secular, legal and social state, seeking independence, its strengthening has become a symbol of the period that provided for comprehensive and phased consolidation, "- said the acting.
Thanks to the wise and far-sighted policy of the head of state, new schools are being built, equipment is being updated, all the necessary conditions are being created for the quality education of the younger generation. thanks to the wise policy of elbasy , the state constructs new schools , updates equipment , and creates all conditions for the younger generation to get a decent education .
Let your ways of life be open. "
Health care is provided to targeted groups such as adolescents, youth, employers and employees of organizations of all forms of ownership.
more than 4.5 thousand people from the countries participating in the exhibition. more than 4.5 thousand people from participating countries will come to us .
at this conference we heard about various ideas and ways to solve the problems. during this conference we have heard different ideas and some useful solutions .
Minister of Economy of the Republic of Turkey nihat Zeibekji expressed a desire to take part in the implementation of the projects of the state program "Nұrly zhol," the reconstruction of the seaport in Aktau, and also proposed to resume cooperation between Turkey and the EAEU countries.
In total, 14,632 people were sentenced to imprisonment, including 3,830 people. total 14,632 persons have been convicted , including 3830 persons who have been sentenced .
we see in many ways an improvement in competitiveness in Asian countries.
in addition, the requirements of international agreements such as dsu, eaeo were taken as a basis for the preparation of the bill.
During the signing, the head of the region noted the importance and relevance of this event for the regional center.
Also in Kyzylorda, the construction of a plant for the processing of feed, rice and ceramic bricks was completed.
As part of the forum today, we have the opportunity to discuss important issues, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Presenting the message of the head of state to support Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council, B. Grimsson spoke about the contribution of our country to global nuclear disarmament, including Kazakhstan's renunciation of nuclear weapons, the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, the creation of a bank of low enriched uranium and other international initiatives.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the creation of a business council with the aim of establishing cooperation in such areas as agricultural processing, chemical and light industry, the banking sector.
I think that this show will cause a great resonance, even at the world level, "the rector emphasized.
According to the results of this year, 120 projects will be put into operation within the framework of the industrialization map, of which 3 are republican projects. by the end of the current year within the framework of the industrialization map , 120 projects will be commissioned including 3 projects of national significance , which will make a significant contribution to the development of economy .
we began not only to give birth to new varieties, but also to improve the quality of old local varieties. in addition to new varieties , we also try to improve the local varieties .
one of them personally knew Nursultan Nazarbayev, met in different years and events.
the experience of such projects has shown good results.
The Deputy Prime Minister noted that on behalf of the head of state, the government adopted a set of measures to ensure all social obligations.
in particular, Chairman of the CIS Economic Court L. Amenkova noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev, being a visionary and wise politician, gained undisputed authority as the true leader of the Kazakh people.
deputy chairman of the kha - head of the secretariat, doctor of political sciences, akim of the Zhambyl region Karim Kokrekbayev, director of the research center for the study of the korkyt heritage of the Kazakh National University of Arts, member of the scientific and expert council of the kha, doctor of philological sciences, professor of myrzatai zholasbek, members of the kha scientific and expert council of kha, prominent historians of Kazakhstan and CIS countries, members of youth, public figures, representatives of cultural associations.
Baiterek holding is ready to finance this project in the amount of 200-250 million US dollars.
First of all, we must establish the production of modern, effective feed and feed additives, biological and chemical drugs, including veterinary drugs and plant protection products, "said Sergey Sidorsky.
of which more than 2 million are at the expense of state funds, the rest was built at the expense of the share of housing construction and large construction companies, "the vice minister said.
National Commission on Women and Family and Demographic Policy. the national commission for women affairs , family and demographic policy under the president of the republic of kazakhstan is a consultative body .
it is possible that on Islamic territory there were churches, synagogues, that is, other religious missions, "added M. Ayyrgaliyev.
As part of the presentation of the memorial complex dedicated to Abylkayyr Khan, in the regional center and the aitekebi district, socially significant and cultural and sports events were held, including the international scientific conference "Development of the Kazakh Khanate: events, personalities," the international fair of craftsmen, a photo exhibition, a republican fairy tale of poets, the opening of a monument to the willing batyr, etc.
Today, the interaction of educational institutions and industries has not yet reached what both sides expect, employers should be closely connected with universities, "the head of the department concluded.
The company will open an interactive website, which will provide information on all activities of the nursing home, as well as information will be distributed through social protection departments, nursing services, hospitals, social assistance centers for pensioners.
It is worth noting that to date, the construction of expo facilities has been completed by 35-40%.
it is planned to expand similar production in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union by increasing duties on finished products, "said Andrei Slepnov, a member of the trade board.
And the wipon program can determine that the product is not a copy of the hatch code, "said A. Nurlybaeva.
this sign is installed on finished products, that is, it is good propaganda.
a group of 14 nationalities live peacefully in our country. in our country , there are 140 nationalities and many religions .
spouses raise five of their own and two adopted children. the couple has seven children , two of them are adopted children .
in Europe, the exercises of the "Cambrian patrol" are considered the most difficult.
only about 700 people.
the urban industry covers unclaimed areas of investment.
During the meeting, issues related to health care were discussed, including the provision of first aid, the work of regional scientific and specialized medical organizations and rural medical institutions and other relevant issues.
the agreement is aimed at strengthening mutual agreement in the area of ​ ​ the state border, ensuring the state border and zone, bilateral chairmanship and resolving the situation within the borders of the two countries.
the festive event was accompanied by a concert program.
technicians and foremen of electromechanical, rocket-artillery, assault combat units, warhead of radio equipment and communications, "the report said.
the President of Russia positively received the proposal.
The Minister thanked the Head of State for the invitation, noting the importance of strengthening bilateral ties.
he also thanked everyone who took part in the launch.
before that, kefir and sour cream were transfused manually, now it is done on equipment, which reduces the risk of bacteria and allows you to increase production, "said Ashatzhan Ibraev, director of the Belaya Neka dairy.
Kazh Arms workshop was opened on the basis of a future factory for the production of protective headgear (helmets).
64 projects totaling KZT11,919.5 million were approved for bank loans/interest rate subsidies of leasing companies.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that conclusions regarding the difficult situation on the world market are made on the basis of negotiations held in China, the USA, as well as with the Russian leadership.
Investments in fixed assets in the construction industry increased 2.7 times, in transport and warehousing - 2.3 times, "he said.
The issues of preparation for the upcoming anniversary dates - the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other international events were also considered.
"Currently, prerequisites are being created between the participants in the transportation process along this route for the creation of an international trans-Caspian consortium," said Yerzhan Zhakishev, vice president of trade and marketing at ktz express.
all work here should be completed by October 1.
Kazakhstan exports 1.3 times more finished goods from other countries of the world, while the population of European countries is 3 times more. kazakhstan exports finished product 1.3 times more than all the central asian countries .
According to the executive director of kaznex invest gaziza shahanov, the company itself cannot reimburse all expenses, so distribution is made only on applications.
thus, the constitution received the support of most of the Kazakh people. thus , the constitution was approved by the overwhelming majority of citizens of kazakhstan .
One of the priority directions of the development of the oath of Kazakhstan, the President noted the development of product processing and the involvement of transnational companies.
The deal amounted to KZT206.132 billion for 25 years.
gross regional product amounted to 143.3 billion tenge.
According to him, modern youth should know about how the history of Kazakhstan began to develop.
as well as leading representatives of reputable international organizations, including the pair, the organization of Islamic cooperation, UNESCO, the World Islamic League, the alliance of civilizations, ecu, etc.
According to the director, the action "Made in Kazakhstan" initiated by the head of state is posted in all retail chains of the country.
Governor of Shymkent gabidullah abdrakhimov, representatives of South Kazakhstan region akimat and Transtelecom took part in the meeting.
samruk-kazyna is the only shareholder of a white company.
"The new economic policy is a response to negative conditions in today's world economy," the Kelimbet concluded.
At the same time, state measures to support the development of single-industry towns are integrated into the single business support and development program "Business Roadmap 2020."
In one of his messages, the head of state noted that today women are not only family leavers, but also the backbone of the state.
here, work to attract new investors is not at the proper level.
we were able to maintain our position in the space of the countries of the post-Soviet space. this is the second best result among the cis countries after azerbaijan ( 40th place ) .
It is necessary to intensify the work, complete the coating and strengthen the finishing work. it is necessary to complete the roof , reinforce the finishing work .
all this contributes to the competitiveness of Kazakhstan, "the expert noted.
The field day was attended by factories for the production of equipment, the North Kazakhstan, Akmola regions, Chelyabinsk, Sverdlovsk, Belgorod, Yaroslavl regions of Russia, as well as St. Petersburg, Moscow cities, as well as dealers of Serbia and the Republic of Tatarstan.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
In turn, honorary consuls made concrete proposals for holding joint events in various cities of Germany in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
To do this, we are raising the issue of creating visa centers in the regions of the country, "F. Etienne said.
The parties also exchanged views and experiences on the use of these technologies. as a result of negotiations , the government of uzbekistan expressed great interest in the data of kazakh spacecraft , " the statement reads .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the participation of the Secretary General in the congress will significantly increase the importance of the event.
Russia has a legal basis in the field of combating terrorism and extremism, "he said.
In addition, the head of government noted that Kazakhstan could become one of the main and promising trade and investment partners of Serbia in the region.
an additional building of the Eurasian Technological University will be built in the Almalinsky district.
such competitions make our descendants think about what they expect tomorrow, the main thing is to preserve family values ​ ​ and do it for the younger generation, "said E. Tarasenko.
In turn, the ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusupov said that the president is the president. the historical significance and world significance of Nazarbayev's decisive decision to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, as well as Kazakhstan's refusal of the fourth largest nuclear arsenal in the world.
young wing - 2006 poultry farm carries out a large-scale modernization, which will bring egg production to 250 thousand units per year.
Kazakhstan sets great goals for economic modernization, one of which is to improve energy efficiency.
and at least Kazakhstan expects first of all hospitality, pentathlon and silver, because they know about it.
thanks to the Western European - Western Chinese transport corridor, traffic and trade have grown, and most importantly, the state of roads between settlements in the region has improved, "said the head of the region.
this project is funded by the European Union and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland, "the report said.
- Today we hold the first conference on this project.
During the conference, representatives of tourism organizations of Kazakhstan and Armenia discussed the possibilities of intensifying cooperation in the tourism sector.
Representatives of the baiterek familiarized the head of state with the work of the Prommashcomplekt partnership for the production of railway transport in Pavlodar.
crews of MiG-29, Su-25, Su-27 and Mi-8 aircraft and helicopters will take part in the international competition on behalf of the Kazakh air force.
Among the bilateral cooperation projects are the production of a photovoltaic module in Kazakhstan and its use in the construction of an Indian power plant, the construction of a gas pipeline power plant and a kaznex invest steel plant in Kazakhstan.
The head of state also drew attention to the need to draw Kazakhstan's attention to issues of ensuring environmental safety along with the tasks of industrialization, the development of the agricultural sector and small and medium-sized businesses.
Speaking about the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the head of state paid special attention to the importance of history and national values ​ ​ for Kazakh society and especially young people. speaking about the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate , the head of state stressed the importance of the history and spiritual component for the kazakhstani society , and especially for young people .
in the nomination "dombra" - Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, professor, artistic director and chief conductor of the orchestra of Kazakh folk instruments of the state academic philharmonic.
The event was attended by famous scientists, historians and representatives of the National Chamber of State Books of Kazakhstan.
In the framework of negotiations between delegations, we discussed issues of politics, the economy, and discussed the potential between our countries.
we are studying international experience, according to the data, no WTO member state has abandoned its producers.
in addition, the parties discussed issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation. participation in the international specialized exhibition, the work of the intergovernmental commission and the business council, the possibility of opening the capital's branch of the Institute of Cooperation in the field of tourism, holding the next meeting of the mixed commission on cooperation in the field of education, culture and science, holding a period of culture or a week of culture in Kazakhstan and expanding legal databases.
The celebration of the Day of State Symbols is a strengthening of society based on respect for the state symbols of the country, preservation of historical values ​ ​ and unity of Kazakhstanis, "said Colonel Koishykulov, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan for educational and ideological work.
preconditions for the development of fisheries. the consulting company must specify measures to develop the sector .
our state successfully cooperates with eidu.
today the situation with employment, payment of wages is deteriorating. now there is deterioration in the employment situation , the payment of wages .
this inspires the human heart.
With the end of two playing days, the prize games were approved as follows: 1st place - Sandyktau district, 2nd place - Kokshetau, 3rd place - Stepnogorsk.
they are actively involved in our cultural life.
the event ended with the performance of the author's song "Shine of the Blue Flag."
among the adopted laws - 4 constitutional, 9 voluntary laws, 35 - on amending and supplementing certain legislative acts and 65 - on ratifying international agreements.
T. In her speech, Valova noted important issues of the Eurasian Economic Commission and its first results as a new integration structure in the current international economic situation.
It is planned to launch 13 projects in the field of agricultural processing: 2 workshops for the processing of vegetable oil, 3 workshops for the processing of meat, 3 enterprises for the processing of milk, 3 workshops for the production of bread and bread products.
The project provides for the reconstruction of water structures and the attraction of the necessary domestic and foreign investments, and most importantly - support for the transition of our country to a green economy, "the ambassador said.
It should be noted that Governor of Karaganda region Nurmukhambyuet Abdibekov met with the holders of the scholarship of the President of Kazakhstan "Future International Educational Program."
in the coming years there will be a sports center, an agro-industrial park, a shopping and entertainment center.
As part of the second direction, 2.2 thousand people studied in the basics of entrepreneurship.
all this will lead to loss of energy of weavers, "said the Vice Minister.
A. Mamin noted that Turkmenistan has done great work on the implementation of the project "Construction of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway corridor," the creation of a new configuration of the transport corridor connecting the countries of the Persian Gulf, India, Iran with the western zone of China, the Caucasus, Russia and the countries of the European Union.
According to him, as noted by President of the Republic of Kazakhstan A. Lukashenko, the inter-ethnic model established in Kazakhstan has become the basis for respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens, the main factor in maintaining stability in the region.
Fair coordination of water is very important for stability in the region.
in particular, excessive approvals, the list of requested documents and the time frame for consideration are reduced. in particular , the body will shorten the list of required documents and the review time .
experts discussed issues of a comprehensive nature, including the situation in the region, as well as the relationship between the scientific communities of Kazakhstan and Afghanistan.
unilaterally, we discussed in detail the implementation of the agreement on a free trade zone - the main document in the post-Soviet space in the field of trade and economic cooperation. in narrow groups we discussed implementing agreement on free trade zone - key document in the post-soviet space in the sphere of trade and economic cooperation .
Kazelectromontazh-s is responsible for maintaining the power supply system.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the re-election of A. Lukashenko is a reliable guarantor of the systemic development of Kazakh-Belarusian relations and the deepening of the integration of the two countries, primarily within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
First Deputy Prime Minister b.sagintayev spoke on the first question.
these are pupils of trainer Anatoly Permyakov archat kemelbayev (60 kg) and zhandos khairullaev (75 kg).
actively participates in the political life of Norway, is engaged in charity work.
Also, miners, metallurgists and miners will discuss the problems and potential of the development of the industry.
The main partner of language training is the leading international organization in the field of education - the British Council.
The Group is one of the leading countries in the development of open data.
The regional championship was held from June 3 to 7. the unt was held from june 3 - 7 .
premium size - 18.6 million tenge.
Recall that the Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Tamara Duissenova met with a special representative of the regional director of the WHO regional office for Europe, deputy head of the infectious diseases department.
Minister of National Economy Y. Dossayev, Attorney General
Governor of the region spoke about the potential of eastern Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture.
the fourth is "the energy of the future."
this year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of Kha, the 20th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, "L. ni said.
The competence of the updated board will include an assessment of the professional qualifications of judges, "he said.
during the trip e. Mayor of the city of Kazan cardiff d. With a walker, Deputy Chairman of the National Assembly of Wales D. dending, Director of the Department of Business, Economic Sciences and Transport of the Welsh Government M. McGuaer, as well as representatives of the academic and business community.
According to him, as of October 1, 2015, 230 thousand applications from depositors were received to re-issue deposits.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, the winners of the contest "Batyr Bees" met residents and guests of the capital in arms.
compliance of the training tower with all requirements and measures of fire preparation.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening bilateral relations, as well as the development of multilateral relations within the framework of the inter-parliamentary union and the parliamentary union of the organization of Islamic cooperation were discussed.
But our smoke is ahead, and we are proud of it. "
more attention is paid to young people. special attention is paid to work with young people .
we are ready to conduct joint exercises, as we have considerable experience of joint training and competitions with Kazakhstan. we are ready to conduct joint exercises , because we have experience in joint training with kazakhstan .
This year, our department, together with other cultural events, holds an event dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the hero of the Soviet Union, an outstanding writer, public figure, researcher of literature, "said the deputy director of the Department of Culture and Art Nurbolat Akhmetzhanov.
So, expert L. Asylbekova spoke about a qualified approach to the selection of civil servants.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan visited and. Aliyeva thanked for participating in the solemn meeting dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
at the first stage, it is planned to produce motor fuel of ecological class k4 and k5 (analogues of Euro-4 and Euro-5) in accordance with the requirements of the technical regulations of the customs union.
to us - r. choreographers of the play to the music of a generous and m. ravel - Mukaram Avakhr (Kazakhstan) and Nikolai Markelov (Russia).
President of the Kazakhstan Ice Hockey Federation and President of the International Renee Fazel Hockey Federation scored the first goal in the new hockey arena.
During the meeting, partners of European countries expressed support for Kazakhstan's efforts to simplify the visa regime in Kazakhstan and the EU to begin negotiations.
During the conversation, the King of Saudi Arabia congratulated the head of state on the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan for all Muslims and wished the Kazakhstanis well-being.
taking a military oath is an important moment in the life of every young person.
The volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 199.5 billion tenge.
the main goal of this boarding house is to create a barrier-free environment for the quality education of children with disabilities and create all the conditions for their adaptation to society.
in his opinion, the expansion of the borders of the EAEU will strengthen trade relations between the Kyrgyz Republic and the Republic of Kazakhstan by removing customs barriers.
music gives a person strength, mood, health, and, most importantly, she can become a secular publisher.
work is ongoing.
Thus, active work on the implementation of the project has already begun.
the secret to success is accessible to everyone.
on Ukrainian soil, many Kazakhstanis surrendered, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The President of Kazakhstan proposed to hold the next XIII Forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in the capital.
this institute will compile and maintain an energy efficiency map, "A. Issekeshev explained.
congressman. Rohrabaker stressed the geopolitical importance of the country and its large economic potential, and also highly appreciated the unique model of inter-ethnic harmony in Kazakhstan.
this financial instrument will allow participating banks of credit syndicates not only to distribute risks, but also to oversee projects efficiently, and borrowers, in turn, to achieve long-term financing, the conditions of which are beneficial, "said the chairman of the board of Kdb bolat Zhamishev.
the tournament was held at a high level. the tournament was held at the highest level .
Within the framework of the exhibition, grain, oilseeds, honey, production filter and filter worlds, souvenirs, fish processing and tourism activities were presented at the national exhibition stand of our state.
We believe that the current situation at exporting enterprises should not affect the wages of its employees, in the future the situation will improve, which will allow us to ensure the economic growth of the country, "the head of state said.
Today, servicemen of 6 countries will hold competitions in running 100 meters, power exercises, bringing to normal combat condition and inspection of ak-74, military sports shooting, wearing a combined arms defensive complex, as well as throwing cold weapons and aiming a target.
after commissioning, the volume of investments will amount to 1.5 billion tenge.
nevertheless, I believe that at the same time our governments are urgently working to solve the problems that have arisen.
He also noted that during the visit the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral relations and the international agenda.
this is a situation that has developed in connection with state legal policy and judicial reform, which the head of state supported at the vi congress of judges of the republic.
on this day, people forgive their lungs and become close to each other.
During the visit, the President of Kazakhstan will hold talks with Emir Sheikh Tamim and Hamad al-Thani.
As a result of the policy of the head of state, all favorable conditions for the education of our children are created in the country. thanks to the policy of the head of the state , the country creates favorable conditions to get education .
As the head of state explained, Kazakhstan and Ukraine solve all issues within the framework of mutual understanding.
The head of the region invited the Finnish side to meet again and discuss cooperation at the Irtysh-invest investment forum, which will be held in the fall.
this event is held by President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Way to a bright future."
During the meeting, it was noted that Kazakhstan presides over the XIV Agreement against Nuclear Weapons with Japan.
the company is engaged in the production of cable products.
taking into account these conditions, we organize: seminars, private consultations, create conditions for the participation of domestic communities in foreign exhibitions, help them maintain contacts with international companies, organizations, "he said.
Thus, the Dusembayev family took 3rd place at the city level of the Jubilee Family contest.
During the competition, among the soldiers and sergeants of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan, military personnel with the greatest skill will be identified.
At the same time, documents were received on the implementation of this plan, the deputy concluded.
a national modernization commission had been established.
this will not affect the family and children.
At the beginning of the meeting abdykalikova congratulated the team and the BJB team on the 20th anniversary of their activities in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-August last year increased by 7.5% and amounted to 14,523 people.
this is a very prestigious competition in which such bright stars as beyonce, valery leontyev, vitas will perform.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of the Nazarbayev initiative. national champions " program was developed in the framework of the president 's initiatives .
During this year, everyone should properly plan their work for the timely, proper implementation of the tasks, "said Governor of the region Nurlan Nogaev.
today we are preparing for the Olympic Games, we train three times a day.
The event was attended by representatives of academia, heads of diplomatic corps accredited in the country.
at a press conference, a member of the Senate of Parliament, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, Defense and Security of the Hadyrbek people; Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhans, Chairman of the Committee on Religious Affairs of the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
Recall that World Breastfeeding Week is held annually at the initiative of WHO from August 1 to 7.
we wrote a detailed biography of our family to participate in the competition, "said the Minister of Health.
legal projects, the economy, small and medium-sized businesses, protection of public and civil rights.
On average, prices do not return to initial recovery.
Following the meetings, Askar Zhumagaliyev invites business partners to take part in the international exhibition "Astana Expo-2017" on the topic "energy of the future."
a new format of strategic plans and new methods of developing budget programs were used in the development of the draft national budget for 2016-2018.
100 concrete steps should be implemented in 5 main sectors, about which the President of Kazakhstan heard from Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At present, an agreement has been reached with alageum electric JSC, Kazneft LLP, Zhambylstroy LLP, Kazphosphat LLP and other enterprises on the distribution of places for the production practice of students and further employment, "the state institution explained.
however, despite minor unrest, the winners of the "batyrs," like the real soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, also passed this test.
Thanks to the special support of the supreme commander and constant attention to the issues of state defense, the general state of the army is at a fairly good level, "the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov said at the board.
Establishing mechanisms to suspend the assets of individuals and entities associated with the financing of terrorism and extremism; Establishing mechanisms for access to the necessary part of the means for essential life needs as part of the suspension (suspension) of operations in accordance with the amendment (humanitarian amendment) of United Nations Security Council resolution No. 1452; Improving mechanisms for bringing the list of organizations and persons associated with the financing of terrorism and extremism to financial monitoring entities and relevant State regulatory bodies.
Gerhard Schroeder noted that the decisive and decisive development of Kazakh society, large-scale reforms and improving the welfare of the nation are associated with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
topical issues on the international agenda were also raised.
The commission includes employees of state bodies, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, a civil alliance, educational unions, and university rectors.
the book will be attracted annually to first graders. " Suhanberdiev.
The Republican Turkish Center intends to contribute to the social program of our country.
the Central Asian region and Afghanistan have long-standing rich cultural and historical values. the central asian region and afghanistan enjoy common long-standing historical and cultural values .
65% of the total income came from the provision of communication services to the population and amounted to 53139.2 million tenge, which is 16.1% lower than the level of the corresponding period of 2014, the report said.
He added that due to the exchange rate difference in the loan received from international financial institutions, significant funds will be saved, which in 2017 will be used to build new sections of roads with a length of 1 thousand km.
meetings with representatives of political parties, discussions with representatives of garden and civil society are planned.
Following the talks, the Secretary of State noted that the participants adopted the Astana declaration with the priority of voting.
today mom is sitting at home, retiring, raising grandchildren and great-grandchildren. now my mother is at home , she had retired , brings up the grandchildren .
on the construction site, guests were told about the pace of construction, conducted excursions to the main objects of the exhibition and presented with memorable gifts.
In turn, this is due to the support of domestic exporters by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan under the Nұrly Zhol program.
It will be attended by members of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, Doctor of Economics Anatoly Shokhmakov and director of the republican state institution "public consent" under the President of Kazakhstan Natalya Kalashnikova.
in Kyzylorda, the Deputy Prime Minister visited a number of social facilities - a new secondary school with data on the beginning of the school year and a family-type children's village "atameken," examined classrooms, got acquainted with the conditions for raising children.
everything is under control.
A video about the exhibition was presented to the guests.
At the end of June, it decreased by 0.1%.
The event was organized by the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan together with the National State Book Chamber of the country and the association of publishers, printing artists and book distributors.
Therefore, it is important that the clergy be a dialogue platform. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the agreement on strategic partnership signed between Kazakhstan and Tajikistan is of great importance, and noted that the legislative bodies of the two countries play an important role in its implementation.
The press conference will be attended by the chairman of the Association of Councils "bolashak" kuandyk bishimbayev, the managing director of "baiterek" bh ak kanysh zhaқyny zh zhayyna, the chairman of the board of "damu" zat ibragimov.
Permanent Representative drew attention to the essence of the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. on the convening in the capital of a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
also within the framework of the congress, a meeting of Nursultan Nazarbayev with the general secretary of the party and the king of Jordan abdullah II is planned.
the responsibility of religious leaders lies in disseminating and promoting consent, "he said.
The authors of the film represent modern Kazakhstan in terms of historical, technical and professional development, invite foreign guests to our country.
All favorable conditions for youth have been created and maintained in our state, "the Governor of the region noted during the opening of the forum.
now the capital of Kazakhstan has become a fashion law.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 8,845 citizens who applied, 5394 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, out of 1861 people, applications were accepted to change the details, 1,590 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
your university makes a great contribution to the formation and development of the personnel potential of industrial zones not only in Russia, but also in our country. your university makes a significant contribution to the formation and development of human resources of industrial zones , not only of russia , but also of our country .
they worked on sailing near the sea, danger on the surface of the water, setting the boat at 30-40 meters, sending and receiving signals in accordance with the international auxiliary signaling ISS-65.
the first is the modernization of the transport train, the second is the organization of high-speed traffic, the third is the improvement of the quality of services, "said A. Aldykozov.
The construction of this outpatient clinic began in September last year.
According to him, despite the difficult situation outside the country, the state allocated grants in terms of last year's volumes.
expanding the existing passenger terminal and bringing the capacity of passengers from 750 to 1750 passengers per hour or up to 7 million passengers per year is the goal of the project. the aim of the project is to expand the passenger terminal and increase the capacity up to 7 million passengers a year , " b. seidakhmetov said .
Thus, Kazakhstan automakers are building in five main areas.
today a certain part of this data is available, "A. Rakhimzhanova said.
And from April to the present, more than 150 containers have been sent in the direction of Europe - Kazakhstan - China, "said Zhaslan Hamzin, director of the department of Ktz express JSC.
In addition, during an interview, the Nurbek noted that when "forming a professional state apparatus," internal optimizations should be carried out.
During the conversation, the presidents discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
There are also 83 schools in the regions aimed at teaching diet therapy, physical severity and insulin therapy, "he said.
according to the expert, all these factors reflect the high potential of our country in global politics.
According to him, the government is developing a set of measures to contain tariffs or curb the growth of tariffs of natural monopolies, in particular, Turkey, Brazil, Australia, Russia.
The dynamics of the development of the assembly industry has been growing dynamically in recent years. the dynamics of the ict sector has been rapidly growing in recent years .
we were a few people. there were a few people to help her .
successfully completed uiidmb, which proves high ratings and specific figures, implemented projects. we successfully completed spfiid , this is confirmed by the high appreciation of the head of state , by numbers and realized projects .
according to the project concept, the new terminal will be connected to the railway and bus stations, as well as to the transport and logistics center, which is now preparing for launch.	according to the project , the new terminal will be integrated with the train and bus stations , transport and logistics center , which is currently being prepared for commissioning .	1,02
According to the results of this year, real GDP growth in the region is planned to increase to 103.4% due to an increase in production in all sectors of the economy, primarily in agriculture, "said the head of the region.
they will undergo intensive training for a month under the guidance of experienced instructors, and then represent our country at the international competition "Commonwealth Warrior."
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the visit of the sharif will give a new impetus to the intensification of bilateral relations.
Representatives of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
all conditions for the upbringing and education of children are created here.
In addition, 60-70 thousand cars from other cities come to the city every day.
in honor of this holiday, Muslims around the world take care of their loved ones, regardless of race, nationality, and, if possible, provide material and spiritual support to those in need.
thus, in the eurozone countries, medical medicines are distributed that meet only gmp standards (the "gold standard" confirming the quality, safety and effectiveness of medicines).
Today, the personnel of the military unit 35748 continues to observe its military traditions and improve combat training, increase combat readiness and strengthen discipline.
the volume index for the transport industry was 106.7%.
when selecting and distributing military units, the specialties, state of health, physical and moral and psychological training received by future military personnel before conscription are taken into account.
at the meeting of the commission, the results of inspections were discussed with the participation of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Development JSC.
In addition, the Republic of Kazakhstan is a gate that overlooks the Eurasian space, and the sea ports of Bulgaria will become a stable reliable bridge for Kazakhstan for the Black Sea zone and the Balkan eo.
qualifications of candidates are evaluated by judges of the international level of Kazakhstan, Italy, Poland, Lithuania, Russia.
at a scientific and practical conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, akim of the East Kazakhstan region, deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - head of the secretariat, member of the constitutional council of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Malin, as well as scientists, heads of the judiciary, law enforcement and supervisory bodies, representatives of ethnocultural associations and the public.
we must be very attentive, but we must not exceed the boundaries politically. i would like to support the premise that we have to be correct , but not overly politically correct .
Last year, the winner was dugalova.
In 1942, the military unit 35748, created during the Great Patriotic War, gave direction to 35 commanders, 7 heroes of the Soviet Union and thousands of soldiers who were awarded the Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky II degree, the Order of Kutuzov III degree.
The current directions of standardization for the purposes of technical regulation within the EAEU are agricultural, quarrying, construction and road equipment, food products and agricultural raw materials, cars and tractors, requirements for electric vehicles, medical devices, medicines, construction materials and products, the chemical industry and other areas, the minister said.
35 liters of fuel per 100 km can fly up to 1200 km.
a positive solution was found during the meeting.
therefore, we must pay great attention to the protection of children and work carefully in this direction. "
geographically advantageous location of the region - the current special economic territory "Pavlodar," which has the opportunity to enter the border market of Russia, transit opportunities, the presence of significant natural resources and land plots for projects, developed industrial and transport infrastructure, cheap electricity, tax incentives.
according to our forecasts, the next 5-7 years we will live in other economic conditions.
the Kazakh side opened an embassy office in Belgrade, "the Serbian president said.
it is necessary to optimize only those stages of passing certain procedures, "he concluded.
Therefore, this translation is a symbol of our friendship, "said abdola ouahab abdola.
The speaker also noted that today young people got the opportunity to study at leading international universities.
in particular, the bills "On the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and on amendments and additions to the constitutional law on the judicial system and the status of judges were submitted to the committee on constitutional legislation, the judicial system and law enforcement agencies.
therefore, the book is rich in facts and facts, and it presents excerpts from the conversations of Nursultan Nazarbayev with the leaders of France, Germany, Russia, Kazakhstan, Italy, Switzerland, Belarus and, of course, Ukraine itself.
It is worth noting that the head of state outlined five priorities for the development and qualitative modernization of Kazakhstan, aimed at improving the reliability of investors.
chemistry, biology, computer science, mathematics. there are some topics in chemistry , physics , biology , computer science that are not taught in secondary schools .
The head of state noted the need to carefully monitor the processes taking place in the world and the region in order to prepare timely measures to prevent risks and threats to national security.
- Declaration of Intent on the Development of Space Cooperation between the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Space Research Centre of the French Republic;
According to him, the recycling industry as a whole will develop in this direction.
During the meeting, new initiatives of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration were discussed, as well as issues of further development within the framework of the Almaty process.
this system is planned to be created on the basis of the Kazakhstan Center for Interbank Settlements of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (the current operator of national payment systems).
It should be noted that large and small companies can participate in the competition.
this will be consistent with the needs of public servants, "he said.
They will take part in sports games in Los Angeles from July 21 to August 3, 2015 in athletics.
gold Chinese, silver Nigerians, top three Indonesians.
1362 road construction equipment and 3 thousand people will be involved in the modernization.
The real volume of products in the manufacturing industry grew by 6.0% compared to the level of January-October 2014 and in current prices amounted to 180.7 billion tenge.
- demonstration projects have shown efficiency for private owners to save money on electricity consumption.
The forum, together with the Government of Malaysia, was attended by prominent government officials, politicians, high-level and representatives of international financial institutions, corporate sector leaders, social activists and prominent experts from around the world.
In turn, ECB Director for Kazakhstan Jeanet Heckman noted that "today in Kazakhstan more than ten regions cooperate on projects that improve the life of the population."
sport educates us with determination, courage, patience, teaches us to be able to work in the same team.
Of the 13 participating countries, 5 have already been fully utilized.
when evaluating our life activities, we want our history, culture, traditions and Asian traditions to be outdated.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is also a look from the horizon of time, a reasonable and sincere view of the head of state on the nation of a united future.
there are about 100-150 rhinos. there are about 100-150 burials .
the facility is planned to be commissioned at the end of this year.
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree in 2012, one of the areas of which is the strengthening of citizens of one state.
Abdikalikova noted the successes of Kazakhstan in solving gender problems, ensuring equality of men and women in the socio-political, socio-economic and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
Shares of the joint-stock company kaznex invest allow the management company to take another step forward on the basis of trust regarding requests from business communities.
this suggests that there is a complete misunderstanding in this direction, that there are no relevant specialists, which led to such a situation, "the head of state said.
in addition, the deputy director of the Shanghai Academy of Social Studies Zhang Zhaoan attended the meeting.
we must learn to live in the price category from $30 to $50 per barrel, "said K. Maxim.
Every year preventive work is increased among adolescents prone to committing crimes by law enforcement and judicial authorities.
The head of Kazkosmos talgat Musabayev and the first Kazakh cosmonaut tokar of the aubakirs also made a speech.
The event was attended by representatives of the business elite, city hall, expert environment and famous public figures.
the participants of the meeting also considered the preparations for the meeting of the Ecu Foreign Ministers in Belgrade in December this year.
It will be attended by the chairman of the council of the association "bolashak" kuandyk bishimbayev, a member of the council of the association "future" dinar chajunusov and a member of the council of the association "future."
The British-Australian concern rio tinto is the world's second mining and metallurgical company in terms of market capitalization.
we purposefully conduct all activities.
Akhmetzhanov noted that all necessary conditions will be created for the participants.
According to him, after Kazakhstan joined the WTO, the trading platform for domestic entrepreneurs, especially for agricultural products, will be expanded.
Dear Kazakhstanis, I congratulate everyone on the common holiday - the day of the capital. dear astana residents , dear kazakhstanis , i congratulate all of you on our common holiday - the day of the capital .
And at the end of the meeting, the Minister of Justice answered questions from company representatives about the consequences of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, the agreement on free trade between the EAEU and Vietnam and the legalization of the drug and medical products market.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Social and Medical and Pedagogical Support for Children with Disabilities" provides for additions and changes in order to implement psychological and pedagogical coordination with children with disabilities, "said Irina Aronova, deputy of the Majilis of the parliament.
we are sure that we will come out of this difficult period with honor, "said the joyful man.
The implementation of the energy efficiency policy began with the instructions of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev as part of the industrialization program.
The bill is an arbitration to strengthen the legal norms of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on international commercial arbitration," "on arbitral tribunals" to ensure a unified approach to legal regulation.
Including 384.8 million tenge of subsidies are provided for the current year.
Of these, 682.2 million tenge of subsidies are provided for the current year.
Representatives of Astana Mayor's Office, heads of ethnocultural organizations, representatives of gardens took part in the charity event.
at the expense of the republican budget, the roads of "rehabilitation and video equipment" will be repaired by borrowing from the Asian bank, "the akim said.
correctness, the creation of a production hub, the provision of technologies and the production of goods here, "he added.
The district and city courts of the republic received 22,302 criminal cases, which is 0.3% less than in the first half of 2014. the district and municipal courts of the country have received 22,302 criminal cases , which is 0.3 % less than in the first half of 2014 .
Also, 30-35 thousand people watched this show.
Compliance of products with national and international standards is handled by registration authorities and testing laboratories.
It should be noted that the guard service is designed for reliable protection and protection of battle flags, weapons, military and other equipment, ammunition and other property for the protection of military and state facilities.
Members of the Government of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
we hope for this, "said Elena Tarasenko, deputy chairman of the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan.
Akmola, North Kazakhstan region, Almaty and Aktobe.
He wished the head of state success in the health and sustainable development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, strengthening cooperation and cooperation between our countries and peoples.
it is not necessary to perceive a person with all his nature, not to try to inculcate religion and politics, man, "said N. Nazarbayev.
we used such experience during the crisis of 2008-2009, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
these are district oncologists and mammologists from all regions of Kazakhstan, representatives of health departments of the regions and cities of the capital and Almaty, chief doctors and deputy chief doctors of oncological dispensaries.
The aurora production complex is a domestic plant for the production of disinfectants and antiseptics for the needs of medical organizations, communal institutions, and the food industry.
The President of Kazakhstan also wished Golovkin good health and success in conquering new sports heights.
including on the basis of the aviation technical center of the capital, it is planned to organize a service center of the regional center for the maintenance and repair of antons aircraft, the repair of white-made aircraft engines "motor sich."
Of particular interest to the capital of Kazakhstan are your exhibitions. for kazakhstani exhibition there is a particular interest .
we intend to continue to support the training of highly qualified specialists for the industry of your country, "said Shinzo abe.
diabetes rooms, pump schools, outpatient organizations.	so , if the number of patients i was more than 47 thousand people in 2013 , in 2014 the number became more than 51 thousand patients ,  - n. toktarova said .
According to him, the implementation of the law on youth should be the focus of attention of the government and local executive bodies, each deputy and the whole society.
including an increase in the volume of cargo traffic between the two countries, an increase in transit traffic through the common transport corridor, the transfer of a new north-south transport route to Iran through Turkmenistan and the development of the Asian-European corridor.
According to Deputy Governor of the region Sarah Nurkatova, from September 12 to 13 in the capital on the square in front of the monument "Қaza eli" will be held festive events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
In addition, according to the head of government, there are certain economic processes in Kazakhstan, of course, there are such processes in the world economy, and they affect our domestic support.
According to him, in the 1st quarter of 2015 the gross regional product amounted to 143.3 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is not looking at the number of reforms, but at the effectiveness and quality of implementation.
I am glad that we have the opportunity to discuss all these issues at a wide meeting, "said V. Putin.
students will be able to see the history of the space industry and images of astronauts, find out details about the Baikonur cosmodrome.
According to Aseman Duskozhanov, director of the semazov LLP, it was only thanks to the investment program of Kazagro holding that the plant established production and uninterrupted sales of products, and even during the crisis period the assembly process was not interrupted.
As you know, a memorandum was signed between the national commission and EXPO-2017 on disseminating knowledge about the green economy and attracting women.
The share of production in ccel, kgm and pki companies in the first six months of 2015 amounted to 2,015 thousand tons (83 thousand barrels per day), which is 3% less than in the same period of 2014, and according to production plans.
The head of Company Asia LLP, deputy of the regional maslikhat Asemkhan Doskuzhanov wished to create conditions for the preparation of future champions.
our goal is to get as close as possible to import, that is, to switch to the brand "made in Kazakhstan," said Igor Shatsky, director of East Kazakhstan region.
We hope that our collective efforts will be productive, "he said.
now we plan to create an industrial zone in the agro-industrial sector. we are now planning to create an industrial zone in agro-industrial sector .
To date, a plan of measures has been approved for the preparation of the republican stage of the national competition "Mereili Recesses" and information coverage.
according to the donor, he spends half a liter of blood plasma daily.
According to the expert, in the Kazakhstan market quality world-class products will be sold at low prices.
In addition, the company brought to the market a wide range of products.
The event was attended by more than 60 representatives of Armenia, agribusiness of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as competent authorities and scientific institutions in the field of motherhood.
he thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation to take part in such an important event at which the leaders of world religions gathered.
in addition, it will create a core that will unite our nation, "said N. Nazarbayev.
It should be noted that the documentary exhibition "550 years of the Kazakh Khanate" was attended by authoritative statesmen, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies, scientists, historians and archivists.
According to the head of state, in any other country in interstate relations it is necessary to eliminate the violent method that arises in political events.
he highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan, marked by historical decisions of the Nazarbayev.
dsu - accelerated competition. wto - is increase of the competition , new challenges , new risks , increase of opportunities for importers .
The bill is drafted by deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of RK. the draft law is developed by the deputies of the majilis in order to improve the current control system .
Within the framework of the forum, the Kazakh Foreign Minister held bilateral official meetings with the President of Nauru Baron Wak, Vice President of Micronesia Yosivo Palikkun George, Minister of Agriculture, Fish and Forestry of Vanuatu Christoph Emel, as well as the Secretary General of Pidf mena yauwoli.
we invite European institutions and companies - organizations in the field of alternative energy sources - to participate in the exhibition, and we think that today's event will give impetus to joint work in the coming years, "the minister said.
According to him, since last year, guaranteed prices for raw materials and dairy products for the manufacturing industry have been approved to stimulate the manufacturing industry under the Agrobusiness 2020 program.
The development of agriculture will achieve two main goals, the first is the diversification of the economy of Kazakhstan and the development of research centers and technologies in this area, the shire said.
it presents a variety of business support tools that: financing, support for startups, etc., "said M. Mukhanov.
According to this agreement, Kazakhstani companies will be able to carry out transportation between Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan.
According to him, taking into account the decrease in oil prices in world markets, the development of the region will be carried out in two directions: the implementation of the industrialization map and the support of production enterprises.
The meeting of the foreign ministers of the member states of the agreement, which was chaired by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia on this day, made it possible to discuss the state of cooperation on its scale, concrete steps to implement the decisions of the heads of state.
From the point of view of the structure, 40% of the packaging market in Kazakhstan are polymer packaging, 30% are paper and corrugated cardboard, the rest 30% are glass, metal containers and closures.
I think this is a great opportunity, and the platform organized by the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in order to include the heads of various communities and clergy will be organized in the states of the world, where we will agree on what we are doing. i think it 's a wonderful opportunity , created by the president of the republic of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev for the members of different communities and different religions .
in this context, it is worth focusing on the work of museums-mounds. this year we plan to build a visitor center on the territory of historical and cultural reserve-museum " tanbaly . "
The Minister of Defense proposed to consider the issue of training of military personnel at the National University of Defense of Kazakhstan.
this golf club is actually built in the steppe.
In Kazakhstan, most patients receive expensive inpatient treatment, "said First Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan salidat kairbekova
As the deputy noted, two bills are being considered in the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in architectural excellence, it is not inferior to such famous theaters of the world as the Royal Theater in Madrid, the large theater in Moscow, the metropolitan opera in New Ayorka.
As part of the retreat, senators visited the Astrakhan Broiler Poultry Farm LLP and the multidisciplinary Start LLC, where they got acquainted with the introduction of innovative technologies into production.
We need freedom-loving citizens and qualified specialists, "said the head of the department.
thus, we can produce foreign products from our markets - Danish, Belgian, etc.
In addition, the Secretary of State visited a blood center at a growing age, launched this year.
the report team is ready to count votes. the commission is ready to count the votes .
The event was attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Askar Musin, Deputy Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation Mohammed Naim Khan and representatives of state bodies, public organizations of Saudi Arabia, as well as representatives of the Saudi garden and diplomatic corps.
Very suitable for our weather, "said Doctor of Agricultural Sciences.
Holding a forum in the capital is important primarily to attract investment. the forum is important to attract investment .
Therefore, I urge our people to choose the path of mercy and charity in their religion and educate the younger generation in this direction, "the head of state said.
I consider it the main thing to educate young specialists. i believe that the most important thing is to bring young professionals .
deposits in the first half of the year increased by 2.3%.
in our opinion, according to foreign experts, the visit of the head of state to China is an important impulse in Kazakh-Chinese relations, "the expert noted.
Chairman of the Board of JSC "Kazakhstan Institute for Industry Development" of Aydin Kulseites will take part in the press conference.
we appreciate the collaboration with such a large conglomerate as citigroup. "
our holy lands were called great steppes, and we were called descendants of these great steppes. since ancient times , our sacred land was called the great steppe , and we are children of the great steppe .
- What additional measures can you offer against the penetration of needles into Transcaucasian and Central Asian countries?
Of course, we can name other areas: the labor market, mutual understanding in the labor market.
The main issues of the meeting were risk management and assessment in the field of public policy.
According to the document, free trade will be established between Kazakhstan and Serbia on the basis of national legislation and the world trade organization.
I think that's a good idea. i think it 's a very good idea .
I would like to highlight the extractive industry transparency initiative. i would like to say on the extractive industries transparency initiative .
its construction is planned for 2016-2017.
According to the Prime Minister, terrorists use the world network to plan and coordinate subversive ideology, hatred and violence, attract and train militants, exchange information, and criminal actions.
The event was attended by students, faculty, heads of large national companies, parents.
in the nomination "best consumer goods": with a diploma of the II degree of LLP "Kyzylorda Training Industrial Enterprise of the Kazakh Society of the Blind"; with a diploma of the III degree "heir."
Currently, the new index system is piloted in the capital and Petropavlovsk. the new system is being used in astana and petropavlovsk .
In general, one problem of exporting Kazakh products is the high cost of supplies, "said A. Arynov.
education, health care. they discussed a number of issues in the sphere of education and healthcare .
The III Forum of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan takes place in new economic conditions for the machine-building sector and the economy of the country as a whole. the peculiarity of the iii forum is the new economic conditions - membership in eaeu and the wto .
of these, 2063 participants received loans in the amount of 4.8 billion tenge, of which 1377 first opened their business, 911 received microcredit from returned funds.
budget execution amounted to 99.9%, in the course of legalization Almaty occupies a leading place in the republic.
6 medical outpatient clinics and feldsher-obstetric centers will be built in the Burabai, Tselinograd, arch, evaporation and Ishim districts.
today, when the whole world suffers from religious extremism and terrorism, the number of religious leaders calling to resist hatred should increase and be sufficient for everyone, "said the UN Secretary General.
implementation of these tools will have a multiplier effect in the management of construction projects, technical control and research, and the work of the certification center.
in particular, the parties exchanged views on cooperation in the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, on the regional integration of the countries of Central Asia and on the situation in Afghanistan and other countries of the region.
Kazakhstan is rich not only in oil, but also in other sources of energy. kazakhstan has not only oil reserves , but also other sources of energy .
We are grateful for your commitment to advancing our common mission in the field of peace, sustainable development and human rights, the message says.
The Director General of the Russian News Agency (itar-tass) expressed confidence that the inherent strength, determination and perseverance of Nursultan Nazarbayev will help overcome all obstacles to the development of the country.
One of the most important tasks of the school is the intensification of students' love for the Republic of Kazakhstan, the education of citizenship, patriotism and internationalism.
The agreement on behalf of Kazakhstan was signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, on behalf of the magate - the Director General of the organization Yukia Amano.
the investment policy directed to the head of state will be determined by the management council of the national fund and headed by the head of state, and the council will include speakers of parliament, prime minister and other heads of state, "he said.
commemorative book of Akmola region.
As Galkin noted, I am glad to work at the stadium "capital of the arena" for the Kazakh spectator.
During the visit, issues of participation of the French Republic in the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital were discussed, in particular, technical issues of placing the French pavilion, the timing of construction work, the start of work on the import of exhibits of the exhibition, and the conclusion of an agreement on participation.
Kazakhstan also did not develop much in the railway industry, as a result of the industrialization map, we not only provide ourselves with diesel locomotives and electric locomotives, but also export them to foreign markets, "the expert noted.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the role of the sharif in the systemic development of Pakistan.
these measures will give a new impetus to the development of fisheries, "said Deputy Governor of the region S. Tuyakbaev.
At the end, Nursultan Nazarbayev urged the participants of the meeting to take part in the development of mutually beneficial cooperation.
M. Myrzamadieva spoke about the progress of the current integration processes in the Eurasian space, programs of socio-economic and political development of Kazakhstan, and also spoke about the preparations for the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
the event made it possible to hold a multilateral discussion on the issue of mutual interest for both Kazakhstan and its neighbors in the region, as well as for the united states, including the development of transit and transport potential and increasing its level of integration into world economic ties.
By restoring competition, we will be able to save jobs at enterprises, "the President of Kazakhstan assured.
all schools are ready for the heating season.
One of the favorable conditions for doing business is the presence of a rich mineral resource base. a significant addition to the attractiveness of doing business is a rich mineral resources base .
respected community!
last year it was 76.9 points.
increasing the level of Kazakh content is one of the priority areas of Kazstroystroy.
we must share that experience.
Speaking about the prospects of next year, A. Arinov noted the need to increase financial support for manufacturers.
Kazakhstan plays a very constructive role in the face of challenges to the international community. kazakhstan plays a constructive role to the international community in the context of current challenges .
Our Kazakhstan is a great steppe country, which was the help of great deeds.
here it is necessary to strengthen propaganda work among the population. " abdibecs.
All roads implemented within the framework of the "Nұrly zhol" program must be executed in a quality and timely manner. "
Georgia and Kazakhstan, including the South Kazakhstan region, are known as agrarian regions. georgia and kazakhstan , including south-kazakhstan region are famous for agricultural industry .
As it is noted, during the meeting the invitation of the Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov to the constituent session of the General Assembly of the Islamic Organization for Food Security (atiu), which will be held in October this year in Astana, and to the 7th conference of ministers on food security and agricultural development was presented.
we discussed the prospects for further development, the current state of the CIS in our small environment. we have discussed in detail the current state and prospects of further development of the cis .
if he is a witness to domestic violence, he can also show other contemporaries, "he said.
During the meeting of the public commission, a high level of journalists' materials was noted, as well as the contribution of the press to the coverage of important socio-political and socio-economic aspects of the development of Kazakhstan.
Under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 4 two-story houses were built in the Forward area.
South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Almaty regions are defined as regions with the lowest incomes, where the size of the population's income is 28-40% lower than the average republican level.
Thus, the Akbulak enterprise received a loan of 2 billion tenge from this bank for the modernization of the city's water and sewerage system.
By joining this organization, Kazakhstan is completing its integration in the current economic order.
they meet peers from other countries, maintain friendly relations with future colleagues, study world experience, international training and training programs for military specialists.
Serbia is open to the development of good relations, especially in the economic sphere.
this opposition requires our side to take effective measures, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the capital has chosen many directions for itself.
following the meetings, the Secretary of State gave specific instructions to state bodies.
in the first half of the year, products totaling 312 billion tenge were produced, growth - 4.3%, including manufacturing - 222 billion tenge, growth - 12.3%.
During the meeting, the reports of the Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption a.specbayev, Vice Minister of Finance r.beketayev were heard.
commodity producers discussed the possibility of supplying their products to the construction site EXPO-2017.
Kazakh athletes will compete at the upcoming World Cup to take high places in the standings.
Since independence, bilateral relations between our countries have developed in a spirit of friendship and cooperation. since the independence the bilateral relations between our countries has developed in the spirit of friendship and good neighborliness .
in her congratulations, the lawyer and journalist thanked the head of state for her services to the benefit of Kazakhstan and the people of the country.
according to the plan, the activities of the government and the national bank will be aimed at supporting the real sector of the economy, stimulating the attraction of private investment, employment, creating new jobs, maintaining financial stability, effectively using the funds of the national fund, as well as ensuring a balanced national budget.
During the visit, R. Zhoshybayev met with the Deputy Prime Minister for Development of Vietnam, the Minister of Culture and Sports, Tourism of Hyun Vin Ayom, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Vietnam bu than shun and the heads of leading public organizations of the country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country reports.
the leaders of the ranking this year were the countries of northern Europe: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands.
According to the organizers, there are "falcones" on the embankment - zentite color devices that can change their color per kilometer.
The head of state noted that the accession of the republic to the WTO is important from the point of view of the implementation of the tasks set out in the Kazakhstan-2050 Long-Term Development Strategy, as well as the further development of foreign trade and the expansion of cooperation with foreign investors.
The Eurasian Economic Commission highly appreciates the possibilities of economic cooperation, which opens up great opportunities for the eurozone and China. eurasian economic commission appreciates the opportunities for economic cooperation , which are opened before the eaeu and china .
they are engaged in low-skilled work, which is why they lose confidence in social growth.
During the meeting, issues of environmental safety, measures taken in the field of environmental protection were discussed.
Also, the new law provides for norms aimed at preventing corruption in the private sector.
we are preparing for the holiday.
All fires were extinguished by the forces of voluntary fire brigades of the TZhD and the Ulytau district of the Karaganda region, "the report said.
In total, about 10 thousand sets of parts of the railway industry were mastered, including about 5 thousand sets of parts in Kazakhstan, "said M. Pshembayev.
we had 80 three-level schools, there were 100, the number of emergency schools was halved, out of 136 there were 66 left. thus , we have 80 three-shift schools , and there were about 100 , and the number of emergency schools will be reduced by almost half .
G. Abdykalikova informed the guests about the implementation of 5 institutional reforms proposed by the head of state, one direction of which is the formation of a modern, professional and independent state apparatus that ensures the high-quality implementation of economic programs and provides public services.
The meeting will be attended by Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan A.Sarinzhipov, Chairman of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development and Science of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan A.abidzhanov, head of the committee of the regional hub in the field of civil service, rectors of universities, heads of universities, leading domestic and foreign scientists.
that is, 15.9 million tenge was saved.
today, the holder of the Order of Honor, an honorary citizen of the village of Dossor and the Makat region.
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan to ensure regional security.
Correspondent of JSC "bnews.kz" Ayymgul abilova received an award in the nomination "Propaganda of the activities of kha and ethnocultural associations."
Kazakhstan's business offers great opportunities to establish interstate cooperation and increase exports.
On the part of France, the Ministry of Ecology and Sustainable Development of the French Republic was responsible for participating in the exhibition.
this will make it possible to effectively use and control the land fund of the region, "said A. Batalov.
today we use only a small fraction of the available potential. today , we use a small portion of the enormous potential that we have .
During the preparatory season, 71 power units and 72 boilers will be repaired.
VM prices will remain, despite the change in the tenge rate, "said A. Lukin.
ski resort "blue jailau" in Alma-Ata.
at this open book exhibition more than three thousand manuscripts, books and rare historical documents, "said A. Askarov.
According to A. Mamytbekov, work on reforming land relations will continue.
for every citizen, this is a very serious year, because the constitution is a passport of the state. for every citizen - it is a significant event .
At the end of the year, we were among 130 countries to attract foreign direct investment. following the results of 2015 we 've entered 130 countries in terms of attracted net foreign direct investment .
I think such a museum is needed. this museum , i think , is necessary .
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the meeting was attended by the First Deputy Chairman of the Kostanay regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan" a.s. Shaparova, Head of the Language Development Department of the Governor's Office of Kostanay region.
we are actively and effectively working, this commission includes deputy meetings and the Senate, which as part of the commission answer relevant questions, "said K. Mashimov.
Under today's agreement, we will have many opportunities for mechanical engineering, "said Young Aunt Park.
in addition, amendments will be made to the Environmental Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan for reducing air pollution, the law "On subsoil and subsoil use."
Note that the peculiarity of the competition is that it passes under the motto "the noise of mercy."
all of them are registered in the regulatory framework, today they are staffed by an agency.	evaluation results will form the basis for development plans for employees , which will get concrete recommendations to improve the competence ,  - he explained .
For this, it is important that young people engage in sports, culture, be spiritually rich.
the main activity of the integrator is the development, support and development of architecture.
in this regard, the question of the country's foreign policy initiatives and the role of the international community in mobilizing efforts to resolve various conflicts in the world was raised.
It should be noted that within the framework of the meeting, the implementation and expansion of the current production of the Mynaral cement plant in Zhambyl region - 2015-2016. construction of a cement terminal in Astana.
production capacity is 1 thousand shuttle turning devices and 75 thousand railway wheels.
the Kazakh government has long been a supporter of global actions against violent extremism, which are highly appreciated by the couple. the government of kazakhstan has become a strong partner of global efforts on countering violent extremism , and these efforts are highly appreciated by the united nations .
From 2010 to 2014, 260 thousand jobs were created as a result of the implementation of this program.
these are unique things, about they are made of parts of human love.
Our main goal is not to forget about the past of the people who reached the first place in history, to evaluate today's and confidently look to the future. our main task is not to forget the past of the people , coming from the depths of history , cherish the present , and with faith in our future .
Nevertheless, the EXPO budget is sufficient, now it is necessary to effectively manage it, "said the Minister of Commerce.
It is noted that such meetings are planned to be held in other regions of Kazakhstan.
Today, given the negative factors of the world economy, the government and the national bank are jointly developing a package of structural reforms to ensure long-term economic growth and employment. taking into account negative factors in the world economy , the government and the national bank are developing structural reforms to ensure long-term sustainable economic growth and employment .
if we work in a group of companies, then you need to understand the role of each employee.
the program was attended by 921 young families who scored more points, were sent to a housing construction savings bank "to check solvency."
in April alone, the volume of term and conditional deposits in Almaty decreased to 1.88 trillion tenge, reducing by 11.2 billion tenge.
we also issued an appropriate order, a feature of which is the merger of tax and customs risk management systems, and the conditions for conducting a verification of their validity agreed with the central apparatus.
Kazakh and American athletes are active participants of competitions in these countries.
Therefore, I decided to allocate $2 million for myself for research on the fight against cancer, "said the young programmer.
As M.Bozhko noted, at the end of August entrepreneurs gladly accepted the rate of tenge to free circulation.
All young entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan aged 18 to 29 years can take part in the competition.	according to him , the competition is open not only for graduates of  bolashak " program , but also for all 18 to 29 years old citizens of kazakhstan .
The President of Kazakhstan also heard a report on the company's work on expanding the production of titanium-magnesium products for the manufacture of machines and devices.
Today we are popular, we are an authoritative state that is actively developing.
During the meeting with the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Slovenian Republic, Primojn Heinz discussed the current issues of bilateral relations and the prospects for inter-parliamentary cooperation between Kazakhstan and Slovenia.
in particular, it was about the participation of Kazakhstan and Georgia in the project "Eurasian Transcontinental Corridor," which will allow unimpeded transportation of goods from Asia to Europe.
a tourist center was built in the Sandyktau district, five hotels for family holidays are being built, three tourist routes have been opened, one of which is equestrian sports.
this is due to the fact that not all collectors made such demands to court executors, "said S. clock.
imports from third countries are not regulated by order.
in general, more than a thousand people have been employed since the start of the program (470) in 2011.
It is worth noting that this method of artificial heart transplantation was introduced in June 2014, 32 operations were carried out by Kazakhstani specialists over the year, 8 of them for the purpose of research.
we are purposefully engaged in the supply of domestic goods to this market, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
we are athletes, and most of our time goes to training.
Kazakhstan has come to this goal for a very long time.
the draft Code of Civil Procedure was approved by the Majilis of Parliament in the second reading on May 6 of this year and sent for consideration to the category of Parliament with 430 amendments.
The exhibition will be held for the first time in Central Asia and the CIS, and, indeed, this event will give a powerful impetus to the development and use of alternative and renewable energy sources in this region, will allow you to demonstrate the best technologies in the world and will contribute to the promotion of energy-efficient programs - said the Commissioner of Expo 2017.
Last year, as part of a nationwide teleconference with the participation of the head of state N. Nazarbayev, the first stage of the Ural transformer plant was launched.
in general, in his opinion, the situation is not easy.
In a month, the school year will begin, and taking advantage of this opportunity, Kazakhstanis will be able to save the family budget, "the head of the Kazpost press service told Bairam Aziz.
The Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Alania (Turkey) noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev's efforts play a special role in the rapid development of the country's capital.
Aware of the historical and scientific and technical significance of the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan and Russia are working on its further development.
In addition, it is important to jointly prepare tank crews for the World Tank Biathlon Championship, which was held in June this year in Kazakhstan, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambets.
Next year, the XI forum of representatives of the creative and scientific intelligentsia of the CIS countries will be dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the CIS.
Zh. Tuimebayev noted that Kazakhstan, being a responsible member of the international community, has formed an open democratic society, a liberal economic system, has established close ties with many states of the world.
A. Daulbaev noted that this event has become historically important in expanding the Kazakh-British legal cooperation, uniting the forces of the two countries in the fight against crime.
The creation of the bank will save nuclear elimination and global nuclear security, "he said.
In turn, M. Tleuber expressed gratitude to the Holy See for supporting the development of historical science in Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Also for 2016, Kazakhstan Chemical Company LLP is focused on the production of polyolefin.
The Czech President also expressed hope that the upcoming events will create an opportunity for additional meetings to discuss the development of bilateral cooperation.
Since then, issues of protecting the rights of children in all our strategic documents have been implemented along the main line, "said the Vice Minister.
It is worth noting that the transition to trade in national currency by 2025-2030 is contained in the draft concept of the development of the payment system in the eurozone zone.
According to him, the kazenergy forum is aimed at creating a bridge for players in the global energy market.
1,231 thousand tons of oil and petroleum products (49 thousand barrels per day) were sold to the domestic market.
Also, the forum demonstrated potential opportunities for participants of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
there is an opinion that it is better to do this in a bilateral format between countries, then decisions will be made quickly. there is a point of view that it is better to do it bilaterally between the two countries .
In 1994, at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev proposed moving the capital of Kazakhstan from Alma-Ata to akmol.
meeting of the commission established under the national agency for technological development.
Since the beginning of the year, 7,842 tourists from South Korea have visited Almaty, which is 14.64% more than last year.
in particular, the situation center will be engaged in forecasting macroeconomic indicators, monitoring, analyzing and forecasting the progress of socio-economic development, assessing security and managing risks in the fields of economics, finance, demography, industry, information and others, analyzing the socio-political situation.
According to the results of this year, 399 students took part in international olympiads and scientific competitions, of which 238 were awarded medals.
this is very important for small towns and cities of regional importance.
The press conference will be devoted to the implementation of the national project "Big Country-Big Family" and the results of the historical and cultural expedition "Country of the Great Steppe."
According to them, combining prices, imports will not be cheaper than domestic products, will contribute to the adoption of a new economic policy.
Expert on Central Asia, political observer Kürshad praised the diplomatic victory of Kazakhstan, which managed to maintain its position during long negotiations.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in recent years national sport is revived - Kazakh wrestling as one of symbols of independence.
construction and installation work is currently underway there.
Following the meeting, K.Masim and Ts.Tsachev agreed on the further development of Kazakh-Bulgarian relations in all areas.
Of course, children can boast of their awards, but their main wealth is family, tradition, unity and harmony.
The agenda of the event included problems of migration tensions in Europe in the political and humanitarian spheres, transit states, as well as issues related to the formation of an effective asylum system in European countries.
we will increase gas production.
many skeptics say that this is very expensive, and we made sure that it is not, "said E. Tarasenko.
First of all, this will help students and students gain experience, "said a member of the Presidium of the NPP, chairman of the organizing committee of the sage Kazakhstan-2015 championship.
Kazakhstanis have high potential in this regard. this potential of the kazakh people is huge , this is the mentality of the kazakhs , the nomads of the eurasian nomads .
production capacities will allow bringing most of the ventilation equipment to the EXPO-2017 project, "said Radina Ashirova, commercial director of Almaty Ventilation Plant LLP.
these apartments were received by pupils of orphanages, war veterans and equals to them, public sector workers, state and military.
Representatives of Wool-jin LLP determined the place of construction of the factory and the directions in which products can be traded.
the Russian duo of wild guitars and the Bulgarian crisis of Todor divided the second place among themselves.
I hope that confidence in the bank, in tenge will be restored. i hope the bank to restore people 's trust to tenge .
We propose the Global Strategic Initiative 2045 plan.
Under the leadership of the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan, inspections of Almaty, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and South Kazakhstan regions are carried out with the involvement of regional defense units of local government bodies, the report said.
work has been carried out in this area.
Since the launch of the industrialization map projects, the amount of industrial production amounted to 241.5 billion tenge, as well as 41.6 billion tenge for 7 months of 2015, "the report said.
The meeting was attended by the Chairman of the District Council of Veterans of the Seitzhanov Sagnai, Governor of the Old Koluton Rural District Vladimir nettle, construction organizers, villagers and many guests of the village.
During his business trip, he plans to take part in celebrations dedicated to the International Day of Renunciation of Nuclear Weapons, which will be held on August 29 in Semipalatinsk.
This Kazakhstan has its own potential in this area, "he said.
this is Kazakhstan's launch project at the international level, producing domestic goods through leasing financing abroad.
in general, when we began to understand our social and economic level, we reached the level of active development.
by abandoning atomic weapons, Kazakhstan laid the foundations of new moral standards in international politics, announced a policy of peace and trust to the whole world, opened the way to stability and the influx of investments, "Y. Togzhanov said.
A memorandum was signed between the Governor's Office of the region and Astana Expo-2017 JSC aimed at attracting domestic producers to the construction of facilities of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017.
The Omsk minister expressed interest in intensifying bilateral relations, as well as in developing close cooperation between the two countries on the implementation of joint projects in the energy and other fields.
The Ambassador, who thanked Romania for supporting the country's international initiatives, congratulated Romania on its participation in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana.
But a year ago it was only about training phd doctors in the only specialty "business administration," now the educational institution has received a license in three more specialties.
The annual international "steppe eagle" peacekeeping exercise in the armed forces of Kazakhstan is an important event to increase the professionalism of Kazakh peacekeepers and strengthen relations with military personnel of other countries.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the great potential for further expansion of cooperation of our countries.
e-government combines the information system of public authorities online. electronic government integrates information systems of state bodies for online public services .
An anniversary summit is taking place in the capital, "the head of state said.
It is worth noting that ilac and iaf are engaged in certification of research laboratories and organs.
To solve the problem, our company took a loan for the purchase of refrigeration chambers and special equipment.
according to him, the second system is an open "look" platform, that is, here you can get a job of the lowest, middle type of high level, of course, through an open competition.
athletes not only from our region, but also from North Kazakhstan, Kostanay regions and the capital.
A large solar power plant "Buroe Solar-1" with a capacity of 50 megawatts in central Asia was launched in Zhambyl region.
According to the head of state, today, under conditions of independence, it is necessary to strengthen economic relations.
On this day, a bilateral meeting of the Kazakh delegation with the Minister of Defense of the PRC, Colonel General Chan Wanquan, took place.
in addition to traditional study rooms and herthans, there are offices for integration, technical modeling, nano- and biotechnology, robotics, individual work and psychological unloading.
corporate dog management is formed both by Western companies and the architecture of the enterprise. corporate it governance has started to line up on the principles of western companies ; enterprise architecture is as it should be .
As part of the visit, the heads of regions and cities will talk about how the comprehensive development plan of the city of Zhanaozen and the program for the development of single-industry towns are being implemented.
Contracts for further employment of graduates have been concluded with these enterprises, "said A. Taltenov.
It is noted that the implementation of this investment project will solve the problem of reducing the import of poultry meat into the country.
firstly, during the current year, it is necessary to switch to international standards for mass reporting of crisco on solid mineral reserves and to create the Kazakhstan national organization crisco. first of all , it is necessary to shift to an international system of accounting standard crisco ( establish national crisco ) , to develop and implement international standards .
The work in this direction is carried out by representatives of South Kazakhstan region.
During the meeting, the head of the region spoke about the state of socio-economic development of the region, development prospects and fundamental projects being implemented.
Given the experience of privatization in these years, the Government will cheers to ensure maximum efficiency and transparency of the process. given the experience of privatization in previous years , the government of kazakhstan intends to maximize the transparency and efficiency of the process .
This exhibition has a multifaceted structure.
Kazakhstan confidently became one of the fifty competitive countries of the world.
housing is under construction, which will be provided to the official participants of the exhibition. the company has started construction of housing for official expo exhibitors .
the Government is considering privatization.	oil refinery also can be included ,  s.mynbayev said .
During the visit it is planned to visit a number of social and economic facilities.
In general, agriculture should bring a lot of income, "S. Chakrabarti assured.
the new Kazakhstan unity will be formed on the basis of the principle of evolution. new kazakhstan 's identity will be based on the principles of evolutionary , it is a process of education of the new generation .
He noted that this initiative has a perspective, the international community also pays attention to this proposal.
on the other hand, the city cannot implement social and development programs without tax revenues.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the scale of the tasks and noted the need for their timely and high-quality implementation.
The head of state expressed confidence that the joint work will be fruitful and successful.
The national team of Kazakhstan took 11th place in the team event, having won 6 gold and 4 bronze medals.
it will be Kazakhstan's next contribution to strengthening the mass non-proliferation regime and nuclear security.
in turn, the Welsh leadership and business community noted the leading role of our country in central Asia, implementing important reforms and effective social and economic policies.
The conference will be attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbayev, Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, Secretary of the Committee on Defense, Security, International Relations, Head of the Geopolitics and Regional Studies Service of the Library of the First President of Kazakhstan Yerzhan Saltybayev.
All data is processed and calculated automatically.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
Kazakhstan has more than 400 companies with the participation of Ukrainian capital. kazakhstan has over 400 companies with the participation of the ukrainian capital .
I am sure that a new generation of artificial hearts will be created, which completely replaces heart transplantation, "said the cardiologist.
During the year, the academy holds international conferences, organizes expeditions, as well as publishes research papers, and develops a textbook on the history of the Turkic language as a whole.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also spoke about the planned creation of an international financial center in the capital and expressed interest in further strengthening partnerships.
Kazakhstan's contribution to the global stability of the nuclear non-proliferation initiative. kazakhstan 's initiative to strengthen the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is an absolute contribution to global stability , order and security .
we are working on new technologies that ensure the security of trade and people's actions.
The First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan invited Chinese companies to take an active part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, and also proposed to make a practical addition to the initiative of Kazakhstan to open the pavilion of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu) within the framework of the exhibition.
family is an important issue in the life of any citizen.
In addition, as part of the event, the head of the region awarded the winners of the Patriots of the Year.
During the month, they held classes at the training ground with personnel on tactical, fire, combat and physical training, morning informatization.
Leaders of Czech companies expressed interest in establishing partnership relations with Kazakhstan business and production.
clusters are a common part of the strategy of integration of international tourism, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
According to him, in 5 years the number of Kazakhs engaged in wrestling, increased by 5 times.
As part of this event, kaznex invest JSC and sonalika group signed a memorandum of understanding.
Before hosting from June 24 to June 30 of this year in New York, Boston, Los Angeles and London, a roadshow of a team of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, National Economy and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held.
I think that the acceleration program will create new high-quality teams and create a large startup movement in Kazakhstan, "said Zhumataev Salimov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC National Agency for Technological Development.
however, he could not accurately name the timing of sales.
The honor of our country in this competition is represented by famous athletes of the central sports club of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Governor of North Kazakhstan region instructed to intensify the pace of construction.
The Hungarian Prime Minister noted that the implementation of strategic development programs launched in Kazakhstan is an example.
The purpose of this event is to delineate and develop relations between Kazakhstan and Italy to equestrian sports, "said Italian Ambassador to Kazakhstan Stefano Ravagnan.
I congratulate everyone on the Constitution Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I wish you all the best! "- said K. mom.
During the talks, the Chinese side welcomed Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization and noted the importance of this event in improving bilateral relations.
As part of the instructions of the head of state, all projects should be aimed at high-tech products. all the projects should lead to high-tech industries and export .
the agency is based on the fact that the Baiterek holding retains its special status as a national management holding company.
The Turkish President also expressed confidence that the development of cooperation between the two countries will continue and thereby make an important contribution to strengthening peace, stability and unity in the Eurasian space.
This year the Constitution of Kazakhstan marks the 20th anniversary. this year marks the 20th anniversary of the constitution of kazakhstan .
According to the press service of the party, the parties exchanged experience in supporting business initiatives at the state level and partnership of business incubators between Kazakhstan and China.
the strategy focuses on combating separatism, terrorism and extremism.
this is an international festival of instrumental genre and private performers for bands, vocals, choreography, far and near abroad and Kazakhstan.
over the past heating period (2014-2015), money will be returned to consumers, since in the conditions of a "warm" winter, heat consumption was significantly less than the forecast (estimated) losses.
the Japanese side plans to conduct this case in two directions. the japanese side plans to hold the exhibition in two directions .
The Ministry of the Interior has sent investment proposals to the Ministry of National Economy for the construction of correctional facilities in these areas.
c. For the warm meeting of the minister and friendly relations with Kazakhstan.
At the same time, he noted that the introduction of a new economic policy by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan has greatly helped miners and metallurgists.
In the first half of 2015, the center received 142 thousand appeals from citizens.
according to the results of which the strongest, the most resilient and the most educated servicemen representing Kazakhstan and our army at the international competition were determined.
Also on this day, the head of the region met with the leaders of large agricultural structures of the region, examined the "final" whites and "acmola phoenix."
therefore, reducing investments should contribute to cheaper value of goods, "said Trade Minister Andrei Slepnev.
The festival program includes a variety of events covering all categories of the population.
The Olympics were held with the support of the International University of Information Technology. the olympiad is organized with the assistance of the international university of information technologies ( iitu ) .
we set ourselves such tasks as the propaganda of ethnic music, "said Iskakov, the main organizer of the visit, at a press conference in the capital.
five units of special equipment, road signs for road work will also be purchased.
cyclists reached the construction site on the Yekaterinburg-Capital highway along with a delegation of cyclists who met them.
this commercialization process will allow to apply a systematic and integrated method of development of quality technologies in Kazakhstan.
It is also worth noting corruption in the private and quasi-public sectors, "said Svetlana Bochkova, a member of the Nұr Otan party faction.
President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev, head of Afghanistan, President of Kyrgyzstan a.aatambayev, head of Mongolia ts.elbegdorzh, President of Russia Vladimir Putin, head of Tajikistan e.rahmon, President of Uzbekistan i.karimov, President of China Xi jinping, Prime Minister of India - N. Modi, Head of Pakistan, N. Sharif, as well as the Secretary General of the Shu D.Mezeni, Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs J.-Feltman, Secretary General of Asean le Löng Min, Director of the Executive Committee of the Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure Shu Chinfen.
joint training of competitive specialists in the framework of a memorandum with students, undergraduates, phd doctors; conducting practical practice, online lectures, participating in joint events, developing joint scientific and educational programs, etc., the report said.
In addition, the main task of kha and its structures is the implementation of the project "big state - big family."
they were joined by schools and other social facilities in the aksu, kerbulak and Uighur regions.
we have long been in the international space (in international markets), now it remains only to legalize this process. we have long entered the international markets , now we need just legitimize the process .
Credentials to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan: Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea to Kazakhstan Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to Kazakhstan Ahmed Idris inab, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Palestinian Republic to Kazakhstan Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Spanish Kingdom to Kazakhstan presented pedro josé sans serrano.
in the future, this experience will be applied on subsidized trains next year, "said the director.
During the meeting issues of replacement of some players of the international federation of judo and others will be considered.
Note that the charity race was held as part of the first republican contest "Military Dynasty."
23.6 million tenge was spent on the construction of the facility.
State support is also provided annually in the form of subsidies to support seed production.
our court can conduct market research, is an example of a British commercial court, "he said.
It is important to be able to assemble not only the service centers of our aircraft, but also the Antonov aircraft of our release, "he said.
the document provides for the transportation of goods along routes agreed between Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan on the basis of a sleeve system.
After 20 years, the sowing company will begin in the Uzunkol, Mendykarinsky, Fedorov, Karabakh, Sarykol regions, "the Governor of the region noted.
currently has the status of a dialogue partner - observers from Afghanistan, Belarus, India, Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan, Turkey and Sri Lanka.
In 2015, more than 150 applications were received from all regions of Kazakhstan.
The national political body consists of representatives of different nationalities.
In 2015, Kazakhstan celebrates the 20th anniversary of the main law - the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Russia S. Akhmetov drew attention to the fact that Nursultan Nazarbayev devoted his life to the socio-economic development and prosperity of Kazakhstan, to improving the well-being of its citizens.
there is no such developed city in the world as the same capital.
no government, no organization will be able to fight it alone, "Mr. Kerlikovsky said.
The congratulation of Prince Albert of Monaco speaks of the importance of further strengthening ties between the two countries.
In addition, singers of the central military ensemble of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan will organize a concert program for guests and residents of the capital.
Kazakhstan is aimed at rapprochement with international standards and is even close to the activities of edue committees, including the investment committee. kazakhstan is aimed to approach to international standards and the committees of the oecd , including the investment committee .
there was also a conversation about the possibilities of the region in the development of agriculture, tourism, logistics.
According to him, he often criticizes the whiid program, but this document develops the part that allows the country to develop in the economy at the time of aggravation of the world situation.
In the city of Plzen, the capital of European culture-2015, a meeting was held with the gateman of the Plzen zone Wenceslas Schlais, during which the parties discussed issues of cultural and humanitarian cooperation and Czech relations with Turkish countries.
As part of the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan," we have achieved significant success in reducing the incidence of tuberculosis.
our goal is to develop the agricultural production necessary for a highly efficient processing sector focused on promising exports. our main goal - the development of agricultural production for high-performance and long-term export-oriented manufacturing sector .
we share zones, hold various events, each of those gathered will publish their works. " Temirgaliev.
During the meeting, he reported to the head of state on the current activities of the Academy, achievements achieved and plans for the upcoming period.
At the end of the meeting, the Secretary of State noted the high level of bilateral relations, and also expressed confidence in maintaining a systemic and positive pace of interaction in the foreign policy, socio-economic and cultural-humanitarian spheres.
Kazakhstan is discussing expanding the responsibility of all producers, but a special norm will be developed to create a recycling infrastructure. extended producers responsibility is discussed in kazakhstan , but with the creation of infrastructure of utilization mandatory standards will be introduced .
mobile government will allow Kazakhstanis to access public services by mobile phone.
Recall that such a recreation area was recently created in the Zhetysu-3 microdistrict.
In order to fully study the situation in the youth environment, a research center "Youth" has been opened, and a national report "Youth of Kazakhstan" is published annually.
The construction of access roads will be carried out by Energoremservice-int LLP.
The Head of State noted the potential for further strengthening and expansion of Kazakh-Indian cooperation.
Questions of the gathered representatives of four countries unfolded in the capital within the framework of the VI International Military-Scientific Conference "Development of the military-industrial complex and technical equipment of the troops of the armed forces and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan," which will be held from August 25 to 26 this year.
According to him, the objects of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development gave impetus to the development of the regions.
One of these events, together with the prosecutor's office of the Yesilsky district and the State University "Yesilsky District Youth Resource Center" debt repayment! " held an action.
at present, it is important to pay special attention to the establishment of actual ties between the Kazakh and Azerbaijani fleets. it is important to pay attention to the practical establishment of contacts between the navies of kazakhstan and azerbaijan .
the role of business has recently increased.
non-governmental organizations, voluntary associations, organizations of persons with disabilities, individuals, other institutions and agencies whose activities are aimed at developing the social protection system.
In the regional center, in the second five-year plan, 6 investment projects are being implemented, within the framework of which 4 thousand jobs will be created.
this law is under consideration by the meeting, provides for an increase in the legal status of the business ombudsman. this law offers the increase of the legal status of the business ombudsman .
among them, beekeeping, poultry farming, etc.
these courts regulate civil law relations, "said A. Solovieva.
"We hope that our close ties will contribute to linking China and Europe," added Vladimir Putin, Minister for Customs Cooperation of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
funds in this fund will be used for compensation.	moreover , they have also experience this .	1,04
Experts of the two countries considered the draft Roadmap for cooperation in the field of the defense industry for 2016-2018.	there , the experts of the two countries reviewed the draft roadmap of cooperation in the military and industrial sector for 2016-2018 .	1,04
Kazakhstan is one of the first among the CIS countries in terms of investment attractiveness.	our investment attractiveness is one of the best among the cis countries .	1,04
b. about the main indicators of the socio-economic development of the city, the implementation of investment and infrastructure programs.	b.baibek reported on the indicators of socio-economic development , the implementation of investment and infrastructure projects .	1,04
therefore, it is very important to make civil servants professional and personal.	therefore , an important task is to make a professional body of civil servants and self-contained .	1,04
It is expected that during the exhibition more than 20 memoranda will be adopted between the joint-stock company "National Agency for the Development of Local Content" nadloc "and domestic producers on a uniform logo, product labeling and other issues.
In addition, in addition to competitions, there are many interesting events, competitions, excursions and meetings in the rally program.
we consider for ourselves the central Asian market, including your republic.
ten teams from Belarus, China, Russia, Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan will demonstrate their shooting skills, medical training, orientation on the ground and much more within five days.
Today we export finished products to the Russian Federation, Denmark and Germany, "explained the director of the Amanbay Erhat company.
The President of Kazakhstan also proposed to close all nuclear test sites when they were part of the Soviet system, these opinions were unanimously supported by the population. even being a part of the soviet system , the president of kazakhstan made a decision to close all nuclear test sites and these two solutions were supported by the citizens .
each of us has such a story, and we should be proud of it. "
- I sincerely congratulate those who receive diploma today, - N. Nazarbayev said.
A new criminal code, criminal procedure code and penal enforcement code have been adopted.
The President of Kazakhstan was informed about the preparation of a.ambeta. to flights to the international space station according to the standard mode.
the family created an "apple" farm and was among the best.
to carry out spring harvesting and sowing works, farmers were given loans worth 6.5 billion tenge.
Governor of the region of izmukhambetov, Vice Speaker of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kairat Ishanov, Mayor of Atyrau Nurlybek Ozhaev, heads of factories, representatives of RBC Bank and potential buyers of products.
Secretary of State at a meeting at the Spanish Ministry of Development. Gomez-pomar stressed that the EXPO-2017 exhibition held in the capital should give impetus to the Kazakh-Spanish strategic partnership.
today we are developing a map of domestic gas supply to Kazakhstan, "said D. Berlibayev.
the initiative of the volunteers themselves is to celebrate their favorite cities together, "he said.
in general, nұrly sting. "
in Zhambyl region the value was 85.2 thousand tenge, which is 31.4% lower than the national average.
Kazakhstan has great respect for your country.
Up to 29 young entrepreneurs who want to implement their projects in the capital can take part in the program.
During the meeting, B. Baibek reported on the work on the socio-economic development of the city.
During this time, water supply networks were built in 26 settlements, in some of them major repairs were carried out, in 11 - reconstruction, "the report said.
including: firing from service jackm-2, t-72 and ak-74 at a long distance as part of a single and platoon, throwing hand grenades, overcoming the rear obstacle lane, conducting a combat vehicle as part of a platoon, pulling to the belt, lifting the entrance jerk 24 kg, running 5 km.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of developing auxiliary services, such as zooveterinaria, transportation and storage of agricultural products.
According to B. Kaipova, this is an increase in the responsibility of the region, the head of state is moving to solve the problem of the global level.
37.3 billion tenge (2014 - 94.3 billion tenge, 2013 - 102.9 billion tenge, 2012 - 57.6 billion tenge).
these were deep pits where raw materials and products could be stored. they were very deep holes , raw materials and products can be stored there .
Transport, infrastructure projects within the framework of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" in Mangistau region through the increase of transit potential of the country will lead to a powerful competitive economy of Kazakhstan.
- Head of State "on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of Monaco on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters";
The heads of state regularly meet with Nursultan Nazarbayev and Almazbek Atambayev, set large-scale tasks for the governments and parliaments of the two countries to strengthen fraternal ties and mutually beneficial cooperation, "he said.
During the meeting, R.Zhoshybayev discussed the theme of the exhibition and the development of the "green" economy.
Today, our participation is not only in our will, it is evidence of 4 previous congresses initiated by the high-ranking President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, "- said K.
this simplifies the procedures for awarding benefits. it will simplify the procedure of registration benefits .
a centre-south project is currently being implemented.
anniversary family. "
Issues of construction industry of the region were discussed at the hardware meeting in Akmola region.
In general, during the meeting, Kazakhstan's relations with international organizations, the policy was highly appreciated by the opposite side.
Also during the event, the first deputy chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" Askar Myrzakhmetov by the decision of the bureau of the political council of the party awarded the mayor of the city with a badge "for active activity."
at a meeting of the Caraptime expert group, director of the Nұr Otan Party Institute for Public Policy, director of the Alternative Center for Topical Research, political scientist Andrei Chebotarev, vice president of the Abay-inform public fund aidos sarym, director of the center for macroeconomic research of olzhas kudaibergens, president of the Strategy public fund gulmira eleuova, candidate of political sciences and erlans.
the solemn event ended with the ceremony of raising the flag and performing the joint anthem of the national security agencies.
He also noted that it was decided to approve the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexander Yuryevich Mikhnevich as the national coordinator for preparing the Belarusian side for participation in the expo 2017.
a foundation of nomadic civilization is being formed in Azerbaijan. azerbaijan is going to form the nomadic civilization center .
These are the main factors that make our goods necessary, "said the deputy akim of the region at the opening of the Duisengaza sculpture competition.
In addition, construction works were carried out in the region for 130.2 billion tenge, which is 36.6% more than last year.
In total, from 2015 to 2017, together with small financial institutions, 10 projects on heat supply, water supply and sanitation in the amount of $460 million will be implemented. only in 2015-2017 , 10 projects totaling 464 million dollars in heating , water supply and sanitation will be implemented .
I must appreciate your vision and initiative to convene this congress, which is now very important. i would like to pay tribute to your vision and initiative in convening this congress , which is important at this time .
in general, the desire to accede to any international agreements is correct, since they place high demands on the country. in general , any process of accession to international agreements is positive , as it lays the high responsibility on the country .
on the basis of state symbols, we should strengthen the love of Kazakhstanis for their homeland, feelings of pride of the country's inhabitants, promote the achievements and values ​ ​ of Kazakhstan, explain the policy of the head of state to ensure stability and harmony in society, improve the well-being of the population, "said the Malibekov gendarbek.
also discussed the prospects for the development of a number of industrial projects, which will lead to the creation of new jobs.
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
the total amount allocated from the national fund amounted to 329.3 million tenge.
Recall that in the Plan of the Nation - the reform of "ensuring the rule of law," the President of Kazakhstan noted the need to strengthen the requirements for the selection of candidates for the chairmanship of the court.
we are responsible for the interest of children because they must be brought up in the family, "he said.
The Chairman noted that the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev in the strategic development plan "Kazakhstan-2050" outlined the main directions for improving the tax policy.
In addition, this year in Sko, as part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, the construction of two schools began, one is being built in the village of Novoishimka, Musrepovsky district, the second in the Tayynshinsky district.
Today we export our products to Russia, in the future we plan to export to eastern Europe, "he said.
In addition, we plan to unite in such documents of the countries of south-east Asia.
since this is a general Kazakhstan business, they should also participate in the exhibition.
rio tinto thanks all the groups of the ministry for their support in the implementation of this project, "said Teinton.
Such events include the organization of congresses of leaders of world and traditional religions in the capital.
the eldest son Rustem was recognized as the whole Kazakhstani, he became a finalist of the x-factor contest.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that due to the instability of prices in world commodity markets, Kazakhstan is implementing an industrialization policy, thanks to which hundreds of new enterprises have been built in recent years.
we are studying international experience, according to the data, no WTO member state has abandoned its producers.
in addition, the list of documents necessary for the conclusion of the agreement is reduced.
now, in accordance with weather conditions, a subsidy time is provided. now taking into account weather conditions , they make up subsidies terms .
For three weeks, garrison sergeants with growth undergo tactical, fire, physical, combat, engineering, technical and topographic training.
As you know, Kazakhstan is rich in mineral resources, but we intend to change the structure of the economy in order to get rid of raw materials dependence.
The number of small and medium-sized businesses amounted to 46.5 thousand units, the growth compared to the same period last year amounted to 8.4%, "he said.
our states find similarities in many areas. our countries have similar views on many important issues of global and regional policy .
Kazakhstan is the first country in the world to begin to create such a homeland.
the Eurasian project is not only an economy, but also a humanitarian sphere. the eurasian project is not only the economy , but also the humanitarian sphere .
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan expressed interest in the visit of Vladimir Putin.
large production enterprises of the country are concentrated in East Kazakhstan region. there are many industrial enterprises in east kazakhstan region .
As the head of the National Bank noted, today people expect the dollar to strengthen against the global currency sector.
Deputy Secretary General for overthrow emphasized the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to create an Islamic organization for food security (akiu).
our crews fly through the Caspian Sea, Balkash Lake and other Kazakh reservoirs. our crews fly over the caspian sea , the lake balkhash and other kazakhstan 's ponds .
in the country as a whole, out of 1 million 200 thousand taxpayers, 1200, that is, 1%, will not reach.
In the near future, a new plant for the production of meat and sausage products "Bijan" will be launched in the city.
According to the results of the work, out of 6519 citizens who applied, 3959 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 1515 people received applications for changing their details, 1,045 villagers filed documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
in addition, on the topic of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the UN, the issue of creating a Kazaida agency that contributes to solving socio-economic, humanitarian and other issues related to Central Asia and Afghanistan, as well as contributing to reducing migration flows and immigrants was discussed.
According to him, kha plays the role of a mediator in resolving inter-ethnic differences.
in addition, the States of Pakistan, Mongolia, India, Iran and Afghanistan are observers of the organization.
The cultural center presents exhibits of the life, traditions and culture of Kazakhstan, art and photographs about the country, books on Kazakh-Turkish relations translated into Turkish, the report said.
Because the support of our enterprises that form the system will be a great support in business, it is easier to develop with state support, "said V. Likhtey.
In turn, the Ambassador focused on issues of peace and security, noting Kazakhstan's contribution to solving interregional and global problems.
During the action, 4440 food samples were seized and investigated. in the period of the campaigns 4440 food samples were selected and examined , of which 166 samples or 3.7 % did not meet .
The head of state noted that in all his trips from China, London, Paris, he took part in business forums, meetings with business captains, personal meetings with major businessmen in the world.
society really expects good results from the introduction of uniform judicial practice, "said A. Sassimov.
In addition, 3.3 billion tenge was allocated from the state budget for the implementation of 9 projects on the water supply and sanitation system under the program "Development of Regions up to 202."
As Polish representatives grow, cooperation and implementation of joint projects is envisaged under the chairmanship of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Poland Erik Utembayev.
this is a subsidiary of Samruk-kazyna JSC, designed to establish a petrochemical cluster.
As noted by Samusavi, this effective conference made efforts to spread, promote culture, demonstrated the formation of human balance and trust, all people belong to the same family.
There is no need to hide anything, and, in joy, it is better to share our suffering and find a common solution, "said Oleg Silaev.
Mayor of Almaty visited a new medical institution, got acquainted with its equipment, examined radiological, fluorographic, ultrasound, endoscopic rooms and a diagnostic laboratory.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also discussed the main causes of modern conflicts.
As Mustafin stressed, this is one of the best indicators of improvement of the capital of Kazakhstan.
high labor productivity, "the deputy explained.
The Korean President's visit to Kazakhstan took place in June 2014, when an agreement was signed between the two countries to extend the visa-free regime to 30 days, which entered into force on November 29, 2014.
According to the results of 5 months of 2015, 104 people will be employed and another 340 people with disabilities will be employed.
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the Days of Kazakhstan, the rector of the University "Giresun" noted that Kazakhstan has begun implementing a large-scale program for the development of an effective state.
According to T.Mabra, the Ministry of Energy of Jordan will present its scientific innovations at EXPO-2017.
I think that this will give a great impetus to the development of the economies of the two countries.
R. Zhoshybayev gave an interview to the Qatari edition of al-Sharq.
Therefore, residents should remember the fulfillment of the order of the head of state to enter the top ten capitals of the world, "he said.
Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov will take part in the event.
According to experts, as the head of the CSI noted, the proposals proposed by the head of Kazakhstan are of strategic importance.
Within the framework of the forum, master classes will be held under the leadership of professors of Smolensk and St. Petersburg (Russian) cities.
The film was shot last November for presentation at the general assembly of the international exhibition bureau.	the film was produced for presentation at the general assembly of the international exhibitions bureau in november last year .	1,05
29 objects and securities worth KZT712.0 mln were legalized.	the cost - 712.0 million tenge .	1,05
According to the Minister of Energy, Kazakhstan constantly supports the initiative of the world community to counter nuclear terrorism.	the energy minister has said kazakhstan fully supports the efforts of the international community to combat nuclear terrorism .	1,05
the deep historical roots of friendship and mutual understanding among our countries.	our countries have close ties of friendship and mutual respect .	1,05
The Commission has developed a project consisting of 8 areas of cooperation.
the proportion of curricula aimed at teaching the State language should be in line with State standards. the state language training programs should be brought into compliance with state standards .
of which 3403 are bachelor's degrees in various specialties, 1102 are masters and 68 are doctors.
in history, Kazakh women were distinguished by courage, perseverance. for centuries , kazakh women differed innate kindness , keen natural intelligence , subtle diplomacy .
The President of Kazakhstan instructed the government to coordinate all issues at the proper level and constantly report on the work being carried out.
in addition, it is proposed to introduce a number of explanations in this area into the law "On Communications."
you made a great contribution to the formation and development of Kazakhstan, your authority among the people, "said Chang Wanquan.
processing of agricultural products, increasing its added value, "the head of state said.
Participants of the scientific and practical conference "Constitution: unity of the people, stability, prosperity" were invited to the solemn event.
we cooperate together in the Eurasian Economic Union, in the bilateral context our countries successfully implement projects in the economic, scientific and humanitarian spheres.
During the event, a video film about Kazakhstan was shown, an exhibition on Kazakh-Turkish relations was organized and Kazakh creative organizations performed.
Nursultan Nazarbayev took turns meeting with the leaders of Germany, Ukraine and Russia to discuss the possibility of organizing a joint meeting in Minsk.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusipov introduced the guests to the rich history, culture of the Kazakh people and the implementation of the Kazakh Library project.
Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor ulan alipov spoke at the session of corridors for joint development.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on topical issues of further building up the strategic partnership of Kazakh and Russian prosecutors in the context of a single economic space.
staffed construction teams will participate in the construction of clinics, hospitals, apartment buildings under construction as part of the Nұrly zhol program.
in this regard, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of developing agricultural cooperatives in the country using world experience, as well as amending national legislation.
The conditions for business development in the free economic zone "capital-new city" were also affected.
in addition, it was instructed to take measures to equip and train employees of security organizations involved in the maintenance of construction facilities expo and universiade.
A collection of business cases is published in Kazakh, Russian and English. the collection of business cases will be published for a study of the mechanisms of business in kazakh , russian and english .
The Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhipov and the Minister of Health and Social Programs of Tamara Duissenov will also take part in the press conference.
According to him, this meeting meets modern requirements, covers all the tests taking place in the world and is aimed at solving problems.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 8974 citizens who applied, 5496 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 1866 people received applications for changing their details, 1,612 villagers filed documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
The importance of mutual cooperation between countries in the field of risk reduction and disaster facilitation was noted, including through the implementation of the initiative to create a regional hub for humanitarian assistance and sustainable development in Almaty.
for the Ministry of Industry and Development - this is industry, each region should have its own energy saving plan, so the akims should be responsible for their budget institutions and housing and communal services. for the ministry of investment and development of kazakhstan - it is the industry , each region of the country has a plan for energy efficiency , so the governors should take responsibility for their budgetary institutions and the housing sector .
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev delivered a welcoming speech to the participants and guests of the event.
we plan to cooperate with gardens in this direction, since open data gives them a great opportunity, "Ruslan Engsebayev, chairman of the board of National Information Technologies JSC, told the astex conference.
As the expert noted, the experience of Japan, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore proved that the state should take on progress in innovation.
losses they incurred in domestic and foreign markets.
Ukrainian shared the third prize for the song "Tverdostup" (anitt) and Georgian sophie.
I am sure that we are successfully implementing the programs planned by the President of Kazakhstan, "S. Pogodin assured.
the need to adopt a final declaration at the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. the fifth congress of world and traditional religions forthcome to adopt a final declaration .
y. according to baum, "fell in love with the capital at first sight."
About 150 boxers from Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Tajikistan and China took part in the tournament.
Following the meeting, ways of joint work with white companies "maximum" and "kazagrofinance" on the implementation of potential projects in the field of dairy farming were discussed.
the global financial crisis is driving the process of integration and regionalization in the world. the global financial crisis has become a significant catalyst for the process of integration and regionalization in the world .
According to its results, the problem of Kazakh civic identity arises, "said Zh.Zhunusova.
The head of the region noted that today the state creates all the conditions for the study and development of languages ​ ​ of all ethnic groups of the country.
cooperation with the Chinese Foundation for Art and Culture.
During the event, a meeting was also held with representatives of state bodies of the Kyrgyz Republic on registration of Kazakh goods and participation of Kazakhstani companies in public procurement of Kyrgyzstan.
my family - my wealth - is the life slogan of the father of Kulsariev.
we only opened 6 of them.
the liberalization of financial services would be accompanied by the establishment of an international financial centre, the capital.
the road "Western China-Western Europe," stretching for 3 km, runs along the "friendship."
This proposal was made by the deputy of the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security Victor Rogalev.
you are now preparing for EXPO 2017, we can share our experience and knowledge with you, "he concluded.
290 tons of environmentally friendly and high-quality products from 16 districts of Almaty region and taldykorgan, kapshagai, tekeli cities will be brought to the fair.
t. nikolic highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan, "indicated by the historical decisions of the President of Kazakhstan, who came to the leadership of the country in a fateful period."
I am honored to receive an honorary degree today. i am honored today to receive an honorary degree of your university .
As the head of state noted, in all cases it is important to timely fulfill social obligations in the country.
this means the continuity of the military traditions of the winners of the Great Patriotic War and the current generation of our homeland.
According to the organizers, the project is especially useful for beginners, since it does not need to spend money primarily on the necessary equipment, tools and furniture.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the governor of the state a. During the meeting, views were exchanged on the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation, establishing ties between entrepreneurs of the state of Santa Fe and the regions of Kazakhstan.
today there are no abbreviations in these companies, "said Mr. Karabalin.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the work of state bodies on socio-economic development, as well as the implementation of strategic tasks of five institutional reforms and the Nұrly zhol program should be based on a comprehensive analysis of the situation within the country and in the world.
lectures were held as part of groups on fire, special and technical training, bras were involved, as well as aviation - aircraft and helicopters.
In 2015, it is planned to send 223 graduates to youth practice; to date, 147 graduates have been sent.
the popularity of ego is growing every day.
Recall, on July 27, the President of Kazakhstan signed a protocol on accession to the WTO. Nazarbayev signed in the Geneva city.
Note that dairy products grew by 4.5%, milk - by 0.8%, eggs - by 2.1%.
It is worth noting that the annual international festival of circus art "echo of Asia" will last from July 1 to 8.
And the kana created in Kazakhstan will allow the whole people to bear, "the expert noted.
the company became the winner of the contest "People's Mark."
in particular, he examined the construction site of the Kazakh Khanate monument and the improvement of the adjacent territory.
All winners were awarded diplomas and gifts.
we need to find a way to no longer interfere with business, "he said.
according to our calculations, the main program is the domestic market.
we work in the port of lianyungang by agreement with the leadership of the PRC.
we found support from the real sector.
we lead roads and railways throughout the territory that our ancestors inherited, providing air traffic, "said the leader of the nation.
we see this in our closest neighbors.
We live in difficult times.
innovation in the education system will be accepted into school only after grade 9, starting from this school year (2015-2016).
this will allow connecting state institutions, residential buildings, including 27 square meters.
this is 5-10 percent of troubled borrowers.
competition is impossible to talk about if the infrastructure is not energy efficient.
During the talks with the leadership of the Spanish Foreign Ministry, the parties noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries and the importance of organizing the visit of the King of Spain to Kazakhstan.
subsequently, the crews will be given the coordinates of the "disaster of patience" of the ship.
discussion of trade and economic cooperation of heads of state at the bilateral level and within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
N.Nazarbayev instructed to invest in export-oriented projects.
According to him, undergraduates and doctoral students withdraw undergraduates from the labor market.
the installation will take about 1.5 years, "the report said.
The page says how you can "save yourself from corruption."
As practice shows, the actions and methods of terrorists are the same everywhere, "he said.
The presentation was attended by the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN Kairat Abdrakhmanov, the Consul General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Rosa Esbolatov, as well as their colleagues registered in New York, "the statement said.
changes in the exchange rate of the national currency did not affect the construction period.
the three-tier judicial system - the first level court - district courts, the appellate court - the regional court, the cassation level - the general court. the three-tier system - a court of first instance - district courts , appeals instance - regional court and cassational instance - the supreme court .
As you know, in the blockade of such a negative impact, an unsuccessful socio-economic environment remains.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 13030 citizens who applied, 8378 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2,449 people received applications for changing their details, 2,203 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
The volume of production in agriculture amounted to 144.3 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan and Finland are connected by traditional good and fruitful relations, which have significant opportunities for further strengthening of mutually beneficial partnership. kazakhstan and finland have traditionally good and fruitful relations with considerable potential for further strengthening .
All the main achievements and successes of Kazakhstan during the years of independence, for democracy and progress are connected with your name. your name is connected to all the main achievements and successes of kazakhstan 's independence on the path of democracy and progress .
In January-September 2015, consumer goods and production and technical products worth 2045331 million tenge were sold through the wholesale network, which is 7.8% higher than the same volume last year.
The event was attended by Governor of Mangistau region Alik Aydarbayev, Chairman of the Board of the autonomous organization of education "Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools," well-known scientists in the region, representatives of politics and the public, teachers, schoolchildren and their parents.
mountain preparation is divided into two directions.
During the discussion, the need was noted to ensure equal and fair competition for entrepreneurs of all EAEU member states, as well as compliance with sanitary and epidemiological, phytosanitary and veterinary control measures throughout the country.
During the meeting, such important issues as drug trafficking, the fight against crime, terrorism, corruption and other signs of extremism will be discussed.
Varvarinsky railway station was built to receive fuel and lubricants.
The main goal of the center is to obtain systemic data on the "green" economy and technologies, familiarize the population with the experience of using technologies and practices of energy and water conservation, "said D. Nurmoldin.
interaction with foreign investors, the possibility of creating joint ventures, discussion of 7 sections of mechanical engineering: motor transport, oil and gas, mining and metallurgical, economic, railway, electrical, "he said.
: Sultanov appreciated the work of Petrostroy Luxury, which is building a kindergarten with 200 seats.
all we see today from the capital is your work, "said the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
therefore, any manufacturer needs to cut costs first of all, "he said.
He also noted that within the framework of EXPO-2017, the ministry is engaged in certification rules.
- Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of India on the transfer of convicted persons;
the parties discussed the issues of ensuring the need for Russian reactors in Kazakhstan uranium through joint ventures of Karatau LLP, white in white and cross.
of which on the pages of the publication - 108, in the electronic garden - 152 articles, a total of 487 round tables, seminars and lectures were held.
In addition, he told representatives of regional employers' associations about the need to form a favorable social climate in labor collectives, warning that paper products should be abandoned in this matter.
products of the enterprise - bread, baursack, cake, cupcake, cookies.
its leader is a young Zhanakorgan entrepreneur kaisar abaikhanovich, "the report said.
In this regard, it is of particular importance to work out individual work, personal qualities of the student and improve his professional skills, "said Major Alexander Brytkov, a teacher at the training center.
The youth of Kazakhstan will be as it is, "said N.Sanay.
It should be noted that today the V Congress of world and traditional grain leaders with the participation of the head of state is taking place in the capital.
According to the bill, foreign companies operating in Kazakhstan will be obliged to hang the Kazakh flag with the flags of their countries, "said the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhanov.
in general, the law "On Access to Public Information" was developed to implement the 94th step of the Plan of the Nation.
Today, modern economic affairs allow us to hold this forum, these are topical issues on the agenda. as you know , nowadays modern economic realities make the holding of this forum , its agenda than ever relevant .
The building a considers this list of qualifications implemented together with international partners.
I've wanted to be a military man since I was a kid, because my father is a military man. since my childhood i wanted to become a soldier , because my father was a serviceman .
As of August 1, 2015, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 35,4508 units and increased by 1.7% compared to the same period last year, including 345,466 units with less than 100 employees.
white casgeology and "korea resources corporation" in March 2014 concluded a cooperation agreement on the implementation of a project for the exploration of polymetals on a weightless section of the Karaganda region.
During the meeting, issues related to the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation, the improvement of the legal framework for mutual cooperation, the creation of cultural centers between the two countries, as well as issues related to cultural events dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 170th anniversary of the Kazakh great thinker and the 110th anniversary of the Chinese Sinhai composer were discussed.
During the meeting, topical issues of the international agenda and prospects for bilateral cooperation were discussed.
During the visit, we signed a memorandum with Kazakhstan on assistance to Kazakhstan in the formation of a financial center, "said M. Khvan.
According to foreign experts, this conference is a unique phenomenon, "said the Chairman of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the meeting, he also invited interested Lebanese organizations and companies to participate in the VI Astana invest-2015 international investment forum, which will be held in the capital on October 2015, 27-30.
Recall that the summer spartakiad "white wheat" will be held in the Tselinograd region from August 11 to 15, 2015.
According to the vice-president of the Central Party School, the implementation of this initiative will contribute to the development of relations between the two countries, as well as the improvement of the Central Asian zone.
we will overcome all these risks, there are necessary opportunities for this, plans have been developed. we will overcome all these challenges , we have all appropriate opportunities .
Also on the same day, a round table was held in the central office of the Nұr Otan party on the topic: "Partnership between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the People's Republic of China within the framework of the One Belt, One Way economic belt project with the participation of the delegation of the Communist Party of China.
Activity is also gaining momentum in China, and the economy of Kazakhstan is integrated into China.
It should be noted that within the framework of the astana invest forum this year, the "Kazakh-Emirati business forum" was organized for the first time.
now many people do not achieve the dignity of the family, young people get married invisibly, and the family is the inexhaustible wealth of every person, "he said.
Recall, "Caspian Sea - 2015" is the first competition among the naval forces of the Caspian countries.
of course, we have to distinguish between course identities. of course , we are concerned about the problems of exchange rate differences .
At the same time, the Alliance of Paired and Paired Civilizations works with civil society and religious leaders. "
in the acord, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko signed a joint statement by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the President of Ukraine.
Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov will take part in the press conference.
it is designed for 1,200 children, and students begin a new school year in a new school.
He noted that these projects will be provided with raw materials on a long-term basis.
The company operates in 40 countries, the number of employees is about 60,000 people.
During a meeting with the Minister of Foreign Economic Relations, Investment and Trade of the Republic of Uzbekistan Elier Ganiev and Chairman of the Board of Uzbek Railways Aichilbay Ramatov, issues of increasing trade and economic relations between the two countries, creating optimal tariff conditions for transported goods by rail in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan were discussed.
he wished our athletes success and great gold medals.
and the project will equally take into account the improvement of the courtyard, architecture, artistry and efficiency of use for the benefit of students.
For our part, we are ready to provide maximum information support to Chinese entrepreneurs who are interested in opening new industries based on Kazakhstani enterprises, "said the chairman of the Nadloc national agency.
The Chamber adopted the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Judicial System and the Status of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
As of September 1, 2015, 1000 people were sent for retraining and vocational training, 368 citizens were employed in social jobs, 444 graduates intend to undergo youth practice, 203 people received microcredit.
energy of the future Expo 2017. "
I thank the President of Kazakhstan for the warm meeting on hospitable Kazakh soil, "he said.
38.4 billion tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
It is very important for us that both Great Britain and France participate in the implementation of industrial and infrastructure programs.
The Israeli side highly appreciated the active role of Kazakhstan in the international arena and the contribution to strengthening security and stability in the world.
The press conference will be attended by Majilis deputies, member of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Majilis deputy, secretary of the Committee on Security and Defense, International Affairs of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Victor Rogalev.
the rest will be transferred to citizens who want to get an education in Russian, "the minister said.
Kazakhstan opened a diplomatic mission in Belgrade, introduced a visa-free regime for Serbian citizens.
According to the chairman, the cooperation group with Bulgaria, which will work in the Senate of Kazakhstan, will contribute to the deepening of multifaceted cooperation between the two countries.
firstly, we are creating a complex of research on test vehicles in the capital, which is a high-tech enterprise that has no analogues in the CIS countries.
The meeting participants noted that such meetings will expand the horizons of cooperation between the two countries and increase the role of inter-parliamentary diplomacy.
In addition, the exhibition "Kyzylorda Smart City" and the exhibition of investment projects will be held for guests.
all of them are aimed at the development of light industry. "
It is planned that the heads of state will discuss the most pressing issues of bilateral relations, including trade and economic cooperation.
in order to become a hub in this space, it has the integration of conditions in space between Asia and Europe.
free sanatorium treatment is included in the package of guaranteed medical services provided for military personnel in Kazakhstan.
aa. Idrissov noted that the main topic of the summit at the suggestion of President Nursultan Nazarbayev will be cooperation in the information sphere.
it will also develop a law "On the commercialization of the results of scientific research" and reorient the structure of scientific grants and programs to the needs of the state industrialization program.
the same requirements are imposed in the field of construction, energy, trade.
honestly, from childhood I dreamed of participating in this competition. frankly speaking , i have dreamed about this competition since childhood , and i 'm really glad that it ended in such a way .
As part of the summit, issues of territorial security and strengthening migration policy were discussed, "the statement said.
the experience of modern military requirements shows the importance of updating weapons and military equipment, the introduction of new technologies in the process of managing troops at all levels.
Earlier, the Tulpar-Talgo partnership supplied these cargoes to Kazakhstan only by motor transport and turned to electric logistics providers for help.
The working group included heads of state bodies, deputies, intellectuals, heads of non-governmental organizations and political parties.
In his speech, he expressed confidence that it is possible to work and cooperate with a large number of joint projects in business, mining, entrepreneurial, and trade spheres.
Participants of the event got acquainted with the political biography of the first President of Kazakhstan, his contribution to the strengthening and development of Kazakhstan, the achievements of our country in the international arena.
The issues of expanding the legal framework, increasing cooperation in the exchange of information and specialists were also discussed.
In addition, Kazakhstan is initiating a number of regional proposals to improve water problems in central Asia.
in particular, cooperation will be strengthened in areas that have a multiplier effect on many industries, such as the electric power industry, transport, communications, the agro-industrial complex, as well as tourism.
We hope that at the end of this year the situation with manufacturers of finished products will continue compared to last year, "he said.
The Republic of Kazakhstan supports initiatives to peacefully stop bloody and violent actions in Syria, the Secretary of State said.
As noted by the Chairman of the CSSP, the system of the "unified register of subjects and objects of inspections" will contain information on all subjects under inspection, their degree of risk, the history of all previously carried out inspections and their results.
The following issues will be considered within the framework of this bill: from January 2018 to January 1, the size of the subsistence minimum (today - 40%) is targeted social assistance, due to the participation of less than 50% of able-bodied family members in active measures that replace the current employment measures to introduce new rules for the provision of services to each family member, "said the Minister of Health and Social Development Tamara Duissenova.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and B. Obama noted the importance of the Kazakh-American partnership to ensure the development, stability and security of the region.
Until July 31, 2015, 351 objects were put up for sale, of which 190 were sold, 1 was transferred to trust management for subsequent redemption.
WTO membership will give a new impetus to our economy, on the other hand, will allow the domestic enterprise to enter foreign markets. wto membership opens up new horizons for our economy : on the one hand , it provides our companies an access to foreign markets and a huge large selection of products for consumers .
The sides also exchanged views on further strengthening of trade, economic and investment cooperation.
Within the framework of the agreement between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan (katiad), charity and social support measures will be implemented in one district of the city.
At this rate, the problem of the shortage of kindergarten in the city of Ridder will be solved within a year, and then - in a year and a half, "the akim of the region said.
The Summit on the Peaceful Reconstruction of Afghanistan and Regional Cooperation, organized by Afghans, Kazakhs and Chinese, brought together the Foreign Ministers of more than 20 States, as well as the European Union.
The constant passions of terrorist organizations for access to nuclear weapons, their parts, technology and radioactive materials pose great risks to all mankind and remain relevant.
for example, we decided that it was necessary to improve the decision-making process on construction.
From September 23 to 25, the Eurasian Women's Forum will be held in St. Petersburg.
the Muslims of our country respect others by professing their religion.
According to the report, following the meeting of the heads of government of Kazakhstan and India in the capital, a road map on trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two states was signed.
production of rubber and plastic products, light industry products, metallurgical and chemical products, "the report said.
In order to strengthen the package of measures to support motherhood and childhood, a special state allowance for mothers with many children awarded the "golden collegium," "silver collegium" or previously awarded the title "mother heroine," awarded the orders "mother glory" I and II degree, is changed to the allowance for mothers with many children.
According to the ambassador, at the end of this month an exhibition of the agricultural industry will be held in the capital.
The implementation of the first five-year plan of uiid mb and its programmes has led to the restructuring of the national economy and has become one of the main drivers of the growth of many indicators and the cessation of industrialization of the country.
According to the President of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization encourages domestic businessmen to think about consumers, reckon with their requirements and interests.
In 2015, the first 38 students of the school, who were awarded the Bolashak scholarship, began their studies.
in addition, the first reading considers the draft constitutional law "On the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and amendments to the constitutional laws on issues of the supreme judicial council, the judicial system and the status of judges, as well as amendments and additions to some legislative acts on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities.
we learned to rejoice.
the total investment will amount to $1.5 million.
the integrity and development of the nation's plan. "
The National Commission considers problems with children as social, "said S. atpayev.
meat, meat products, milk and dairy products, lawns, fruits, melons and processing products, etc.
Those who have not crossed the threshold level of 50 points - 3,478 (18.4%).
Nursultan Nazarbayev also praised the plan to create a special commission on cooperation between the foreign ministries of the two countries, the task of which will be the clear implementation of all agreements between Kazakhstan and Great Britain.
2,303 trips and excursions were organized during the summer, 1,912 tourist trips and 443 sports fees in the republic. during summer 2303 quests and walking tours were organized , 1 912 tours about the country and 443 sport camps .
in addition, awards and awards are held for military personnel who distinguished themselves in the performance of official duties, awards of the winners of the competitions "best young family," "best young coach," "best senior mentor," "best junior commander," as well as a festive concert of amateur performances.
we have identified industrial sectors.
The main goal of the conference is to promote respect for state symbols, to introduce the young generation to patriotism, the report said.
medical care is provided for nursing homes: primary health care, medical rehabilitation (treatment with electricity, rays, paraffin, water, magnet, inhalation, massages, etc.), psychological and corrective methods for adapting elderly people, 4 periodic meals, individual laundry, it is planned to conduct labor therapy for residents.
The new climate agreement, which is scheduled to be adopted in December in Paris instead of the Kyoto Protocol, is expected to strengthen the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions at the international level, introduce standards, technological requirements, carbon quotas and take into account emissions in the implementation of international projects.
The conference was attended by the director of the corporate fund "Children's Villages of Sauce of Kazakhstan" batyrkhan genaliyev and the director of the program "Sos Astana Children's Village" zauresh arystanov and the chief expert of the committee for the protection of children's rights of Kazakhstan gulmira culsariev.
we were all mobilized and captured this tower. we worked closely together and captured the tower .
Our main feature is that we were closer to the Russian Federation. our main advantage is the proximity of the russian federation .
secondly, we need access to the housing market.
Kazenergoproduct LLP is located in Semipalatinsk.
we continue to work as far as possible, we plan to continue equipping equipment.
The event was attended by about 200 representatives of companies and government agencies of Great Britain and Kazakhstan.
according to the tradition established today on the 16th anniversary of the school, 81 pupils of the 5th training company of 14 regions, the cities of Astana and Almaty in the presence of their classmates, military personnel and teachers with honor awarded the title "Ulan," observing all the anniversary traditions of the school.
the great Turkic country is our common ancestors and heroes, our common spiritual wealth. grand turk el - our common homeland with ancestors and heroes , common spiritual wealth .
the first course - training at the combined arms faculty, the second course - distribution by specialties, taking into account academic achievement, health status and medical indications.	the first course - combined arms faculty , the second course - group out according to the academic performance , health and medical indications .	1,06
Mckinsey & company monitored our industry and opened its eyes to a lot.	the next stage involves the implementation of initiatives developed by mckinsey & company and ' baiterek ' holding .	1,06
I'm a coach, my friend in Alexander.
In addition, the Governor's Office of Astana and the Chairman of the Board of the Investment Fund of Kazakhstan Rinat Sisembayev signed a memorandum.
we are purposefully working on five reforms, the entire apparatus of the government and members of parliament work. we , the whole apparatus of the government , deputies of the parliament work hard on five reforms .
large-scale volumes of markets in this space determine the need for the development of broad economic cooperation between the Eeo and Shu countries. in the current modern economic environment conditions this project can become a driver of the economic growth in the countries of the eurasian sub-region .
American partners showed interest in Expo 2017, noting the importance of the exhibition theme for the world community.
An engineering backbone system worth 300 million tenge will be involved along Suleymanov Street, "the report said.
At present, efficient water supply is needed in Central Asian countries. it is important for all the central asian countries to understand that together we can effectively use water resources available in our stock .
This year, 87 thousand tons of vegetable products were produced, which is 150% of the volume of greenhouses of the republic.
now there is a special group in parliament to implement this thesis, "the deputy said.
The competition-exhibition of the best goods of Kazakhstan is a unique event for establishing business ties with the search for new consumers.
According to the executive director, worldwide the export of services is developing, which include exploration, the IT sector.
It should be noted that the conference is attended by the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan k.masimov, deputies and chairmen of the houses of parliament, members of the constitutional council of Kazakhstan, heads of central state bodies and heads of constitutional control bodies of 29 countries.
This year, the head of state announced 5 priority areas of qualitative modernization of Kazakhstan, including increasing the reliability of investors in the future, "he said.
at the same time, agriculture provides small growth, and industrial enterprises, including engineering, have reduced production, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the parties discussed the formation of the composition of the Kazakh-Egyptian business council, the participation of the Egyptian side in the international specialized exhibition expo-2017, the modernization of the supply of Kazakh wheat to Egypt, etc.
We are confident that these facilities and other sports facilities of the capital will contribute to the development of Kazakh sports, including ice hockey, "said A. Mamin.
The management of the ministry, heads of departments and managements, commanders-in-chief of types of troops, type of military forces, top military commanders of regional command, chiefs of military educational institutions, departments for defense, non-commissioned officer's structure participated in a meeting of board.
Despite any difficulties, we must not allow the economic growth rate to decline and the social situation of our citizens to deteriorate.
Recall that the national holding Kazagro will spend a total of 100.6 billion tenge on the spring-field and harvesting campaigns of the current year.
the most interesting, noisy solutions will be taken as a basis, "said E. Brasulov.
From January 1, 2016, 10% of the pension will be returned to the current military personnel, which is 50% of the total pension.	in addition , it is proposed to return to the budget 50 % of the mandatory pension contributions , listed by the budget until 1 january 2016 in their favor ,  - s.zhakupova said .
the lowest regions identified the South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Kyzylorda regions, where the income level of the population is lower than the average republican by 27-39%.
the festival was attended by members of the kha, employees of the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, ethnocultural associations of Belarus.
Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will be a great criticism for our producers, but our agency does not do this. accession to the wto will be a great challenge for our producers , but our agency is not in place .
During the meeting, in a narrow and expanded composition, the heads of state discussed the main areas of bilateral cooperation, exchanged views on relevant international issues on the agenda.
this is really an unprecedented system for providing apartments, there is no down payment, there are no high interest rates. this is really unprecedented conditions to obtain flats , there is no down payment , no high interest rates .
Thus, the meeting participants were informed about the creation of a "one window" mechanism in the system of foreign economic activity.
It is worth noting that during this visit, the French ambassador met with entrepreneurs of the region, visited such zones of the Taldykorgan as the gorge and Lake Kolsay, got acquainted with the implementation of the "lead-east gate" and "land harbor" projects.
we know that there are more Kyrgyz products on the Kazakh market, and this agreement will allow our consumers to fully protect their products, "said D. Ashimbayev.
K. Tokayev believes that it is necessary to use all the possibilities of Kazakh-Cuban relations to expand mutually beneficial cooperation, including to develop inter-parliamentary relations, to increase ties between the business community in the field of health, culture, education, tourism and agriculture.
ensuring the legality of the bill. "
Ekdb will help in the implementation of these tasks, "said S. chakrabart.
Karl Likargé, Commercial Director of bauer texs, expressed his readiness to participate in this project.
The volume of the real index amounted to 101.6%, "the department of economics and budget planning of the Mangistau region said.
In 2014, we took guests to Sochi, this is a great experience for us.
Brasilia. Zhoshybayev held talks with the leadership of the Brazilian Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Tourism, Energy and Mineral Resources, the body organizing Brazil's participation in the expo and leading travel agencies.
the implementation of a new financial and credit policy based on inflation targeting will positively affect the implementation of strategic tasks - the long-term growth of the domestic economy, reducing inflation, improving the well-being of the population, "K. Massimov assured.
In good times, raising money, creating a fund were prepared, "he said. Nazarbayev.
According to him, after the transition of Kazakhstan to a new economic policy, it is necessary to qualitatively transform the economy so that the government does not depend on export-oriented industries.
At an expanded government meeting on May 5 this year, the head of state instructed to create a local police body accountable to the population.
I believe that business needs to prepare its strategic plans and understand its position, "he said.
today we have greatly simplified the special rules of the game for journalists.
the winners of the qualifying round will take part in the R-16 championship, which will be held in South Korea.
production grew by more than 4.5 times and amounted to 678 billion tenge, and the number of jobs increased by 4 times and 6684 people were employed.
a. Lukashenko, n. Nazarbayev - uses experience in the post-Soviet space and in Soviet times.
and this is really what we can, "Dr. Zhamzharova said at the patriot forum" Eternal Country is a United Future. "
Within the framework of these consultations, a meeting was organized between the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Anarbek Karashev and the Secretary General of the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Christian Strommen.
countries such as Kazakhstan are also needed, which will hold discussions in itself.
During the conversation, the ambassador informed about the preparations for the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana and the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium in Kazakhstan in agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (magate).
30,069 million were invested, 230 people were employed.
The President of Kazakhstan also elaborated on the current important tasks set for the country.
searchlight matches will be used to illuminate stadiums, at transformer posts, "the report said.
It is an honor and responsibility for us to receive a reward for your hands, "said one of the winners of the contest, Senior Lieutenant Aliya Hyrullina.
Including this year it is planned to launch 5 projects in the amount of 5.1 billion tenge, which will create 220 new jobs.
Foreign Ministers of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey discussed further steps to develop and strengthen cooperation within the framework of this organization, including such areas as the information sector, tourism and investment.
In September of this year, experts plan to hold a meeting of inspections of the enterprise.
we found bone jewelry.
to do this, they must create all the necessary conditions.
we will protect this flag and hand it to the future generation, "said the daulet of ospans.
According to him, 25 new and 8 expanded industries were introduced in the region, 1200 jobs were created in industry alone.
Recall that on Knowledge Day, all first-graders of the country will be presented with a special gift from the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev - the book "My homeland is Kazakhstan."
qatar solar energy is the first manufacturer of photovoltaic products with a vertically integrated process in the Middle East and North Africa region.
Following the meeting, the Secretary of State Abdykalikova wished the Spanish ambassador good health and good luck in the new workplace.
over the years, an institute of state history has been created, many of our scientists went abroad to search for and comprehensively study historical materials.
a person without you, because only two months ago this area was an open area where they were empty. hard to believe , but just two months ago this place was a wasteland .
this system tests a soldier according to 40 criteria, 35 questions are established to evaluate all officers regardless of position and is divided into three chapters: general behavior, training, special qualities.	in particular , 35 questions are highlighted in the common unit for the assessment of all officers , regardless of position and they divided into three sections : the quality of general , professional fitness , special and distinctive features .	1,06
According to the organizers of the project, a cycling enthusiast wants to come to our country and see a cosmodrome, for which Kazakhstan does not have to modernize the tourist infrastructure.	according to the organizers of the project , cycling fans will want to visit the country , including the spaceport , and for that kazakhstan does not need to upgrade the tourist infrastructure globally .	1,06
It was noted that in the first years of sovereignty, a number of American companies demonstrated by their actions an example of effective investment in Kazakhstan.	it was noted that in the early years of the sovereignty a number of us companies set an example for profitable investment in kazakhstan by their actions .	1,06
purpose of the seminar on implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019, Comprehensive plan for improvement of the system of technical regulation and metrology until 2020, implementation of the action plan on the strategic plan of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2014 - 2018, small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises, public institutions, promotion of state policy in the field of management system among representatives of local government, increasing the level of knowledge of specialists in the field of technical regulation and management system. "
we have a lot in common, we are allies in nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation, as well as the peaceful use of nuclear energy, "the head of state said.
at the plenary debate of the General Assembly, I voiced the views of our country on global political and economic issues.	as n.nazarbayev said , the speech outlined the vision of global political and economic issues .	1,06
cooperation with military universities of near and far abroad plays a special role in improving the system of training military personnel, creating and qualitative development of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.	cooperation plays a special role in improving the system of military training , construction and qualitative development of the armed forces of kazakhstan .	1,06
these measures are aimed at stimulating the work of scientists and their significant contribution to science and the development of a knowledge-based economy.	these measures are aimed at stimulating the work of scientists and strengthening their real contribution to science , the development of knowledge-based economy .	1,06
museums of Kazakhstan should become a center and a pillar of scientific institutions, archives, libraries, "he said.
According to the expert, Russia, Germany, Denmark, Belgium, South Korea, Turkey took part in the exhibition.
next year will be the year of Kashagan.
that is, to suffer mass losses.
integration according to the concluded memorandum implies the development of gis technologies, shooting, photogrammetry and remote checks, the exchange of experience between persons responsible for the policy of geocultural information and the creation of the functionality of geocultural information for the Eurasian industry.
In accordance with the agreement between the head of state and Russian President V. Putin on the launch of a citizen of Kazakhstan to the international space station, Ayymbetov's candidacy was agreed.
Net income for the first half of 2015 amounted to 2.67 billion tenge (2014).
it will be supplemented with information on orphans, children's health, issues of drug addiction and crime, and so on, "said Svetlana Zhakupova.
It will be attended by the President of the Generation of Heroes Public Fund, Deputy Chairman of the Afghan War Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the owner of the Aibyn Order of the II degree, the head of the veteran organization Andrei Bazhenov, the executive director of the Generation of Heroes public fund nurlan Akhmetov.
Also, the American delegation visited the locomotive assembly plant Lokomotiv Zavod.
agreements reached in Beijing will weaken the impact of the global crisis on the Kazakh economy, which will make it possible to become a driver of further development and determine priority areas for the implementation of strategic projects, "he said.
In general, sport is a sign of the success of the country, the key to peace. " Akhmetov.
A nationwide project of a large family will be an example of strengthening Kazakhstan's identity and social harmony.
During the meeting, issues of political and trade and economic cooperation with the Vice-Minister of the Kingdom of Guido Landhir were discussed.
During the meeting, the main directions of the council's activities, ways to improve its work and plans for the upcoming period were discussed.
The winner in the nomination "social entrepreneurship" was the team of the capital, in the nomination "socially responsible profession" - the team.
in accordance with the principles of heraldry, the sun symbolizes wealth and abundance, life and strength.
representatives of large Ukrainian companies, the aircraft industry, mining, mechanical engineering, exploration, agriculture, grain industry, the report said.
Following the talks, agreements were reached to consider the possibility of participation of Italian companies in the development of the pharmaceutical industry of Kazakhstan.
The Head of State once again congratulated the Indian people and N.Modi on his appointment to the post of Prime Minister, and also noted the large-scale programs that he intends to implement for the development of India.
it is necessary to intensify contacts with the countries of the eaeo brix, shu. eaeu should develop ties with the brics countries .
on the one hand, this is a competition, on the other hand, an exchange of creative experience, "said the Director General of the Metropolitan Circus during a press conference in Astana.
By the order of the head of state, the darkhan aitkaliul dilmanov was appointed deputy chairman of the national security committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan - director of the border service, relieved of temporary duties of the deputy chairman of the national security committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan - director of the border service
One of the most important tasks set by the head of state is to ensure economic growth, increase the standard of living of the population and combat unemployment. the most important task set by the president is to ensure economic growth , raise living standards , and to prevent the unemployment growth .
according to the unistream system, money can be sent to more than 100 countries of the world - CIS, Europe, Asia, etc.
- I am very surprised at what I see, and I believe that this is a fair court of the next century.
and also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and Capital Day, wished well-being and well-being to our country.
Also, ethnocultural associations of the assembly, national, international educational, scientific and expert, non-state and law enforcement agencies, as well as deputies elected to the Majilis of the parliament from the assembly were invited to actively participate in this process.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the first visit of the Prime Minister of India to the country takes place in a spirit of mutual understanding and friendship.
a. Tors highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan in the process of creating a multi-thousandth and multinational state based on the principles of preserving the rights and development of minorities, supporting ethnic, religious and cultural diversity.
The conference is attended by the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a member of the Ekyu intelligentsia group Kassym-generous Tokai, Secretary of State. abdykalikova, Minister of Foreign Affairs erlan Idris, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Serbia to Ecu. senior consultant of the Bureau of Military and Political Affairs of the State Department of Kazakhstan, half fritch, leading Kazakh and international security experts.
they are carried out in the following areas: landscaping and landscaping of territories, the development and patronage of forest gardens, places of recreation and tourism; harvesting, processing and storage of agricultural products, agricultural work; construction and reconstruction of housing stock, restoration of historical and architectural monuments and protected areas; road repair and maintenance; landscaping of courtyards, cleanliness of entrances, housing and communal services, etc.
In 2015, 32,000,000 tenge was allocated from the district budget for the stage clothes of the new club building, 250,000 tenge were allocated for window blinds, 1742,000 tenge were allocated for the purchase of musical equipment.
during the visit, meetings were held with the political leadership of the federal region, business and cultural circles, in particular with the president of the land parliament reinhart, the deputy head of the carinthian beate beate pretender, representatives of leading industrial companies, as well as the organizers of the folklore festival of the city of fillahe.
the construction of 14 health facilities has begun, the remaining 14 relate to cultural, sports, social protection, environmental protection.
The main topics of political consultations in Madrid are the expansion of relations in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres and international issues.
at the first concert "Eight Seasons" famous works will be presented - the cycle "Seasons" antonio vivaldi and four compositions-tango "Seasons in Buenos Aires."
As for the first results of the strategy, it is worth noting the fourth ministerial conference between the EU and European countries on the rule of law in the capital.
From 2012 to 2014, the list of UNESCO world reserves included a mound, alacol, pine caton and akzhayyk.
for the first time from our Baikonur, a man went into space. the first man flew into space from our land , we have the cosmodrome " baikonur . "
our base has 1,500 companies that produce various products. in our database , there are 1 500 companies manufacturing variety of finished goods .
This year it is planned to repair local roads in the amount of 5.2 billion tenge, "the Governor of North Kazakhstan region said.
In this regard, the project to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises was ratified by the parliament, two more projects are under consideration by the meeting, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
exports of raw materials are mainly sent to countries far abroad and China, processed products go to central Asia, the Caucasus, Iran and Afghanistan.
The head of state also met with the city's asset, introduced a new leader and determined the directions for the further development of the metropolis.
The volume of the aktau open fest festival is expanding every year both from the participants and by the types of art that are presented there.
The President of Kazakhstan told representatives of American business about the formation and development of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, as well as about modern successes on the way to strengthening the authority of the republic in the international arena along with the implementation of reforms.
According to Vitaly Nesis, General Director of the polymetallic enterprise, Varvarinsky JSC is one of the largest companies, so its main goal is to provide stable raw materials.
As the head of the free economic society, the famous Russian economist, (19911992) the first mayor of Moscow Gabriel Popov, n. Nazarbayev became the first foreign holder of the large gold medal of Russia.
The head of state drew attention first of all to the need to attract leading countries in the field of alternative technologies.
E. Turan noted that the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" infrastructure development program proposed by Nursultan Nazarbayev is very important.
The Head of State noted that Pakistan, under the leadership of the Sharif, is accelerating economic growth and becoming a country with a significant place in world politics.
this duty closed the possibility of selling our products that were sold there, "he said.
this is important for the development and strengthening of mutual understanding between religion and people, "the leader of the nation emphasized.
He expressed hope that Nepal will take part in the Expo 2017 exhibition as part of the "energy of the future," which is one of the largest events in Kazakhstan.
the relevant notification was sent to the authorized bodies of the countries of the Eurasian Economic Community.
financial controls have been strengthened. financial control is tightened .
The opening ceremony was attended by the top leadership of the host country, the scientific intelligentsia, the political establishment, the diplomatic corps, large entrepreneurs, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora and members of parliament.
all ethnic groups in Kazakhstan, regardless of number, are equal.
Kazakhstan is the largest transit hub in the Central Asian zone.
Work is currently under way to "increase the depth" of the second phase, designed for 2013-2015.
when we talk about the constitution, we perceive it as the main law governing human rights and freedoms. speaking about the constitution , we mean the basic law , the legal document regulating political rights and freedoms , " - a.zhailganova said .
In each village, farm, suburban cottages, farms, departments, squares, raids are organized to identify children of the "risk group."
The Secretary General of the Ecu highly appreciated the activity of Kazakhstan, which has launched a number of international initiatives to solve existing problems of the world, in particular to strengthen financial, economic and energy security.
in addition, in accordance with the order, projects in the light and food industries will be considered, as well as research related to progressive technologies in the packaging and construction industries.
In my opinion, these actions should be held more often, "said the director of the orphanage gulmira caribaeva.
these several projects will become a kind of bridge for the rest, "said T. guoli.
According to the results of the state program of maximum tariffs, the volume of investments for the creation of new assets, as well as their expansion, renewal, support, reconstruction and technical re-equipment will amount to about 47.3 billion tenge.
kamaz engineering produced goods worth 2.7 billion tenge, or 111% compared to 2014, 240 units of equipment were shipped, 236 trucks were produced, 221 units worth 2.4 billion tenge were shipped in January-June 2014.
the Nazarbayev model showed its effectiveness, viability in both peaceful and crisis life.
on behalf of Secretary of State Abdykalikova and the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan.
President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and President of Kazakhstan b. at the plague meetings, including in September this year at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, the issues reached within the framework of the participation of heads of state were touched upon.
In August this year, Magate noted that Kazakhstan's real contribution to the launch of a bank of low-enriched uranium, as well as the provision of a platform for two stages of negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program.
in addition, we have projects in the field of production of potash fertilizers, construction materials and energy, "he said.
Documents for signing have been prepared on these issues, "Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko assured.
Director General of the Kamazin aak S. Kogogogin notes that of all the states of the post-Soviet space, Kazakhstan has become the closest country for the company and for all Russians.
the parties also touched upon the main aspects of the further expansion of bilateral economic and investment ties.
Multifaceted cooperation between Kazakhstan and Bashkortostan, long-standing friendly relations between our peoples will continue.
mining amounted to 126.8 billion tenge, manufacturing - 289.8 billion tenge.
investors show great interest in Kazakhstan. "
In accordance with the new law on public service, the public service of Kazakhstan is moving to a career model.
industrial production volume - 220.3 billion tenge or 104.9%. the industrial production volume - kzt 220.3 billion .
According to him, the issue of the distribution of the judicial system is being considered.
according to him, the ulus estate is the popularization of close and fruitful ties of ancient nomadic and settled peoples.
second place - the Republic of Belarus, third - the team of the Russian Federation.
the average amount of state social allowance for this period for disability amounted to 22,903 tenge, for the case of loss of the breadwinner - 20,211 tenge, for age - 11,110 tenge.
The delegation of Kazakhstan presented the final report of the project "Modernization of technical and vocational education" of the system of technical and vocational education in Kazakhstan and the World Bank.
Since the beginning of the project, more than 1,900 km of roads have been opened from Russia to Shymkent in Aktobe, Kyzylorda and Almaty, "said A. Bekov.
trade between China and 8% in 2020 will pass through the Western Europe-Western China corridor, "said B. Sagintayev.
now he works in production with his father. "
I consider this visit a turning point in Kazakh-Chinese relations. i think this visit is a turning point in the kazakh-chinese relations .
As I have already reported, we were forced to reduce all our expenses, of course, if we do not take social expenses, "the head of state said.
Negotiations are underway with 20 transnational companies, 10 specific agreements have been concluded. negotiations with more than 20 multinational companies are carried out , it has been managed to reach concrete agreements with 10 of them .
we passed the qualifying stage, it was very difficult.
As part of the meeting, the consul general invited the Hong Kong side to take part in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
At the summit with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia, special attention will be paid to the development of integration processes on the scale of associations.
During the visit, the Kazakh delegation held meetings with the chairman of the Stevenage City Council, Sharon Taylor, the head of the city, Scott Cradgington and the director of the Strategic Development Department Matthew Partridge.
No, it's impossible to Expo without diamonds. expo intended primarily to show the energy of the future .
among them are teachers of mathematics, history, biology, physics, computer science, the Kazakh language.
65.8% of the total income came from the provision of communication services to the population and amounted to 67630.4 million tenge, which is 17.4% lower than the level of the corresponding period of 2014.
the Assembly makes a great contribution to the stability of the State. the assembly makes a major contribution to the stability of the state , uniting society .
the sixth reason is the inability of legal entities to participate in production cooperatives in the current conditions, "the minister said.
It should be noted that the project is implemented within the framework of the memorandum of understanding and cooperation in the field of geological research and exploration of subsoil between Kazakhstan and iluka resources limited.
And the first children opened an eco-agro farm in the footsteps of Arthur parents.
for example, in September this year, the World Bank launched a project on energy efficiency.
the people should clearly understand that this is beneficial in the first place, it is beneficial to the economy through which we increase the well-being of Kazakhstanis, "N. Nazarbayev said.
Under the leadership of the chief of the joint headquarters, representatives of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Armenia and Belarus, representatives of leading military educational institutions of the Ministries of Defense of Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as officials of the joint headquarters were involved in the gathering.
Kazakhstan is a state with great potential in the field of oil and gas, mineral resources and agriculture. kazakhstan - a vast country with a potential in the sector of oil and gas , mineral resources , and agriculture .
World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Index published. in fact , the world economic forum is the most popular ranking forum in the world .
In the period from November to May, more than 100 works of students in grades 8-11 of the country were collected. the jury received more than 100 works from pupils of 8-11 classes from different regions of the country .
silicon consumers are the Russian Federation, Germany, the Netherlands.
older children grew up and gave grandchildren by the name of the region, a sholpan, who graduated from the first grade, "he said.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Thailand and Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN Marat Esenbayev noted that Kazakhstan's strategy until 2050 is based on the main directions of sustainable development: human capital, "green economy," science and innovation, energy, public administration and integration.
on European equipment, milk, kefir, kefir, sour cream will be poured into containers of paper.
thirdly, to know your place for each item: what belongs to the office, what subsidiaries have, "said M. Sesel.
Among especially important products, the production of cotton yarn increased by 42.0% (8,451 tons), cotton fabrics - by 12.7% (17 million square meters), building bricks - by 48.4% (168.3 thousand m3), Portland cement - by 41.6% (1572.8 thousand tons).
During the official visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to our country, we will appoint a commissioner of our pavilion in the capital, "the English minister shared during the meeting.
The press conference will be attended by the director of the public fund "Consent of Peoples," the scientific secretary of the Congress of National Historians of Kabuldin Fences.
Further approval of trade and economic relations between CIS countries, the activities and activities of whose working groups are carried out within the framework of metrograms, on the recognition of metrological work and the facilitation of metrological thieves, savings in financial and production resources, the development of agreed solutions for the development of national systems for ensuring the unity of measurements, this will create the necessary conditions for the approval of integration within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and the CIS countries
Also within the framework of the forum, a conference will be held on the topic: "Anshk: on the way to stability and prosperity."
As noted by B. Kaipova, today the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site was perceived as the most important event in the history of the development of mankind along the steam line.
In general, the participants of the EEC meeting worked out mutually beneficial decisions on topical issues of Eurasian economic integration development.
we are pleased with each of their achievements, because the main thing in the family is love, understanding and consent.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov, plenipotentiary representative of the Federal Government of Germany on issues of immigrants and minorities, deputy of the German Bundestag.
The event was organized by the European Commission for the Development of Democracy on the rights of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan and the Council of Europe, the secretariat of kha, the supreme court, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Mayor's Office of Astana, the government, and the government.
after which the saparbayev berdybek visited the youth tourist and local history center, reconstructed as part of the "Program for the development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020."
During the meeting with the activists of the party a.myrzakhmetov reported on the work done in the central office and local branches over the past two months.
The President of Kazakhstan also congratulated the Prime Minister of India on the recent international yoga day, which was adopted by the couple at the suggestion of the Indian side.
During the year, competitive procedures will be held, concessionaires will be identified at the end of the year and specific negotiations will begin.
As of October 16 of this year, pensions and benefits have been assigned to 2079 applicants.
we have been working with Kazakhstan for several years, we helped conduct energy audit, "said T. Kirsh
our country was represented by 5 schoolchildren.
our task is to know how the government and business operate, whether to provide them with advice, how explanatory work is carried out, to familiarize themselves with the issues of how state programs are implemented on the ground, which are important for the development of the national economy, "said Majilis deputy Elena Tarasenko.
for us, this is one of the best indicators in the ranking.
The volume of the country's international fund is $92.5 billion.
recently, we have seen changes in climate. in recent years we have seen changes in the climate .
According to the head of the Department of Energy and Public Utilities Alexander Martynenko, as of July 10, 499 boiler houses, 564 educational facilities, 869 residential buildings and 467 health facilities were prepared in the region.
in this regard, in my opinion, our results this year are not bad. so , this year we have good results .
the parties discussed issues related to the joint project to conduct preliminary geological studies in Kazakhstan.
As of November 17 of the current year, pensions and benefits were assigned to 2315 applicants.
The British side noted that the EXPO organization in the capital will contribute to the flow of technologies, strengthen the scientific base and increase the image of Kazakhstan in the international arena.
The Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan carries out cooperation in two areas: support and modernization of the economic sector.
We invite the National Bank to work with the Government of Kazakhstan on de-dollarization of the economy and growth of tenge instruments, "he said.
In addition, the Kazakh diplomat invited the management and companies of Bhutan to take part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo," which will be held in the capital in 2017.
The West is abandoning all initiatives proposed by Russia and China under a unified international security system. the west rejects all of the initiatives of russia and china to form a unified international security system .
At the same time, in the letter, the author notes that the future of Kazakhstan and his family is associated only with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the Secretary of State, the states support the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to create a new silk road.
As of November 5, 2015, 393 objects were actually put up for auction, of which 216 objects were sold, 11 objects were sold on republican property, 99 on communal property, 59 on JSC, and 47 on holdings.
The winners of the competition will prepare sweet equipment made with their own hands for guests and residents of the capital, including tanks, weapons, grenades and military attributes, and congratulate everyone on Capital Day, the statement said.
now the share of waste per capita is increasing, "said the director of the center.
As President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, in the next 30 years, world civilization will find wisdom and strength to end wars and conflicts.	taking this opportunity , i would urge the osce to support the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev voiced from the rostrum of the 70th session of the un general assembly ,  she has said .
The center is also engaged in expertise on feasibility studies of budget projects, design and estimate documentation, large projects implemented in Kazakhstan in order to form requirements for Kazakh products.
today all the doors are open to you, you live when you are interested, you move forward with the country. today , all the doors are open for you , you live in interesting time .
At the conference, members of the arbitration community discussed critical issues and recent achievements of international arbitration.
thus, the results of drug tests conducted in Kazakhstan will be recognized internationally.
the number of new construction companies increased, there were many offers, in the first market there were about 13-15 thousand apartments.
Within the framework of the international aerospace salon max-2015, the XII Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov met with the General Director of Rostec State Corporation Sergey Chemezov, the General Director of Rosoboronexport Anatoly Isaikin, as well as the President of Irkut Corporation Igor Demchenko and the General Director of Russian Helicopters of Russia.
The President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev praised the 30-year forecast of steam reforms at the session of the UN General Assembly.
therefore, we returned and asked for assistance on this issue.
state support is provided only to enterprises with high export potential, "said E. Dossayev.
the capital is a city of dreams, it is very convenient to serve here.
in my opinion, this is a proposal for heads of state and headquarters. of course , there were no indifferent to this proposal .
The meeting was attended by heads of local executive bodies, representatives of ethnocultural associations, intellectuals, non-governmental organizations, youth organizations, business structures and the garden, the Aktobe Department of Internal Policy reported.
samsung electronics central asia technologies are also used by the joint-stock company Transtelecom in designing the exhibition's information infrastructure.
The Congress has no analogues in the world, it is a platform for uniting the leaders of world and traditional religions and discussing global problems in society. congress is a platform that has no analogues in the world , where representatives and leaders of religious communities gather and discuss global issues .
The Japanese government also confirmed its participation in EXPO 2017.
Among the new directions is investment subsidies.
In this regard, it is very important for us to exchange new technologies, experts and knowledge, experience obtained from interaction with our partners.
Currently, 111 220-500 kV overhead transmission lines with a length of 2786.9 km and 95 equipment facilities of 220-500 kV substations have been repaired.
Thus, this year the Kazakh army was replenished with two hundred more qualified specialists of junior command staff.
It would be better to eliminate unequipped parking on the capital's square, bring green spaces closer to the buildings and put temporary furniture there, "said the ricardo marini.
Also e. Sukhanberdieva noted that by the end of 2015, 2 more new schools will be opened in the capital.
Since 2013, within the framework of the Center-East project, 1,018 km long (with the capital-usher), work has been underway on the capital-Pavlodar-Semipalatinsk part with a length of 509 km.
he also spoke about strengthening inter-parliamentary relations in the framework of bilateral and international parliamentary forums.
AD Korzhova reported that the Ministry of Finance is currently participating in a pilot project of functional review with the territorial divisions of Astana and Akmola region (along with the akimats of Astana and Akmola region).
national anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Based on the results of the meetings and the work of RBC, the head of state makes proposals for the implementation of specific economic policy measures for the current year and the medium term.
The World Freestyle Wrestling Championship XIII was held in Kazan.
In 2014, the difference between points was 7 points, this year - a little more than 1 point.
The event was attended by representatives of the British government, business and academic circles, heads of diplomatic missions.
we also discussed the completion of the Western Europe-Western China transport corridor project, as well as other conditions for infrastructure cooperation.
For this, monitoring and synthesis of judicial practice and judicial acts is important, "he concluded.
According to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the exchange rate of tenge will be formed depending on market demand.
We also held many meetings, important of which were negotiations with the president of the country and the heads of large American companies, "the head of state said.
Speaking about polymetallic structures, Weidun noted that agreements have been reached with large Kazakhstani companies for the supply of products, including Kazakhmys Corporation.
The bill provides for the creation of a special legal regime within the clearly established borders of the international financial center "capital."
According to him, it is envisaged to develop budget programs of state bodies by introducing a new format of the new strategic plan.
We study international experience in the field of protection of children's rights, in particular, at forums and conferences in Belgium, Tajikistan, Belarus. we investigate the international experience in this field , in particular , there were international conferences and forums in belgium , tajikistan and belarus .
icebreaker-2 is equipped with three fire pumps.
as a result, the total number of budget programmes decreased from 519 to 220.
improving the quality of public services - a constant tendentious situation, including in relation to 3 parties - a public service provider, a recipient and a controlling body. improving of public services - an ongoing process , interaction of three parties is important : provider of services , consumer and supervisory authority .
Sk Almatstroy LLP, which is engaged in the construction of heat, water supply and sewerage systems, recommended to increase the number of builders, equipment and special equipment.
the necessary parts for the assembly of the Tulpar-Talgo factory cars were delivered to the capital.
According to him, the book is devoted to the activities of Nursultan Nazarbayev and his balanced policy.
the main operator of all routes "ktz express" is the link of said supply chain.
The leadership of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan is always in the garden environment and explains the situation to the society, "said the Governor's Office.
The action was organized by the departments of youth policy, language development and the administrative police of the education department.
In the general elections, Kazakhstan rightly appreciated the merits of N. Nazarbayev and provided massive support to the direction of the head of state, "said K. Tokaev.
The control system is available on the company's official website, in the mykazpost mobile program and in the @ kazpostbot system, which will instantly report when changing the location of a parcel or letter in the famous telegram messenger.
we organize a platform of "adult friends," which conventionally shares its own life experience, knowledge, qualifications.
Nұrly zhol is the way to the future "and" Kazakh ethnocultural movement in modern Russia: experience, tasks, lessons "witnessed two" round tables. "
The head of the region instructed all city and district akimats, general defendants to develop a schedule for passing tests on the "castest" system for 2016-2020 and ensure its implementation.
however, the igil is ahead of al-Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra and other Islamist groups, and even some states, with its ability to wage information warfare.
the first is the basic package provided by the state of guaranteed medical care, funded from the republican budget.	the first - the basic package guaranteed by the state and financed from the national budget .	1,08
According to the law, representatives of the regional court should give tough instructions, legal identity should be preserved in each region of the country, "he said.
The first part of the anti-terrorist complex-2015 was held at the end of October this year on the basis of the Korla training center in the Xinjiang-Uygur Autonomous Region of China.
During this time, more than 350 military personnel of subordinate military units were examined as part of motorized rifle, tank, engineer-sapper platoons, mortar batteries and sniper pairs.
Currently, they are invited to Cannines Severans.
Secretary General of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States R. Gassanov.
we plan to launch this solar power plant in June this year.	as chairman of the board of  samruk-kazyna " jsc umirzak shukeyev noted , the commissioning of the solar power plant is planned for june this year .
the fight against corruption "for 2015-2025.
The presentation of the report takes place during very important events - 70 sessions of the UN General Assembly, World Human Rights Day, which will be held on December 10 under the motto of the UN General Assembly. the presentation of the report is being held at a time of major events , for example , the 70th session of the un general assembly and world human rights day , which will be held on december 10 under the auspices of the un general assembly .
During the meeting, the mayor of the city presented diplomas to the chairman of the Almaty branch of the public association "Kazakh Society of the Blind" Nina Zhukovskaya, the chairman of the board of the "Society of Erkits of the Disabled" of the Turksib region kenzhebai kudaibergen and the founder of the public fund "I love you, life" meruert suleimena.
destination areas, regiments and finishing lines, a penalty area and combat exercise areas.
In addition to the national television channels that show these competitions, our project has a great desire both in Russia and in Turkey, "said A. Shoraev.
newly invited performed oage-1 exercises (the first exercises of training shooting).	according to the ministry of defence , the recruits completed the exercise of uus-1 ( the first firing exercise training ) .	1,08
He also noted that the national economy of Kazakhstan has prepared a roadmap for the implementation of eidu proposals in Kazakhstan.	in addition , she noted the road map for the implementation of the oecd recommendations worked out by the ministry of national economy of kazakhstan .	1,08
Khan tent. "
now the applicant for refereeing is obliged to go through practice for a year, for which he will be specially released from work and allocated a scholarship.
Kazakhstan pilots will take part in this international competition for the first time, we will make every effort to show Kazakhstan at a decent level. kazakhstani pilots take part in the international competition , we will make every effort to show our skills and represent kazakhstan .
distinguished astronauts on behalf of Kazakhstanis and the President of Kazakhstan. dear astronauts , on behalf of all kazakhstanis and the president let me greet you .
According to him, issues of economic cooperation within the framework of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO and the eurozone are associated with new challenges and threats arising in the country's business community.
This year, the quality of education in the region amounted to 55.8%, which is 5.9% higher than last year.
The capital is the largest air carrier in Kazakhstan, and the memorandum signed today was the first step taken in the framework of our cooperation.
tank biathlon 2015 will be held from August 1 to 15 at the Alabino training center of the Moscow Region.
In addition, only the customer, contractor and technical control sign the acceptance certificates of the facility.
As the experience of developed countries shows, the field of education should become the main factor shaping state development, increasing competitiveness, economic growth and public harmony, "the minister said.
The frequent presence of official delegations is a reflection of the friendly relations of the two States. petre.
The telegram of the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov states that friendly relations between the peoples of the two countries for many years have been based on equality, respect and mutual support.
The Chamber ratified the agreement between Kazakhstan and Japan on the promotion and protection of investments.
It is important that there are many enterprises where 20-50 people work.
At the end of the rating are Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Venezuela.
In our plans to increase oil production to 2 million barrels per day by 2020, thus, we will enter the top ten largest oil and gas industries in the world, "said F. Mamonov.
General Director of Haiyuan Equipment expressed readiness for the implementation of the project.
in Kazakhstan there is an active growth of parcels from online stores. there is a strong growth in parcels ordered from online stores in kazakhstan .
The company also continues to implement the policy of social responsibility.
in addition, Kazakhstan proposes to jointly develop and sign a pact on water and environmental security in central Asia.
decreased production of food, beverages, tobacco, refining and motor vehicle products.
this is the brightest day in the field of education in our country.
the exhibition will also give a powerful impetus to our fruitful cooperation. the exhibition also will give a powerful impetus to our fruitful cooperation .
During the presentation, the minister explained the changes to the draft labor code.
we plan to change the structure and revise the principle of remuneration. we plan to change the structure , to review the payment principle .
In addition, K.Nskenbayev noted that Kazakhstan has an individual program for young families.
today's meeting is a sign of our desire, friendship and cooperation in peace and harmony. "
the ratings of the Baiterek holding are at the same level as the sovereign ratings of Kazakhstan, which includes its status as a public sector company, tight control by the state and an important role in the implementation of the state's economic policy.
the largest number of students is the school of humanities and social sciences, the school of science and technology, the engineering school, the higher school of education, the higher school of public policy, the higher school of business.
the launch of a new production is planned at the end of this year.
each country represents its national interests and supports domestic producers. each country supports its domestic producers .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the presence of reserves not yet used to further increase mutual trade.
Currently, Astana Expo-2017 is individually working on the content of the exhibition and is embarking on a full-fledged improvement of the structure of thematic pavilions.
He also stressed that the new environmental policy "nұrly zhol" proposed by the Head of State is "a long road to a new era that will lead to an eternal country under the flag of independence of the Kazakh state."
Currently, work is underway to improve the industrial zone, water, gas and electricity systems are being implemented.
Following the meeting, the members of the commission identified candidates who will be submitted to the head of state for consideration for awarding.
Today, the "judicial cabinet" system is very actively used, he explained.
the main purpose of this program is to create favorable conditions for the functioning of the railway industry and legal capabilities, the development of national passenger and freight transport.
You hope for a noble dream and loyalty to our country, "the message said.
we live in very difficult times, so in the sphere of religion we must seek wisdom. we live in troubled times , in the troubled world , so in relation to religion , we should seek wisdom .
popularization of consolidated lending will bring to a qualitatively new level financing of industrial projects requiring capital in Kazakhstan, technically and technologically complex in terms of implementation. popularization of the syndicated loans will bring a new level of financing in kazakhstan capital , technically and technologically sophisticated in the implementation of industrial projects .
now we have enough tribal animals received in our country.
Therefore, with the support of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, this project has been implemented.
In order to fulfill the order of the head of state, the national bank will implement a set of measures to transition to inflation targeting in the middle term, "the head of government said.
state symbols play a special role not only in the life of the state, but also in every person. the national symbols play a special role in the life of every person , not just of the state .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the results of the studies are of great importance for preserving and popularizing the spiritual and cultural heritage of the Turkic world.
Following the consultations, priority areas of medium-term cooperation between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Israel are planned.
The list of main tasks of the event includes attracting foreign investors, developing production assets, opening new projects.
capital - baiterek monument
we will never forget that.
in order to prevent possible threats in central Asia against the background of current international and regional tensions.
Today "ktz express" together with our colleagues realize the first experience in transporting multimedia cars from Spain.
According to N. Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has not yet fully disclosed interest for domestic and foreign investors on a scale of agricultural interest.
and in the Russian reservoirs of the Caspian at that moment our sailors will demonstrate their skill in the sea biathlon on the rocket and artillery ships "Saryarka" and "Ural" and the Marine Brigade "Western."
130 of the 137 projects planned in the industrialization map are operating at full capacity. 130 out of 137 projects have successfully started work .
The purpose of the event is to create the knowledge of readers about the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the state image of Kazakhstan, as well as the formation of an active civic position and legal identity that brings up respect for the law of the father.
According to R.Sarsembayeva, in 2014, women entrepreneurs created 795 jobs, which is 30% of the total number of jobs in small and medium-sized businesses.
for example, they are aimed at creating an effective management system in enterprises.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to India Bolat Sarsenbaev, Secretary General of the Indian Trade and Industrial Federation Didar Singh, Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Shambhu Kumaran spoke at the event.
This category includes enterprises implementing innovative and advanced projects. these are companies , that implement innovative and breakthrough projects .
According to the agency, the production capacity of the enterprise is 10.8 thousand tons per year.
this will allow our fans to see games of a new quality level, "the telegram says.
eradicating corruption will contribute to strengthening the foundation of our people and state, our independence.
the average score is 78.4.
therefore, the relevant competent services, including the consumer protection department, the health department, should provide an appropriate system for monitoring this issue, "said akim.
In addition, 15-20 oil and gas, mineral and metal producing States participate in the political dialogue of the Development Centre of Kazakhstan on natural resources-based development as co-chair of the Oil Funds for Revenue Distribution and Stabilization division in order to exchange long-term knowledge and experience of development based on natural resources extraction.
The reforms announced by the Head of State are effective and timely measures in the context of global political and economic instability.
"- said Aslan Arystanov, a student of the rehabilitation military department named after Shesenov.
business carries out an important social mission in employment, being the foundation of the middle class and the pillar of civil society.
we support the opening of a new production with the participation of German investors, "said B. Kulov.
I highly appreciate the leadership qualities of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions held today. i appreciate the vision of n.nazarbayev , the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions .
Bulgaria and the eu actively support Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, and in the future you can count on our support.
Residents and guests of the capital will have the opportunity to see the ballet of the Neapolitan theater San Carlo "life" in honor of Capital Day on July 5-6.
According to akim, fisheries and forestry require unification and automation.
it presents a map of Kazakhstan and detailed information about the regions of the country, its nature and climatic conditions, the most beautiful places of nature.
a declaration will also be adopted by the 5th V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
no, I prohibit using the money of the national fund to build new facilities, as well as to support, subsidize poorly performing enterprises.
Recall that the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an important part of the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" put forward by the President of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that the number of banks participating in the program has doubled compared to last year - from 4 to 8.
this is Caspian Plus LLP, the pasta factory of Novo-Alzhansky Mill LLP, Eurasian Metal Company LLP and Asbi Sat Group LLC and Ice Plus LLP.
he is a very experienced specialist, "said A. Lukashenko.
Kazakhstan is a unique place for coordinating the activities of the United Nations in the alliance of civilizations, "he said.
- Framework loan agreement between Kamyshinsky Mining and Processing Plant LLP and the Chinese Export and Import Bank;
This year Kazakhstan entered the second five-year plan of the Program. this year kazakhstan started the second five year plan of spiid .
graduates of the initial military training program study military-patriotic education, undergo military-professional and sports training, learn the skills and methods of studying specific military disciplines.
state budget funds by sources of financing are 28.8%, own funds of enterprises and organizations - 54.8%, bank loans - 5.1%, other borrowed funds - 11.3%.
passengers will turn from ground transport to air assistance, "he said.
Recall that last year, the Young Guard released 64 graduates.
metallurgy, mechanical engineering, chemistry, furniture and light industry.
Minister of Energy and Infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Commission noted that the Kazakh people connect their well-being and future with the fruitful activities of their leader.
The meeting discussed the implementation of the national plan, the strengthening of civic identity, the role of the people in strengthening unity, the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the assemblies of the two countries.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov took part in the lecture.
Kazakhstan is a state with great potential in this area. kazakhstan is one of the few countries with a huge potential in this industry .
Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU is the result of great joint integration work. the accession of kyrgyzstan is the result of great work on the integration .
is one of the pillars of the modern world economic order.
Recall that in Kazakhstan "project hope" began its program to fight tuberculosis in 1993.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the number of people in need of cardiac surgery has recently reached 10-15 thousand people.
In turn, the Secretary of State of the Romanian Foreign Ministry thanked Kazakhstanis for taking care of everything living in the country.
this will allow transporting 1.5 million tons of wheat per year.
the parties expressed confidence that the results of the current meetings will determine new tasks and directions, enriching bilateral cooperation with new content.
lim siong guan called Kazakhstan the advanced state of the post-Soviet space in the areas of public administration and economic reforms.
As a result, 4 thousand hectares of land were returned this year.
In 1979-1990, being the Prime Minister of Great Britain, the young president of the republic sees qualities corresponding to leaders. "
According to the Department of Statistics, according to the results of work in January-September of this year, it is leading in the field of agriculture, investment, construction and the consumer price index.
To date, contracts have been signed with companies: hewlettpackard, dbschenker, toyota, fesco, bravis to conduct transit container trains through the Khorgos-East Gate and Altynkol station.
due to the introduction of new technologies, the number of electronic services in the social sphere is increasing every year.
we took the flag first, raised the flag and won this tactical game.
it will become the core of the financial infrastructure of central Kazakhstan, and then the financial hub of the entire Central Asian region.
r. energy of the future. "
One of them is the limited liability partnership "orda glass ltd," which was recently engaged in the manufacture of double-glazed windows presented in the Kyzylorda region.
as a result of these cases, we have seen an increase in investments in the manufacturing industry, which is significantly higher than investments in traditional industries, "he said.
the first is to reduce technological vision in traditional industries. the first is the reduction of technological backwardness in traditional industries .
More than 50 masters from Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan, Lower Tagil, Orenburg, Nevyansk of Russia, as well as Aktobe region, along with the city of Uralsk, West Kazakhstan region, the city of Arkalyk, Kostanay region, the capital, Almaty, Karaganda will take part in the fair.
Within the framework of the working trip to Milan, the Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 UK Akhmetzhan Yessimov and the Commissioner of Expo-2017, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan rapil Zhoshybayev held a number of meetings with the General Commissioners of the national sections of baa, Senegal, gray-leon and gabon.
In turn, he highly appreciated Kazakhstan's contribution to the consideration and resolution of topical issues on the international policy agenda.
Such tournaments contribute to the development of national sports, "said the senior coach of the Republican Shooting Federation.
the ceremony of awarding the winners of the first republican contest "Military Dynasty" will take place on this platform.
Recall that under the state program "Nұrly zhol" in the field of roads it is planned to spend 2.4 trillion tenge.
The bill reflects the main directions of the country's socio-economic development, "the minister said.
B. Saparbayev noted the stability of common prices and a moderate social situation.
training sessions for military personnel began in military units.
In addition, this situation did not allow entrepreneurs to carry out the planned expansion.
plant and animal life, land degradation, disposal of solid domestic and industrial waste, exploration and mining, environmental emissions and others.
this is a huge work that is of great importance not only for our country, but also for the future energy of the world, "said A. Yessimov.
The participant of the jubilee family project noted the quality and importance of the competition.
The event was attended by such figures as Kabdesh Zhumadilov, Rollan Seisenbaev, Tregelds of Shormans, Potassium, Nesipbek Aitula, Ulukbek Yesdaulets and others.
these reforms are aimed at improving the system of public administration, ensuring the rule of law, stimulating economic growth, strengthening Kazakhstan's unity, ensuring transparency and accountability of the state.
industrialization of the country will solve the issues of employment of this category of citizens, "he said.
I always said that prepare for competition, today I say this, prepare for such technological modernization, "the president said.
As a result of the work carried out, out of 7,970 citizens who applied, 4,892 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 1,694 people received applications to change their details, 1,384 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
we became "white" passenger trains with a proposal to launch an express postal service.
The head of state also noted that both countries are closely connected not only by economic, but also by cultural and educational relations.
According to him, Kazakhstan's initiatives on the world stage are based on positive interethnic relations in the country.
The Chairman of the Senate thanked his Belarusian counterpart for participating in the international conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, warm wishes to Kazakhstan and the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Last year, 5.9 billion tenge was allocated for this area, which made it possible to finance 2,166 projects.
People's Academy of Green Technologies and Practices. "
this is the first solar power plant in Kazakhstan that gives capacity on a production scale, "said Sir Chakrabarti, President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The bill provides for amendments and additions to the budget code and the law "On local government and self-government in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
At the same time, we cannot but talk about the role of the President of Kazakhstan, "said the journalist of the Al-Arabiya television channel.
thanks to the policies of the president and the government, we have good conditions for introducing business and innovation.
now we have the automotive industry, railway engineering, the production of basic chemical products, the production of titanium, the production of rare metals, "said L.Sadykov.
To this end, I want to warn regional leaders about the need to carefully look at the projects being carried out under the program, "he said.
the book tells in an understandable language about the identity of the founder of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the first president of the country - Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In January-July 2015, communications companies of the city provided services in the amount of 81706.9 million tenge.
the company implements Internet access services and major innovative projects. "
standards and documents of state symbols associated with the formation of state symbols. when the same standards of state symbols and documents that are associated with the adoption of the state symbols , they presented to the public .
graduated from the Kazakh State Academy of Management with honors. he graduated from the academy of public administration of kazakhstan with honors .
According to him, the business case will have educational materials in such areas as banking, macroeconomic policy, risk management, personnel management, group activities.
Now we plan to hold a summit on the most important Shu issues in Hainan Province, "said Cao Jianming.
in conclusion, P. Poroshenko wished the head of state good health, inexhaustible strength, new successes in fruitful state activity, and the friendly Kazakh people - well-being and well-being.
According to the national company, the initial meeting began in the mode of a teleconference with a team of subsidiaries and dependent enterprises of the electric power holding.
Thus, in the nomination "Song of Dombra," the jury was headed by the People's Artist of the Kazakh SSR, laureate of the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan, professor of the Baibosyn Kurat.
So, this year, 9% more was allocated for education than last year, or 45.4 billion tenge.
work is underway on the reconstruction and expansion of tez-1 and tez-2, as well as the construction of a new tez-3.
we are engaged in the processing of meat and milk. we think that processing of meat and milk is priority area .
we have recently adopted a new strategy for our community.
For us, the long experience of the joint venture is important. for us , it is of particular interest to study the experience of cpc .
17.7 thousand women took part in public works.
The event was attended by representatives of the state corporation Roscosmos, Russian and foreign organizations and enterprises of the space industry, ambassadors of countries near and far abroad, the first heads of state bodies of the Russian Federation and other guests of honor, including the American astronaut Thomas Stafford.
According to the expert, in this regard kaznex invest has introduced two methods of supporting domestic producers for producers as part of the second need for industrialization.
It is expected that in September of this year two more temporary storage warehouses will be commissioned.
joint chemical company has reached an agreement on financing and implementation of the project "Production of glyphosate and phosphorus trichloride" in Zhambyl region.
I just discussed with the Amano doctor a new area where we can develop our partnership. i 've just discussed a new area where we can try to develop our partnership with dr. amano .
the capital is waiting for competitions with leading world teams in football.
In general, through the capital you can enter the markets of central Asia, as well as neighboring Russia, China.
in the nomination "Best Goods for the Population," a 1st degree diploma was received by the Construction of a New Century LLP.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of solving the problem of food security.
The center employs 180 specialists, of which 33 are doctors.
19.9 thousand new jobs are planned to be created at these enterprises.
During the meeting, I. Adyrbekov drew the attention of the interlocutor to the key issues of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" and noted that the program and initiative of the President of China Xi jinping "one belt, one path" reflect the general prospects for long-term interaction.
the second package consists of supporting investment projects at all stages of implementation, holding a forum of venture investments and other events.
Within the framework of the Year of Veterans, dozens of solemn events were held in the CIS countries.
On June 4, the city library No. 8 will hold a conversation with residents of the capital "State Symbols of Kazakhstan," and in library No. 2 - a civic lesson "Symbols of the country - the spirit of the country."
I thank the white employees of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content, which conducts such an action.
if women are abandoned by their relatives, our psychologists consult not only women, but also their families. if relatives , parents turn their backs upon women , our psychologists work not only with mothers , but also with their families .
therefore, energy sources, along with traditional energy sources, are considered as an economic alternative, "he said.
During the meeting, key areas of the council's activities were discussed, as well as the main plans for the further development of Kazakhstan, covering five institutional reforms.
we talked a lot with the leadership of the federation about the development of Kazakhstan biathlon.
choir director, artistic director of the chamber choir of the capital's state philharmonic gulmira kuttykadamova.
In addition, Kazakhstan received the moral and political right to demand decisive steps from other states in order to achieve nuclear disarmament, "said the chairman of the Senate.
According to the akim, the main goal of the district is to provide the population with everything necessary.
of which 3 directions reached the international level, "said the head of the department for the fight against drug trafficking of the Ministry of the Interior.
as part of the trip, expedition members visit historical, cultural, architectural monuments and collect information about them.
The meeting discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the meeting with Nursultan Nazarbayev and the President of China Xi Jinping.
The press conference will be attended by the head of the information and publishing project "Қyldyz қto in Kazakhstan," an expert political scientist Daniyar Ashimbayev.
The Government of Kazakhstan is taking measures to increase capacity in areas that process the investment climate.
We are currently looking for other markets for goods. at the moment we are looking for alternative markets for products .
Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nazarbayev University signed a memorandum with Cambridge University.
The Kazakh delegation included the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of the Kazatomprom national nuclear center, etc.
The goal of the Almaty process is to jointly solve the pressing problems of refugees and international migration in a regional format and a global perspective.
The Chairman of the working group on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO noted that during the negotiation process with Finnish Ambassador Vesa Himan, Kazakhstan adopted more than 50 new laws and amended 10 international agreements that were adopted within the framework of the customs union and the Eurasian Economic Union.
During the meeting, the prospects and state of Kazakh culture, including crafts, were discussed.
"A few days earlier, on November 9, the company was 16 years old, and today the company has a large extensive telephone network connecting both large cities and the most remote areas.
Kazakhstan, like other states, does not welcome violence and is actively working in this direction with anti-terrorist structures, "K. Massimov said.
in the future, this project will increase the range of hydrocarbon products. in the future , we think that this project will increase the number of nomenclature of coal products .
This is used in many cities, and we are only studying the experience, "said the mayor of the city.
One of the main problems of the Kurchum region is the bridge. one of the problems in kurchum district - the construction of the crosswalk .
For my part, I am ready to make every effort to ensure that these relations reach a new level, "the author writes.
Kazakhstan ranks 6th in terms of natural resources.
Therefore, we warned all our akims that prices for food products produced in Kazakhstan should not rise, sales here should not be expensive, "the President said.
the military unit 35748 (unit commander colonel bekzat zhumin), military unit 32039 (unit commander major abay alibekov) and military unit 16194 (unit commander wishing abdrakhmans) became excellent students.
of these, 1,062 gas stations, 1,422 trading and catering places, 130 hotels, 273 maintenance stations and 141 parking lots.
During the years of independence, a transition was made to the top 20 countries of the world in terms of oil and gas reserves.
therefore, I invite you to take part in this process, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
Thanks to the Government of Kazakhstan, we will create a consulting tool for agribusiness, launch innovative programs.
This year, representatives of the United American States, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Turkish Republic, the Tajikistan Republic, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Nepalese Federal Democratic Republic, the French Republic and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan will take part in the exercises as observers, the statement said.
I want to once again note the 88th step of the project to involve society in the society of universal labor on the basis of the implementation of the infrastructure program and the second five-year plan of industrialization.
Governor of the region visited the medical center "Avicenna," where the department of surgery was presented.
The international expert committee of the program has identified 7 best Kazakhstani and 2 foreign startup groups, which in October 2015 will go to the program of accelerated development in the silicon valley.
The purpose of the action is to show the opportunities of disabled children, "he added.
The Development Fund summed up the results of the first half of 2015 at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan Sagintayev.
The program will feature the most famous artists of Belarus, Spain, Cuba, Latvia, Russia, Ukraine and the country.
the agreement indicates the dates of their opening for each of them, which should be no later than 2020, "said the First Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan during the presentation of the bill on the victory of Kassymbek.
In October 2014, an agreement was signed on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the EAEU from January 2, 2015 and from December 2014.
all actions are aimed at improving the lives of children, "added Mr. Kulsarieva.
According to the professor, people, that is, tourists, go to the zone where they will be met well.
By October 1, 2015, 10,448 new jobs were created in the region, or 97% of the annual plan. as of october 1 , 2015 the region created 10,448 new jobs , or 97 % of the annual plan .
this is an innovation in Kazakhstan.
the first bill deals with the status of a judge, as well as an increase in wages and pensions. the first bill - on the status of judges , which provides higher salary and sufficient pensions .
In 2014, these indicators amounted to 3124 and 192, respectively, "said A.Tastanova.
their main goal is to develop national languages, preserve the history and traditions of the people of Kazakhstan, strengthen friendship and unity between the people of Kazakhstan.
you must contribute to the promotion of this project in order to attract young people for your part, "said Adilbek Jaksybekov.
962.1 million tenge are allocated annually for educational programs for 2015-2017.
Our main task is to implement the policy of our state. our main task is to carry out the policy of the head of state .
it's part of our lives.
In the future, we will cooperate fruitfully with Kazakh partners, "the commander of the troops and air forces of the Republic of Belarus, Major General Oleg, said at the end of the meeting.
Financial support from the state, the Baiterek holding will allow the plant to receive export-import financing through the kdb network for a long time and fulfill all the tasks set by the head of state to create innovative industries, "said the president of NTMK asem mamutova.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, wishing the first official visit of Mr. Poroshenko to the country, noted that this visit will contribute to improving economic cooperation and softening positions on regional and international issues.
our goal is to help the Kazakh enterprise get used to the new procedures, get the maximum benefit from WTO membership.
In 2015, 173 schools were commissioned, 250 were overhauled.
I think that as part of their visit, a unified work will be established. as a result of their trip , i hope , we will collaborate .
At the end of the week, knowledge was confirmed, all cadets completed an internship.
Since the beginning of the year, 8 fairs have been held, as a result of which more than 500 people have been employed.
In his report, he described in detail the development of roads implemented under the state program "Nұrly zhol."
arch - Shubarkul construction line. in terms of the project on the line arkalyk - shubarkol , it is necessary to upgrade the entire station .
in his congratulations, Acting President of the Republic of Tatarstan R. Minnikhanov.
The northern step residential complex is a unique project of a high-tech architect who received the prize of the international association of architects.
however, in this direction, our efforts should be implemented jointly and consistently, "added K. Massimov.
The interlocutors highly appreciated the importance of this international institution in the collective discussion and adoption of rational measures in addressing the issues of combating terrorism, extremism, drug and arms trafficking, the types of cross-border crime themselves, as well as illegal migration.
To attract business structures to implement PPP projects, seminars will be held through the Business Roadmap 2020.
Among them, 4 projects worth 48.1 billion tenge will be launched this year with the creation of 143 jobs.
Issues of the bank's participation in the development of various sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan, including the agricultural sector, were also considered.
Now we can say that the products produced in Kazakhstan are popular in the CIS countries, "said A. Arinov.
the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation within the framework of the five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state opens up great opportunities for deepening business ties.
Kazavtodor previously stated that "the national operator is considering which streets to make paid, we transfer them to local executive bodies, but only in the cities of Almaty and the capital."
this is done in order to carefully consider each industry and keep it registered, "said Dr. Rozhin.
It is noted that the "river munaigas" produced 4% more than in the same period of 2014, that is, 2,722 thousand tons (111 thousand barrels per day), which is associated with the geological and technical work aimed at improving the efficiency of wells in production.
Minister of Economic Integration Zhanat Aitzhanova will take part in the event.
this rating showed that the development of entrepreneurship has become one of the main goals of the Government of Kazakhstan. this rating says that the development of business has become in fact a real practical priority of the government of kazakhstan .
our main goal is the spiritual education of children. our main task is the moral and spiritual education of the younger generation .
cooperation in our format is based on strength and stability.
According to him, the qualification of a person increases during training.
at the first stage, applicants pass tests for knowledge of the law and competencies, in the future interviews are held for the presence of professional orientation, "she said. akhmetzhanov.
The parties agreed on the planned agreement on the construction of the center by the end of October this year before Nazarbayev's visit to the country.
together with the iaea, work is underway at our uranium mining and processing enterprises to control and automate natural uranium, "he said.
the capital is a city that was born before the eyes of one generation.
in this regard, special attention was paid to the strengthening of constitutional legality, the creation of the necessary conditions for the sustainable development of the state, the preservation of domestic political stability and the unity of society.
including within the framework of the program "Celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, cultural heritage" 120 archaeological and architectural monuments were restored, 600 books on the history of Kazakhstan were published. "
According to him, the deputies fully support the economic model of integration proposed by the leader of the nation.
I recently sympathized with the UN Secretary General at a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
It is assumed that this year the background in the region will be 99.1%, and next year - 100.7%.
The Head of State noted that despite the difficult situation in world markets, our countries are successfully developing trade and economic cooperation, Kazakhstan has invested more than $1.5 billion in the development of various sectors of Kyrgyzstan.
Today, the first meeting of this union was held in the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
According to him, recognition at the international level is not easy.
therefore, for me, as for these children, everything is new.
I want to tell all Kazakhstanis about the need to purchase domestic goods, including shoes and costumes marked "made in Kazakhstan."
In general, repair work on the national electricity network is carried out in accordance with the schedule. in general , the work is on schedule , all repair works are about to be completed .
with the increase of Kazakhstan by 42 positions in the ranking of global competition. i congratulate on the improvement of the rating of kazakhstan , now kazakhstan is on the 42nd place .
The congratulation of the President of the Republic of Moldova Nicolae Timofti states that the experience and leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev became the main factor in the successful implementation of important changes in Kazakhstan and strengthening the country's position in the international arena.
During the meeting, the state of Kazakh-Turkish cooperation, the main directions of its development in various areas were discussed.
the overwhelming majority of hiring permits were issued in the third (professionals) and fourth (skilled workers) categories, amounting to 15,122 and 11,534, respectively.
According to the expert, the population living in Kazakhstan is a citizen of one state - Kazakhstan.
We support the active investment of the economy of this region and the implementation of a policy of joint counteracting the modern threats of Central Asian states, "the minister emphasized.
Thus, in the first half of 2015, the courts considered 12 thousand 777 criminal cases and sentenced them, which is 18% more than the same period last year. so , in the first half of 2015 , the courts considered 12,777 criminal cases , which is 18 % more than the same period last year .
According to him, in general, the nation should be competitive.
- memorandum of understanding on technical cooperation between the ministry of white and Indian means of communication "National company" azastan tem_r zhola";
now we have a case ahead of us. now the business is going well .
Recall that the Regional Coordination Council for the city of Uralsk in 2013-2015 approved 155 projects worth 19.8 billion tenge, 1079 jobs were created.
our tanks began powerfully and advanced, but this does not end with the "tank biathlon."
The competition participants were guided by the new recommendations of the American Heart Association (ana American heart association) and the European Resuscitation Council (erc European Resuscitation Council) in the provision of emergency medical care.
Abdullah II stressed that Jordan attaches great importance to the development of bilateral relations, and also noted that the Head of State N.A.A. Nazarbayev wishes Nazarbayev and friendly people of Kazakhstan.
Turkic countries recognize your leadership in ensuring the unity and development of not only Kazakhstan, but the entire Turkic world, the telegram says.
this is one of the main themes of the summit.
we must double the cooperation of the Turkic States. we are turkic-speaking states are to strengthen our cooperation .
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev and Kazakhstan have become a model for peace in the sphere of global security and continue to work on the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium on their territory, "S. Nann said.
The commission, which is a consultative and advisory body under the President of Kazakhstan, considers proposals for the approval and liquidation of state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, draft laws on awards and other regulatory legal acts, recommendations on awarding and other issues.
During the visit, meetings are scheduled with the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Queen Elizabeth II, as well as heads of leading British companies.
In 2016, all first-graders will go into the updated structure of education, in 2017 - students in grades 2-5, 2018 3, 3-9, and by 2020 the structure of education will be completely updated, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
according to him, state-owned companies do not allow the private sector to fully develop, since they are under the care of the state.
In addition, the central boiler house for 215.1 million tenge will be reconstructed in the serum district.
in conclusion, vi felipe wished peace and well-being to the Kazakhstani people.
At the same time, K.abuseitov noted that the signing of an agreement on the creation of an abub is an instrument for the development of international cooperation in the field of nuclear energy and nuclear non-proliferation.
The opening ceremony was attended by the governor of the province of Mersin, the mayor of the city of burkhanet kozhamaz, deputies of the Turkish parliament, the ambassador of Kazakhstan to Turkey, representatives of the socio-political, academic and business circles of the region.
One of the important components of institutional reforms is the language of a united future. "
According to him, the total volume of the Kazakhstan Move tournament around the world exceeds half a billion.
this suggests that the state is ending and the private sector is emerging, that it is not responsible for the aggravation of borders, and therefore does not compete with the private sector, which before that was a serious issue.	we limit the power of the state in the business-life , we are reducing the number and volume of securities , which are necessary to obtain business licenses , by 60 % , and also we limited time to receive a response from the state to 10-20 days ,  - sagdiyev said .
The round table was attended by companies in the field of transport, logistics, equipment production, agriculture and education.
after completing their task, we opened accreditation, the automaker collects structures by a peugeot machine, by the end of the year the "agricultural holding" indicator will also reach two, "he said.
The main priority of the budget policy is saving budget resources, rational use of the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan and improving the efficiency of the public service, the Minister said.
Three applicants have a business plan, three more are pending. "
To do this, it is necessary to realize the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," which our ancestors spoke about, "he said.
participation in the business forum of Presidents Nursultan Nazarbayev and Petro Poroshenko determines the need to establish close economic ties between Kazakhstan and Ukraine, "said B. Sagintayev.
In particular, Kazakhstan has ensured the exchange of price stability and exchange rate stability.
According to the regional department for the coordination of employment and social programs, 41,851 people or 115% of the annual plan have been employed since the beginning of the year.
Astana conference on the use of information and technology in the field of social security of the population coincided with the period of changing the democratic, economic, technological potential of the Maso countries (international association of social security), "said Secretary of State of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova.
In particular, the program has 3 important areas: reducing inequality and improving human development, increasing and strengthening the innovation capacity of state institutions, strengthening international and regional cooperation.
according to Development Bank of Kazakhstan and Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC, additional agreements have been concluded with second-tier banks aimed at ensuring targeted and effective spending of funds allocated from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to overcome these difficulties together and take a new path of development, "the head of state said.
Enhancing legal cooperation in the exchange of information, experience and expertise.
in particular, the prospects of intensifying Kazakh-Pakistani cooperation in the investment sector, the energy sector, ank, as well as the possibility of using the transit transport potential of the two countries were considered.
The President of the Pakistani Islamic Republic of Hussein sent congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on behalf of all the people and on his own behalf.
The speaker also recalled that at the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan party, the head of state noted that administrative state activity depends on the political level.
we cooperate with a number of international financial institutions in the implementation of major programmes. we work with a number of international financial institutions in the framework of the implementation of key programs .
funding of banks is aimed at lending to projects in the field of animal husbandry. funding of banks is carried out mainly for lending of projects in the livestock sector .
the planned measures provide for amendments to a number of legislative acts, approval of the volumes of the vertical stake, the search for investors, "he continued.
The Deputy Prime Minister recalled that this year the government made a number of changes to the obligations of the head of state.
- for me reporting state - open holding of meetings of any level.
During the lesson, issues of international humanitarian law are brought to the attention of representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross.
in order to fulfill this task: providing, on a priority basis, employment of unemployed, self-employed citizens and low-income people with infrastructure projects implemented within the framework of state and sectoral programs.
There are about 10 children's villages in the country and their number continues to grow, "he said.
At the same time, the conditions for working with nuclear materials through the legislative base will be strengthened, "said B. Sadykov.
Particular attention was paid to the transition to a three-tier judicial system, the creation of a specialized panel on investment affairs at the Supreme Court and an international advisory council.
today is a really very important day - the Kazakh arrival of President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko and the economic forum, the event is dedicated to the resumption of economic, business, cultural relations not only within the framework of the visit, but also within the framework of the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan 2050 and the Strategy of Ukraine 2020, "said Mr. Zhubko.
The Constitution is a nationwide idea issued in the letter of the law. the modern constitution is a national idea embodied in the law .
we look forward to this agreement because it will expand our collaboration and bring it together in research and innovation.
The developer of the project is the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
provides moral and material assistance to women in the "mother's house."
our first failure is architecture (information service model). the main thing we start with - the information service model .
program of the second five-year plan of industrialization. we see that the competition is tougher and investment activity is weaker .
According to the President of Kazakhstan, according to paired data, by 2050 the number of people on Earth will exceed 9 billion people, so one of the urgent problems of the global agenda is the preservation of this billion.
As of June 1, 2015, 85.4 billion tenge was spent (including 44 billion tenge from the national fund) or 32% was spent.
There were also 2 tranches of 50 billion and 85 billion tenge - support for existing industries and an increase in export volumes.
innovative projects were presented in the festival.
in the grain industry increased by 35.7 thousand hectares, grain - by 122.6 thousand hectares, oilseeds - up to 336.4 thousand hectares.
The event was held in the diamond-Tashkent-Termese part of the Western Europe-Western China international transport corridor.
Also during the round table, events in Syria, international terrorism, the main goal of sustainable development, the migration crisis in Europe, climate change were discussed.
Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Deputy Minister of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria Boni Petrinova.
After lunch, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a number of bilateral meetings with the heads of the Russian delegation and heads of delegations of other participating countries.
on the same day, in order to further develop the parliamentary diplomacy of the two countries, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the deputies of the Bundestag - members of the Germany-Central Asia parliamentary group.
I work as a journalist in my specialty in the newspaper Rudny Altai.
in accordance with the competition program, it is necessary to pass several tested standards for the laying, orientation and military topography of landing parachutes (walking on the sight in the daytime), military medical training.
the construction of roads for the maintenance of the internal infrastructure of the cedar recreation zone has begun.
according to him, in the 21st century Eurasia will become one of the powerful poles of economic development.
From the beginning of next year, we will begin to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
Recall that in the capital from September 16 to 17, jury members and viewers will choose a young man speaking on behalf of our country at the 1st international competition of children's songs "Balaturkvizion-Kazakhstan," which will be held in Istanbul.
for example, such issues and topics as "the place of the indigenous civilization of Kazakh culture," "The Kazakh Khanate and its cities," "M.dulati Kazakh Khanate" were considered.
today we took part in a biology lesson conducted by an English language owner. today we have visited the biology lesson , which has been given by a native speaker .
Now the winners are preparing for the World Cup.
B. Saparbayev noted the stability of prices and the normal social situation.
this year marks the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. as you know , the year of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , the 20th anniversary of the constitution , the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate are celebrated this year .
During the meeting, issues of strengthening bilateral relations in the trade, economic, fuel, energy and agro-industrial complex were discussed.
To date, construction has been completed and the plant has been launched.
As a teacher, I say that the competition is thought out in time and is needed. this competition brings people and families together .
as part of the tour, children will be able to visit the London Museum, the Greenwich Observatory piano, the Cambridge Science Festival, and the firetech children's scientific camp, "Salimov said.
This year, more than 70 events will be held on Capital Day, all at the international level.
I am sure that the duathlon capital will become a good tradition of our city.
urns, benches, "green," on the territory of which there are small architectural forms, included sports and children's playgrounds.
work in this direction will follow the example of New Zealand companies fonterra and arla dat, through the development of cooperative production in rural areas.
In total, about 500 people took part in the work.
we spent credit funds on restructuring and returned to the bank, "Ibrahim Arystanbaev, director of Abk-target LLP, said in an exclusive interview with strategy2050.kz.
By the end of the year, the remaining volume will be handed over, "said the vice minister.
It is noted that the document was signed by the chairman of the board of Baiterek kuandyk bishimbayev and the chairman of the board of directors of the citic group chang zhenmin with the participation of the leaders of Kazakhstan and China.
Special attention in the region is paid to the development of the tourism sector. special attention is given to development in the tourism industry .
During the event, the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region and the German company cube engineering gmbh signed a memorandum on cooperation in the field of renewable energy.
in the first year he studies the basics of military affairs and discipline in his specialty, and in the second year he begins to accumulate military experience.
Last year, as part of such charity events, we collected 288 thousand tenge and were able to help 5 mothers, "T. cousin assured.
our chinitsin-duisburg "in refrigerated containers as part of a container train in winter, computer equipment of the famous company" hewlett-packard "was transported.
about assigning a.a. Aymbet honorary title "pilot-cosmonaut of Kazakhstan"
35 thousand people are currently engaged in physical education and sports in these clubs, of which about two thousand are residents of rural areas, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
The meeting was attended by deputies of the Majilis, representatives of public service agencies, employees of the anti-corruption agency, representatives of the national economy, political parties.
Governor of Pavlodar region met with the delegate of China under the chairmanship of the Bozumbayev rope china machinery engineering corporation van Liwen.
therefore, it is possible that he will be able to receive extreme assistance from the government in time under the necessary conditions, "s & p said in a press release.
their interest in sports awakens to our victories.
we are here for cooperation in the field of building materials, chemical products, heat supply, "said Peter Guzovsky, director of the Polish Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
In addition, funding for crop production will be carried out under the greenhouse program.
Kazakhstan received an invitation to take part in the annual cultural international festival, which will be held next year (every year from April to May), which gives an opportunity to show cultural art (cinema, theater speeches, folklore and gastronomy).
In measuring the quality of judicial work, the level of satisfaction with judicial activities, we were guided by the methodological recommendations of the European Commission on the effectiveness of justice, an international consortium for the improvement of courts. to measure the level of satisfaction with court services , the quality of work of judges , we were guided by the methodological recommendations of the european commission for the efficiency of justice , and an international consortium to improve the courts .
Issues of execution of instructions given at the enlarged government meeting will be discussed on the agenda on November 18 with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan.
this is very important, "said A. Sadvakasova.
This, of course, is good for the state, "said the deputy chairman of the committee.
Most importantly, the expo will create new jobs and increase tax revenues, thanks to which we implement important tasks and projects, "said B. Baibek.
in the future, wipon intends to issue licenses free of charge to interested authorities.
macroeconomic stability, monetary and fiscal policies are implemented through the Government and the National Bank.
Bakytzhan sagintayev noted the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," 5 institutional reforms implemented at the initiative of the Head of State.
we are a large beekeeping economy throughout Kazakhstan. our company is the largest manufacturer of bee products in kazakhstan .
as part of the second wave of privatization, it is planned to supplement the list of previously accepted objects with new objects selected on the basis of yellow pages. "
these two factors are very necessary for Kazakhstan in the 21st century.
According to the Law "On Access to Information," natural and legal persons with all information, representatives of the state authorities, employees of the quasi-public sector.
Kazakhstan in 2017-2018. when elected to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, they pay special attention to issues of ensuring international security, preserving human rights, energy issues, food and water security, the fight against poverty and climate change.
During the Kazakh-British Business Council, Chairman of the Board of Samruk-Energo. Satkaliev held a number of meetings and negotiations, following which memorandums of understanding were signed with innovator capital limited and enzen global ltd.
In addition, in order to establish strong relations between the countries, the note proposed to consider the possibility of opening air links between the capital and the Milan.
this organization, which lists the conscience of mankind, protects traditions and cultural values.
Vladimir Vladimirovich, thank you for paying attention, not forgetting constantly.	let me award you in recognition of your service ,  - russian president said .
for the first time such a unique event is taking place in Kazakhstan. for the first time , kazakhstan held a unique event .
Chang Wanquan thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the meeting and conveyed his greetings to the President of China Xi Jinping.
The Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the Mayor's Office of Almaty, the Public Chamber of Energy Efficiency and Resource Saving, the National Chamber of Construction of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the UN Development Program in Kazakhstan holds the republican forum "Energy Efficient Kazakhstan" in Almaty.
During the visit, Nursultan Nazarbayev visited a new institution built on public-private partnership, got acquainted with the activities of kindergarten.
Compared to the same period last year, there was a dynamics of growth by 2.5 percentage points, in particular, the implementation of the regional budget as of July 1, 2014 amounted to 95.9%.
information has no analogues in the modern world.
Kazakhstan is interested in further deepening relations with the European Union. kazakhstan also intends to continue and deepen relations with the european union .
traditionally, the island is widely known for fish processing companies.
enterprises should not expect the State to be provided with funds. companies should not expect that the state will provide them with the money .
Today's forum is special for Kazakhstan, because we highly appreciate the business environment of Ukraine.
the actual volume of the index in mining and processing of open ores is 101.3% or 78.4 billion tenge.
In June this year, the contribution of the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, held in Astana with the aim of strengthening the global interfaith and intercultural dialogue, was noted.
The meeting discussed the goals and objectives within the framework of five institutional reforms, as well as topical issues related to the improvement of the status of teachers, the work of rural schools, technical education institutions, scientific and pedagogical organizations.
participants got acquainted with national nuclear energy programs and plans for the development of the nuclear industry.
it is aimed at the prosecutor's information service "business support - business support," he said.
every year, 1000 children from the party receive everything necessary for school, "said the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a member of the Nұr Otan party, hope of the roosters.
this is a sign that we are a social state.
Working together with Russia, our experts abandoned nuclear weapons in the country.
Today, the President of Kazakhstan and I will sign a joint declaration on a new stage of comprehensive strategic partnership. today i and the president of kazakhstan will sign a joint declaration on a new stage of comprehensive strategic partnership .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the national bank is an important element of the management system, especially public finances.
these programs open up prospects for joint projects between companies of the two countries.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of nuclear and alternative energy.
In this regard, the National Parliament took the initiative to create an order support center (contracting center) in order to import substitution and support domestic business in the domestic market, Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of the NPP Atameken Julia Yakupbaeva said.
from food - companies producing drinks, wine.
Note that today the President of Ukraine Petro Porshenko arrived in the capital on his first working visit.
But one drop can damage the entire well, "said the king of Jordan.
and for social debtors participating in the program, the payment of the state duty is maintained in the same form.
in Western Sahara, various people gathered as military observers. in western sahara as a military observer completely different people gathered .
this is the third stage of modernization, this investment project has entered the regional map of industrialization.
there is a crisis in the world, which affects our country. there is a crisis situation in the world that hurts our country as well .
new residents will receive housing through a white "residential construction bank."
on the Kazakh side, the group includes representatives of subsidiary structures of the holding, such as the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, the Development Fund, the Treasury of Capital Management.
The conference was attended by the chairman of the national commission - a deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Tarasenko, members of the Ura parliament, members of the national commission, employees of state bodies, Aktobe, Mangistau, Aytau and West Kazakhstan regions and business representatives.
the exhibition presents works by karaga, anda, shymkent and other cities of Kazakhstan.
- I want the constitution to become the basic book of every citizen.
I want the constitution to become the basic book of every citizen. i want the constitution to become a handbook for all citizens of our country .
In addition, the Minister noted the insufficient work to inform the population about the proposed opportunities for the development of SMEs.
every child is my future family. "
During the meeting of exporters as a discussion, entrepreneurs of the region spoke about the difficulties in business development.
here it is very convenient for exporting companies. more benefits are , of course , for companies that export .
the document contains a list of measures aimed at creating conditions for deepening industrial cooperation and aimed at developing industrial cooperation in the field of product production. the document contains a list of measures aimed at creating of conditions for the deepening of industrial cooperation and promotion of industrial cooperation in the field of production of the steel industry .
Following the speech, the Minister wished everyone success in professional activities, a confident view of the future, well-being, stability and health.
K.Tavares told the president about joint work with Kazakh partners in two years, about plans to produce finished products and export them to the markets of neighboring countries.
In 2014-2015, 776340 seedlings were planted, in 2016 it is planned to plant 353,560 seedlings.
The first phase of work on the facilities has been completed.
the center carried out expert work. the centre has analyzed the work of " bolashak " program in order to reach an effective development path .
During the meeting, the parties noted the high level of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and the UK and discussed the prospects for further cooperation in the framework of previously signed agreements.
In 2010-2014, 28 new sectors appeared in the manufacturing industry in the country: the aircraft industry, the production of switching equipment, cold processing and wire lengthening, electronic parts, fiber-optic cable, basic pharmaceutical products, steam boilers, the production of electric lighting equipment, etc.
he congratulated the Bulgarian diplomat on his appointment to the highest international position and wished the success of his mission in Central Asia.
I appeal to all exporters in the conditions of today's new exchange rate. i want to appeal to all our exporters to help the country in the new exchange rate .
In turn, the head of the Chamber of Artisans Trier spoke about the process of implementing the project of a partner between Karl Krits "atameken" and the Chamber of Artisans Trier.
As the head of state noted in 2014 in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," only "the formation of a healthy lifestyle and the development of medicine will extend the age of life of Kazakhstanis."
on rivers of silk, iron, spit, hobda and on lakes of malaek and sabandykol.
To participate in the forum, businessmen and institutes of Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Belarus, Ukraine and Poland will gather in the regional center.
The head of the Kazakh delegation held meetings with the Minister of Cautious Commerce and Industry Taufik al-Rabia, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom, Prince of Turkic al-Grave, Vice President of the King Abdullah Hussein Abulfaraj Nuclear and Renewable Energy Research Camp, as well as heads of the Chamber of Commerce, business structures and organizations.
in addition, we should have a program to support socially vulnerable segments of the population, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
With these funds, it is planned to reconstruct 1.5 thousand km of roads between Taldykorgan-Kalbatau-growth, Kalbatau-Maykapshagai and Merki-Burylbaital, "said u. alipov.
in particular, the people's government of the region "Kazakhstan temir zholy" uk "ak and jiangsu signed an agreement on strategic partnership in the development of the port of lunyungan and aea" chorgos - east gate. "
Speaking about the work of city services, the head of the capital noted that in connection with the upcoming international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, it is necessary to fulfill all the tasks.
this respect for the eldest, for the youngest, all this must remain, "said R. Sarsembayeva.
The head of state also noted that such a "security tool" as a national fund will allow Kazakhstan to continue fulfilling its social obligations by implementing the planned plans.
He noted that work was under way to harmonize the law with the national legislation of Kyrgyzstan and Armenia.
According to him, the system of the all-Kazakhstan ideal values "The m g_l_k ate" has to be formed as a gold kernel which has to connect the citizen and the state with society.
He also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as the entire Kazakh people on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 20th anniversary of the country's constitution.
as a foreign university partner, the second master's degree program was determined by the Berlin Technical University (Germany), and the main entrepreneur-partner in the implementation of the program is the Kazakhstan space visit Ak, the yellow chagan mini-rocket and space training ground, the Baikonur space site and the Peter and Paul Heavy Machine Processing Plant.
Within the framework of the pharmacy, the old concepts were eliminated and new concepts were introduced.
Accession to the WTO obliges the country to work larger than usual, "he said.
all cadets climbed the top of the "confluence" - the highest point in the region, located at the confluence of two mountain rivers serge and mountain ulba.
Kazakhstan and Russia have a common relationship to the world problem.
we have different industries that are attractive for large investments in the future. turning to each of you , i 'd like to emphasize that we have a variety of industries attractive for investment .
Commemorative events of 2015 - the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the Victory, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - are also reflected in the thematic program and design of the festival.
there is more influx of people in our capital than in other capitals. it is obvious that we - astana residents differ from other capitals .
Shu, the CIS anti-terrorism center, the collective security treaty organization, the nuclear security summit, "he said.
Business relations project - assistance to Kazakhstani entrepreneurs through rehabilitation of cooperation with foreign companies and establishment of business relations.
therefore, the functions of monitoring the compressed gas market should be provided to the national gas supply operator, that is, the ak kaztransgaz, "the people's representative said.
The program of the visit to Stockholm included meetings with the Speaker of the Swedish Parliament Urban Alin, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the European Union under the Prime Minister of Sweden hans dahlgren, the Secretary of State under the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Innovation of Sweden Oscar Stenstrom and the Director General for Political Affairs of the Swedish Foreign Ministry, - said in a statement.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the holiday and wished well-being and well-being.
In addition, Kazavtoprom plans to carry out coordination work between domestic enterprises and primary projects.
Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, Executive Secretary of ESCAP Shamshid Akhov assessed Kazakhstan's leading position on the transition to a green economy in Central Asia.
the border is open, as a result, new opportunities are opened for Kazakhstani Kyrgyz entrepreneurs. today 's event will expand opportunities for kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan for business , especially the tourist industry .
To prepare the program, industry councils were created, which included scientists and business representatives, foreign partners. sectoral councils , which include our scientists , business representatives as well as representatives of our foreign partners , were created for the development of programs .
the participation of central and local authorities in the work of kha is the result of the integration of the state and society.
according to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, "the goal of the project is to obtain cooperation in this complex area to form a future state policy based on the principles of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and providing for the reduction of the threat of conflict with the use of these weapons."
in particular, the chairmen of the sections in the areas of physical and mathematical, technical, chemical and technological sciences, biological and agricultural sciences, social and humanities and medical sciences, metallurgy and earth sciences.
responsibility for the peace and security of peoples lies with spiritual and political leaders, "- said K. Tokayev.
our country has achieved great success in terms of the level of development of the act and has taken a leading position among the CIS countries, "the Deputy Prime Minister emphasized.
representatives of the Kazakh branch of Kazagro, the agrarian credit corporation, the Kazagromarketing Agricultural Financial Support Fund told the meeting participants about projects for creating dairy farms, financing livestock and crop production projects, processing agricultural products, lending projects under the state program for the development of livestock, subsidizing investment projects.
From 2022, all schools of the Republic of Kazakhstan will switch to 12-year education, "the report said.
Everyone needs to be given the opportunity to go to Baikonur, "said the athlete.
our task is to create equal conditions for all manufacturers of the union.
charity is one of the main goals of our team.
According to him, thanks to the organizers, the pupils will go to the music-TV award.
Taking this opportunity, I want to congratulate the brotherly people of Kazakhstan on the coming Capital Day. "
Due to the high degree of organization and its role in developing the transit potential of the country, the Union "Kazavtodor" uk "ak and" kazlogistics "will allow the company to carry out tasks to diversify transit road corridors and connect to the international transport system.
In Kazakhstan, this project is being implemented on the initiative of the "atameken" of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazalinsky district has significant progress in such important areas as entrepreneurship, land, road and transport links, agriculture, energy and ecology, social policy and raising the standard of living of the population.
Civil servants in Corps B, lower positions should be raised to high positions only through observation, "the first reform of the president says.
the tendency of the company to acquire its own investments. a description of how the company will get their investment back , there are described .
they raised seven children.
efficient use of water and energy resources in the region, ecology, poverty, labor migration, etc.
The Almaty national library holds various events devoted to anniversary of the Kazakh khanate and the patriotic project "The M G_l_k Ate".
The doctrine of the rule of law is designed to bring the judiciary to a new level.
this year we have moved to major geological exploration reforms.
President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko congratulated the head of state on his birthday and wished new successes for the good of health and well-being, friendly people of Kazakhstan.
our team of 160 out of 20 mentors from republican military schools has just demonstrated their best training. our team consists of 160 people - 20 people from 8 different national military schools .
production in mining and quarrying increased by 0.2%, in manufacturing - by 0.8%.
urbanization and migration. urbanization and migration are increasing .
several agreements were signed aimed at the market of the Central Asian region.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the problem has not yet been solved, but the Minsk-2 agreement clearly spells out all the actions of the Russian and Ukrainian sides.
we learned that faith would not come only 2-3 days ago. we learned that imany wouldn 't come a few days ago .
in general, Kazakhstan is taking all measures to develop a favorable business environment as a member of the council.
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
we want India to be present in the Eurasian center, "the prime minister said.
Among the participants of the seminar are about 30 Kazakhstanis, Russian and Kazakh diplomats, military, scientists and experts who participated in the implementation of the Nunn Lugar program.
In order to eliminate interreligious problems, it is necessary to connect the heads of the political forces of the world powers, "he added.
this is 26.2% of those arrested.
South Kazakhstan specializes in agriculture, petroleum products, building materials, metallurgy and uranium mining and processing. south kazakhstan has good prospective in agricultural products , oil and oil products , textile products , building materials , metallurgy and uranium production .
we hope that today's event, a meeting of business people of the two countries, will contribute to the formation and strengthening of ties between our enterprises. we particularly hope that today 's event , the meeting of business people of our countries will help to establish and strengthen links between the companies .
it will house the local akimat, pharmacy, library and department of the institution "Shortandina water."
In the period from July 26 to August 16, 2015, training of aviation personnel of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation (Lipetsk) and military samples is carried out at the 4th State Center and the 43rd Center for Combat Training and Retraining of Flight Personnel at the Pogonovo and Dubrovichi Aviation Training Grounds (Ryazan).
The purpose of the meetings is to improve the social situation and ensure coverage of domestic enterprises by implementing memoranda on local content between local executive bodies and national companies, "the nadloc said in a statement.
work will continue in order to ensure that Kazakhstan's goods are competitive in foreign markets, "the company assured.
business program business forum provides for meetings with Japanese companies in v2v format and the signing of bilateral documents, the report said.
Kazakhstan pays great attention to the development of comprehensive ties with Kyrgyzstan. kazakhstan attaches importance to strengthening cooperation with kyrgyzstan .
in his congratulation, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic said that the rich life and professional experience of Nursultan Nazarbayev, human personal qualities and international authority are the key to successful public service, as well as an example of merciless service on the path of prosperity of the fraternal people of Kazakhstan.
this initiative of Kazakhstan is aimed at strengthening bilateral relations, creating favorable conditions for potential investors, foreign businessmen, tourists. " zhoshybayev.
v. he thanked the President of Kazakhstan for creating conditions for fruitful investment activities of foreign corporations in the country.
N. Modi noted that India is launching a new youth exchange program with 6 universities in Kazakhstan in the next 6 years.
As part of the MSW modernization program, 4 houses worth 106 million tenge were repaired in the regional center.
According to him, the association plans to hold a competition for the best business idea for young entrepreneurs as part of this project.
In recent years, a number of measures have been taken to improve the business environment and reduce the administrative barrier in business. i 'd like to note that in recent years unprecedented steps to improve the business environment and reduce the administrative burden on business have been taken .
first economics, then politics.
the constitution is the order of life.
Before the opening ceremony of the event, the former German ambassador to Kazakhstan, Mr. Hans Kailholz, spoke about the formation of diplomatic relations between Germany and Kazakhstan, about successful cooperation between countries in various sectors of the economy, about the role of the presidential scholarship "future" in the development of the country.
information about the state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
these kits are stored and exhibited at the exhibition during the agreement between the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the committee of communication, informatization and information and the national museum of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, our company is the only producer of titanium ingots for the aerospace industry in Kazakhstan. today our company is the only producer of titanium ingots in kazakhstan for the aerospace industry .
An agreement will be concluded with 4 pilot cities.
today we are actively working with them. we 're working with all these partners .
To date, the Supreme Court is preparing a draft code of administrative procedure, "said A. Sassimov.
in China, support for small and medium-sized businesses is a priority for us, at the same time we can support foreign, including small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan, "said the head of the Chinese bank.
This political institution ensures respect for national understanding, freedom and the right of all nationalities.
In general, most of the bills approved by the Majilis are related to the topic of international and foreign policy. the total number of draft laws approved by the majilis traditionally takes a significant amount of the unit of draft laws on international and foreign policy issues .
as a result, passenger participants performed the patriotic song "Atameken."
for the development of the agricultural sector, a law on agricultural cooperation will be adopted. the law on agricultural cooperation will be adopted within the program of development of agricultural sector .
During the meeting, the parties discussed cooperation between educational institutions of the two countries.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - head of state. stressed the great importance of trilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan, Russia and Kazakhstan within the framework of the nan-lugar program in the implementation of Nazarbayev's historical decision on the voluntary abandonment of weapons of mass destruction.
establishing justice is the key to the effective functioning of the state, the protection of the rights of business and citizens, "said A. Kasenova.
Now inventors will be able to come to us in the field of nano- and space industry, furniture and woodworking, pharmaceutical industry, medicine, bioengineering, genetic engineering, agrochemistry and advanced robotics technologies. inventors of innovative projects in the sphere of nanotechnology and space industry , advanced technology in woodworking and furniture industry , pharmaceutical industry , medical industry , bioengineering , genetic engineering , agricultural chemistry , robotics can apply .
Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev and Minister of Transport of the Russian Federation Maxim Falcons signed an agreement between the governments of the two countries on cooperation in the field of aviation search and rescue.
and on weekends, and on work holidays, and day and night he works, "Nursultan Nazarbayev told the author of the program, Mikhail Guzman.
the first stage (30,000 tons per year in live weight) is scheduled for October 2017 year, the second stage (60,000 tons per year in live weight) - for June 2019 year.
During the work under the second five-year plan, it is necessary to keep the whole world under control, "the head of state said.
The event was attended by representatives of the Italian national team and the national team of Kazakhstan.
In addition, branches with a capacity of 24 MW are being built in Zhambyl district, 100 MW in the serum region, 50 MW in the garbage region, the akim added.
The total estimated cost of the facilities amounted to 2.2 billion tenge.
During the meeting, topical issues were discussed within the framework of five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state, as well as in connection with the increase in the status of teachers, the work of rural schools, technical education institutions, scientific and pedagogical organizations.
secondly, the ability to form and implement national innovation projects, as well as the ability to set wide-ranging tasks for politically and economically elected groups in management that force them to achieve their goals.
In preparation for EXPO-2017, it is planned to open recreation areas for the development of the "green belt."
they will compete in two sports, in particular, in taekwon and judo.
we must return everything that we received in kindergarten, school, university.
regional, territorial and international teams take part in competitions, where participants' leadership qualities, their field skills, discipline, as well as psychological and physical endurance are tested.
Representatives of Romania held a presentation of their industrial companies, discussed ways of cooperation with Karaganda producers of products and business relations between the two countries.
your arrival in our country to attend the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions is of great importance. your visit to our country to participate in the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions is essential .
Measures to save the world from the cold war must be implemented.
our plant has all types of equipment for the production of energy-saving glazing and products, "said the director of Kss-capital anuar aldamurates LLP during a special press tour.
In the project of a happy family, young people talk about the harm of the consequences of abortion and the gap.
200 athletes from regions of Kazakhstan took part in tournament.
Compared to last year, in comparison with last year, it has improved in all indicators, "said the deputy akim of the region.
we are developing the situation, planning even more operations in the future, "said R. Azmagambetov.
in the fall, exploration work will be carried out at the new field through tobol akk.
all countries have established the responsibility of producers responsible not only for equal sales, but also for their elimination. there is a responsibility of producers in all countries , who is responsible not only for the manufacture , sale , but also for disposal .
I have not yet noticed these champions. i do not see these projects .
therefore, the task of the EAEU countries is to coordinate plans for the development of the production of basic agricultural products (meat, meat products, milk and dairy products, sugar and others), taking into account traditional priorities in the field of competition and domestic market volumes and export development opportunities.
In January-March 2015, small and medium-sized enterprises produced products worth 92,695 million tenge.
R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the possibility of participation of American companies in the "expo-2017" at a meeting in Silicon Valley.
pasta and flour, which are exported a lot, "the expert noted.
Kazakh and Bulgarian libraries, museums, cinematographers and concert organizations are striving for the prosperity of partnership.
Following the meeting, the Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to the heads of interested state bodies.
together with the national archive and the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Science, "he said.
we cooperate with government agencies and international organizations.
at the end, the lapshina wished the head of state good health and happiness.
According to a report sent from the Sustainable Development Land Fund, volunteers will plant 1 million trees in 14 regions on the day of national forestry, which will begin on September 19, 2015.
our products are among the competitive products, "said A. Arynov.
the largest project in the road industry with a length of 2,787 km. Western Europe-Western China is an intercontinental road corridor.
we will sign important agreements in the framework of the forum. as the result of the forum , our parties conclude important treaties .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the work of the Eurasian Economic Union largely affects the increase in investment attractiveness.
According to the president of the airline, the flight between Kazakhstan and South Korea will run 1 times a week, and Astana-Tbilisi - twice a week.
all children received higher education.
the purpose of the exhibition is to educate young people. the aim is to educate young people .
The agency also added the function of attracting foreign investment.
Taking into account the introduction of new technologies, heads of state bodies can accept citizens online, and it is also proposed to make additional additions to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the procedure for considering complaints of individuals and legal entities" with comments "videoconferencing," "video appeal" and "online reception."
we took for ourselves many necessary points from the Milan expo experience.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: In the book of the person who is in power, the path of the history of the head of state is drawn in time, objectively, on the broadest scale.
today, young people should participate in all processes of public administration, "said K.Yelubayev.
The forum will not solve the issues raised, but will give an impetus to a decision. in a relaxed atmosphere , participants will discuss issues of the region , the priorities the government defines .
the second competition was held by tankers from Russia, China, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
During the meeting, issues of preparation for EXPO-2017 in the capital, construction and subsequent operation of facilities, as well as involvement of the private and quasi-public sector in this project were discussed.
"- said Bauyrzhan Baibek.
also during the event on ethnopedagogy "language - the golden bridge of friendship"; " the wisdom of the country in fairy tales ";" the philosophy of Kazakh national clothing. "
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions.
I am very pleased with the visit of the President of Ukraine, who first came to us with an invitation to Kazakhstan. i am delighted to welcome the president of the ukraine in kazakhstan .
All prize-winning enterprises will take part in the republican exhibition competition "Best Goods of Kazakhstan 2015," which takes place in the capital.
In his congratulations, the management of the erg company on behalf of a team of thousands of people congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and wished good health, a long and fruitful life for the prosperity of Kazakhstan.
Kazakh students familiarized the ambassador with the goals and objectives of the Kazgeralans Union, planned events this year.
On the same day, as part of the fair, contests and shows, "baursak show," will be organized for residents of the capital.
in particular, the "court cabinet," "familiarization with court documents," "list of cases heard, direction of the court," "arbitration information system," system for notifying participants in the trial by SMS notification and e-mail, and Kazpost hybrid e-mail got acquainted with the joint activities of white and judicial information systems, as well as with the audio-video recording system of the trial.
On the eve of the celebration of Capital Day, we plan to create a new modern sports complex.
In conclusion, the head of state invited British companies to take part in joint projects.
As the head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning of the Shukatov Gulmir noted, indicators in the flour mill industry, the production of bakery products, the production of beverages, and the production of products without minar metal were reduced.
the first meeting of the union will be held today, the number of assets offered by the initiator companies is 13, in general, the organization includes 50-60 companies from all regions of Kazakhstan in the field of light industry, "he added.
The basic law of the State, adopted on 30 August 1995, remains the basic values of society.
As President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, expo is such a complex anti-crisis program as it is now. as the president noted , the expo - is the locomotive of our economy .
As noted, the Governor of the region and the Ambassador considered a number of topical issues of the development of the region, in particular, the parties intend to expand cooperation in the field of mechanical engineering, non-ferrous metallurgy and woodworking.
One exhibition will be held in April in Alma-Ata, the second in October in the capital.
toast. "
the school has rooms for chemical and biological, physical and mathematical, integration, technical modeling, a laboratory of nano-biotechnology, robotics and an information room.
As the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Norway noted, the activities of the Honorary Consul will contribute to the development of business ties, the search for new partners, and the expansion of cultural and humanitarian ties.
crews of fighters such as Su-27, Su-30, MiG-29, attack aircraft such as Su-25, front-line bombers Su-24, Su-34 and helicopters Ka-52, mi-8, mi-24, mi-28n from each country are invited to the competition, the statement said.
Akim of the region, akim of Aktobe and Transenergo signed a four-party agreement to support the project.
if you look at countries with successful economies, such as South Korea, Singapore, China, Germany, Brazil, then they have an industrial policy of the national level.
Cooperation in education was discussed at a meeting with Welsh academia.
these are housing, food, clothing, medical and psychological care, "he said.
in general, the eternal country "will become the basis of unity and creation on the land of Kazakhstan.
the main difference is the average price. the most important change - the median estimate .
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday, noting that under his effective leadership Kazakhstan has been increasing its authority in the international arena for many years.
There are many mechanisms, one of which is energy efficiency, modernization of enterprises, attracting investments, "said N. Bakkenbaev.
for example, a sports hall and a bath and wash plant were opened in the village of Kyzylagash, "he said.
Recall, on September 30, the World Economic Forum published an annual report on global competitiveness in 2015-2016.
And after long court hearings, construction resumed.
I can connect unity with boxing.
cable products will be provided to state institutions and transport, telecommunications, oil and gas institutions.
The holiday opened the contest "Best Yurt."
As part of economic reforms, participants in foreign economic activity increased, export-import operations with oil, gas, processing products and electricity are carried out, "the report said.
The twenty-first century should be the age of the prohibition of nuclear weapons.
As N.Nazarbayev noted, the rich heritage of Turkic peoples should know everything, in this sense the scientific project "ancestral heritage" is important.
we have the opportunity to develop this industry. we have great opportunities for development of this sector .
To date, competitions have been announced for young people in need of support, issues of their employment are being resolved, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhip.
On August 26, 2015, in accordance with the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the status of its deputies" and the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of August 26, 2015, the central election commission registered the rashid of a tolerant Tusupbekov as a deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in the second direction of the housing construction savings bank, the construction of two 60-apartment residential buildings for young families (IV degree of convenience) is completed.
Representatives of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
For many years, positive measures have been implemented, there are experienced experts in the country, and young people need their experience, "he added.
taxes will remain in the country, jobs will be created and we will solve the problem of poverty, "said Karagusova.
The competition was attended by teams of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Supreme Court, the State Security Service, the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, and the Ministry of Defense.
We received about 60 bills, mainly 5 institutional reforms aimed at implementing 100 concrete steps. we have received about 60 bills , they are mainly aimed at the implementation of 5 institutional reforms - 100 concrete steps .
A.Tursynov noted that interest in projects is very great.
The head of the region heard the report of the working group and instructed the responsible departments to develop a plan for the development of fish production in eastern Kazakhstan with the involvement of international companies.
this will help your first teachers and textbooks, this book.
b. amireev and the President of Djibouti, acting at the meeting of gulleh, was attended by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of this country M. Youssef and the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
joint teaching consists of two stages.
Currently, there are 5 microcredit organizations in the West Kazakhstan region, 4 of which are participating in the project.
the best pilots will take part in the international stage.
The clear position of Kazakhstan was noted that this is an exclusively economic association that should develop within the framework of the economy and foreign trade.
Kazakhstan has become a leader in creating favorable conditions for doing business.
we assess Malaysia as a reliable economic partner within Southeast Asian countries. we highly appreciate malaysia as our reliable and economic partner among the countries of southeast asia , and we expect that the malaysian companies , owning modern technologies of management and production , contribute to the development of joint investment projects , " ye.khairov said .
familiarization with the work of social facilities continued in the Druzhba water sports center and the Eileen three-story kindergarten.
Kazakhstan is steadily actively developing, while the legal system should be updated taking into account the development of the economy and modern equations, "said E. Maksyuta.
It should be noted that a scientific and practical conference "Constitution: unity, stability, prosperity" was held in the capital, dedicated to the anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of the head of state.
complementary opportunities between our countries cover the areas of nuclear energy, agriculture, automotive industry, high technology.
The head of state noted that the Sitik Group Corporation and Kazakhstan have a good history of cooperation.
according to him, despite the unrest and geopolitical instability in the global economy, Kazakhstan is showing steady economic growth and attractiveness for investors.
50 units of special equipment underwent major and depot repairs, "said the head of the technical department of the directorate of the white backbone network" ktzh. "
The holding of this exhibition is one of the main projects of Kazakhstan, which was proposed by the head of state.
This year, 750 schoolchildren could not get the corresponding score.
to that end, specific plans were being formulated.
The document was signed during the first international conference on Eurasian code, held as part of the 20th cartographic conference (unrcc-ap) for the Asia-Pacific region and the 4th conference on the management of global geocognostic information (un-ggim-ap) for the steam Asia-Pacific region.
The plan for 2015-2017, which provides for environmental problems, was also considered.
During the discussion, the possibilities of selling railway transport products at the Kazakhstan Tulpar-Talgo, Electric Locomotive Plant (export), Locomotive Building Plant (lkz) plants, as well as with the support of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan were analyzed.
we are trying to harmonize our national standards, "he said.
Opening the conference, the Attorney General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kanat Khasenov focused on the main directions of tourism development in Kazakhstan and familiarized with such international events as the winter universiade 2017 in Kazakhstan and the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017."
According to the press service of the department, during the meeting, issues of admission to the civil service, administrative and disciplinary experience and assessment of the quality of public services were discussed.
The creation of a business climate is one of the main requirements laid down by the head of state, in this regard, which is why Kazakhstan has risen to a number of positions, which is a value for the whole country, "said the chairman of the board.
The head of state noted the importance of Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU, which meets the interests of Kazakhstan and contributes to the further expansion of economic cooperation between the two republics.
Together with the audience, we discussed issues that concern us, goals, tasks, "said A. Dyak.
In the direction of meat and milk, we intend to establish a strategic partnership with leading world companies.
preparations are being made for the 20th anniversary of the founding, "the report said.
today he flew to the capital to open a mazda dealership in Kazakhstan.
To date, within the framework of the industrialization map, Kazakhstan has implemented 20 large joint investment projects, four of which have already been implemented and 3 projects are being implemented in the future, "N. Nazarbayev said.
In 2015, at the initiative of the president, the "550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate" is celebrated at the national level. kibledins.
According to him, currently the agrarian credit corporation has concluded agreements with RBC Bank, Tsesnabank and the bank of the capital, work continues to attract other banks.
Knowledge of modern information technologies in the learning process is an important factor for the development of the education sector, "said the chairman of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School.
I believe that we should strive for world-class requirements.
According to him, this topic is widely covered.
we propose to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs to simplify the licensing of companies engaged in domestic tourism, "said Mr. Kurbanbayeva.
everyone is interested in innovative projects.
In general, the regions should be rid of cars and create new comfortable places of rest for people, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Today, for high-quality work in the region, it is necessary to raise tariffs, "said Deputy Akim of East Kazakhstan region Dmitry Garikov.
in fact, 77 objects were put up for sale, 56 objects were sold.
Also, the heads of the education sector will discuss the conditions of cooperation between the Turkic Academy and the union of universities of Turkic-speaking countries and other issues.
The Business Roadmap 2020 program will be continued to maintain stability in employment and the development of entrepreneurship, "B.Sultanov said.
In addition, other important projects are being implemented outside the industrialization map in the city, such as the expansion of the greenhouse complex by 3 hectares of Nika-99 LLP, the reclamation of chariots for demining of Ecovtortekhresurs LLP, the Aibek acketserva workshop and others.
part. Under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has achieved significant development, socio-political stability, economic growth, and improvement of the life of the people.
Of the applications received, 830 were returned, according to 1316 applications, the objects were examined by the commission and legalized, 3 applications were denied legalization, 35 applications are under consideration.
in the Karaganda region these are ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, the production of chemicals for production, the production of special equipment, electrical equipment for machines and the mining industry, the production of building materials and food.
my formula is to always work, constantly go on a creative search.
this year introduced 2 new educational programs ("mechanical processing, instrumentation and automation in industry," "information systems") and placed a state educational order for 50 places in the higher technical school of Kokshetau, "the Ministry of Education and Science said.
We are glad that the European countries use the platforms that we offer, "he said.
So, last year, the number of students at the school amounted to 511 people, this year on September 1 - 924 people, "the akim said.
pharmaceutical products have also begun to emerge.
The head of the national nuclear company examined the work of the sulphuric acid plant of Skz-u LLP in the Zhanakorgan district of the Kyzylorda region.
The purpose of the project is to stimulate the conduct of high-tech, relevant for the country research and commercialization of technologies.
all of them noted that tenge was rated too high, after which they gave a positive assessment of the work carried out.
through one window, "documents regulating interaction between state bodies and foreign economic activity are familiarized.
in addition, the bill is supplemented by provisions providing for the submission of an annual report to the head of state as president of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
in fact, as of June 1, 151 objects were withdrawn, including 75 objects sold.
According to him, the Nұr Otan party is actively participating in the implementation of "100 concrete steps."
According to K. Tokayev, the visit of Belarusian parliamentarians will contribute to the further development of allied relations between the two countries.
According to him, in the first half of 2015, the number of juvenile convicts decreased by 26%.
Peace and harmony are our Kazakh happiness, this is a great achievement of Kazakhstanis, and we need to always take care of it, "the head of state said.
Last year, 300 million tenge was allocated from the city budget to reward teachers, 1000 best teachers received a reward of 300 thousand tenge.
The opening of a new school in the village with such a future as Kenzhekol is a landmark event. the opening of a new school in kenzhekol village - a wonderful event .
firstly - saving time and money, and each side can make a convenient solution, "said Karakozova.
remuneration is provided, grants for property will be allocated in the framework of the competition in accordance with the new rules. it is proposed to introduce premiums for ngos , grants will be allocated under the new rules , targeted to ngos .
the first reading will consider changes and additions to the legislation on informatization, compulsory social health insurance, industrial and innovative policies, the provision of public services, combating corruption, the production of organic products and the development of the agro-industrial complex.
it is used only for the EAEU countries.
The main attention is paid to the potential of transport and energy cooperation, the department said.
the project is implemented with the support of the Department of Passenger Transportation and Roads of Astana and the Department of Administrative Police of Astana.
A striking example of a successful partnership between Kazakhstan and Ukraine is the steel structure and sandwich panel production plant under construction on the territory of the country "capital is a new city." sagintayev.
The head of state noted that the republic and the cnpc company have a lot of experience in cooperation, over the years the parties have formed a significant base of interaction.
It is noted that state revenue bodies contribute to the development of the economy and foreign trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan, increase trade turnover across the customs border, and simplify customs operations.
the hotel complex has a restaurant for serving guests, a bar, a spa (swimming pool, jacuzzi, Russian bath, Finnish sauna, massage rooms, etc.), a children's area, as well as a gift shop.
According to the capital's construction department, as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 430 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 28.3 thousand square meters south of Saraychik Street were commissioned in the city.
now measures to support domestic companies will be excluded from the procurement activities of Kazneftegaz.
will use the best risk management experience, "said the Minister of National Economy.
R. Khalmuradov also congratulated Mr. Abrani on his appointment as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Hungary to Kazakhstan and expressed confidence in the expansion of political, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties between the two countries.
In the first years of independence, the state can build a plant, a power plant, modernize transport infrastructure, open new industries, establish not only raw materials, but also processing industries, "the expert said.
it is very responsible, "says the officer.
of which 3 people were sent to permanent jobs, 11 to temporary jobs, "the report said.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to positive changes in the development of Afghanistan.
In this industry, our region ranks 3rd in the republic.
At the end of the event, the head of the metropolis instructed the heads of specialized services and departments to develop and submit a plan of preparatory work for the implementation of the concept "Almaty is a comfortable city for people."
Askar Zhumagaliyev noted that the company's development strategy pays great attention to personnel policy.
reduced level of control. it is planned to reduce the levels of management .
He noted that the implementation of the state program will increase transit transportation, ensure the integration of transport infrastructure into the international transport system, and will also develop local transport infrastructure in the regions.
and today, on the international day for the protection of children, we gathered them all and awarded the winners.
we invite all domestic manufacturers to take part in the competition, "he said.
what will this project give the city?
The volume of construction work is 78.1%, which is associated with the completion of construction work of the channel-shubarkul railway line.
It is noted that this agreement will be concluded with the head of the state agency.
this is a very important moment for our history and opportunities.
in total, 162.7 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned. 162.7 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned .
prospects and prospects for agricultural growth in Kazakhstan. agriculture of kazakhstan has great potential and unused reserves .
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the need to expand transport and transit cooperation.
now they are preparing at the Scorpion training ground in Kaspiysk.
such an order was signed by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
for example, everyone knows what perfume France produces. for example , everyone knows what parfume produced in france .
all of them were approved by the head of state, "said Sultanov.
The head of the region got acquainted with the work in the city of kentau.
this is an initiative of public organizations supported by local authorities and international organizations. this initiative is of non-governmental organizations , the local authorities , international organizations assist it .
One of the excellent initiatives of Kazakhstan is the holding of expo-2017, the main theme of which will be the energy of the future.
The press conference will be attended by Chairman of the Committee on Geology and Use of Natural Resources, Bazarbay Nurabayev, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Geology and Use of Natural Resources Akbatyr Nadyrbaev, Chairman of the Board of Kazgeologiya JSC scientist Nurzhanov and iluka resources Kazakhstan.
the corresponding indicator was not achieved in renovation cities - 6.1% and kentau - 6.9%.
A memorandum on transshipment of liquefied natural gas with the capital investment fund was also signed.
As M.Pishembayev noted, these issues will be discussed with state bodies, the public and the association of machine builders at the forum of machine builders of Kazakhstan to be held in October.
The capital is a city of the future and opportunities, it is a city of youth where dreams are fulfilled. astana - a city of the future and great opportunities , it is a city of young people , the city where dreams come true .
Tomorrow, within the framework of the international investment forum Irtysh Invest - 2015, it is planned to sign a memorandum with the Novosibirsk company Sibinvestgroup on the implementation of the project "Construction of a plant for the production of aluminum disks for vehicles in the Pavlodar region."
to attract investors, we created an industrial zone, the work was completely completed thanks to the support of the government.
of them on republican property - 9, on communal property - 82, on acks - 56, on holdings - 41.
As you know, we have begun to implement large-scale institutional reforms, including further improvement of Kazakhstan's investment climate. as you know , we launched a large-scale program , including those that are aimed at further improvement of the investment climate in kazakhstan .
The Akmola region team presented 24 athletes in five sports: swimming, athletics, gumba shooting, table tennis, powerlifting.
Note that the forum will present investment projects implemented in 2016-2017.
It is worth noting that this plan provides for the holding of an exhibition, a fair, support for the change of trade delegations, the search for business partners and a business meeting between Kazakhstan and Ukraine.
basic goods are purchased on the market: food, pharmaceutical industry, light industry products, construction materials.
today there are proposals for translating the book into Chinese, Polish, "he added.
this is Caspian Plus LLP, the pasta factory of Novo-Alzhansky Mill LLP, Eurasian Metal Company LLP and Asbi Sat Group LLC and Ice Plus LLP.
As for the history of Kazakhstan, state symbols are a sign of its state and ethnic identity.
It is worth noting that the exhibition provides for maximum information to the general public about the products produced in the country, "said the organizer of the exhibition, chairman of the board of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content Nadloc JSC.
Speaking about the preparation of the capital for the international exhibition EXPO-2017, the mayor noted the need to expand the international ties of the capital.
Priority investment projects are expected to include the production of glyphosate, containers, the production of plant protection and growth items, the production of lime, etc.
our goal is to further improve all the work carried out - landscaping, cleaning, searching for new opportunities for serving the population, developing public-private partnerships, involving business structures in this process, "the mayor concluded.
We will direct the increased funds to investment expenses, equipment leasing and interest rates, "said B. Sagintayev.
this is also convenient for city services, since preparation for the exhibition is one of the main tasks facing the akimat and the company, which creates conditions for transparent work. "
Political and public figures, famous poets-writers, academic applicants, translators of works of the great thinker became honored guests of the holiday.
In the future, it is planned to create joint projects in the manufacturing sector and in the field of transport construction, in the field of trade and tourism, "the head of state said.
- in short, it is cruelty, propaganda and speed.
In addition, the program provides for the development of the main assets of railway infrastructure and domestic railway machine builders.
To date, in the capital, 3 leading specialists of this company are constantly in our center and provide assistance to Kazakh scientists and technology developers, "he added.
It was attended by members of parliament, employees of state bodies, scientists and experts in Kazakhstan, representatives of universities, undergraduates and students.
The summit participants were informed about the creation of an international financial center, court and arbitration in Astana.
senior dombrist has an honorary title.
The Kazakh delegation also participated in the business conference of Harfordshire County, where it presented the economic and investment opportunities of the South Kazakhstan region.
According to the deputy chairman, "this year the border of Tashkent-Shymkent, Shymkent-Zhambyl region, Almaty-Kurgan - 483 km passes."
Thus, holding such competitions will allow young people to move forward. "
Therefore, I think that there is a reason to argue for the title "Miss Kazakhstan -2015," - said Szaksybayev.
As the head of state noted, parliament and the government have a lot of work to do with state bodies. as the head of state instructed , the parliament and the government have a great mission in terns of the national plan .
The internship program was drawn up at the request of the Russian side and provides for familiarization with the socio-political and socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the program of support for agriculture, the practice of interaction between state and civil institutions in the field of inter-ethnic relations, the prospects for the development of the capital - the city of the capital.
We also believe that this project will have a positive impact on the influx of foreign tourists during major international events planned for the next two years, including EXPO-2017 in the capital and the Winter Universiade-2017 in Almaty.
First of all, the company solves the issue of direct communication between areas, thereby contributing to economic development. firstly , the company will provide the direct ways to the regions , it will give an impetus to economic development .
During the visit, the Deputy Prime Minister also examined residential complexes built under the Nұrly Zhol program.
priority areas for self-employment (environmental activities) will be determined for foreign workers, "said B. Nurymbetov.
he plays in the final matches, this is the first game for first place.
This year Kazakhstan celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan.
The main zones of tourism development will be hotels, holiday homes, health complexes, sanatoriums, etc.
the object is planned to be handed over in September.
Due to the large number of events this year, we attracted 4,500 people to organize festive events in open areas. this year , due to the fact that a large number of events will take place in an open area , we have attracted above 4,500 people .
According to the regional land relations department, in the period from 2012 to 2014, 789.4 thousand hectares of agricultural land were identified, including arable land - 134.2 thousand hectares, pastures - 655.2 thousand hectares.
in any case, contact the department, we will take measures, "said the consultant of the department of anti-corruption information and public relations gulnur bekbaeva.
The draft law ensures the realization of civil, political, social, economic, cultural and other rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities enshrined in the Constitution and international treaties to which Kazakhstan is a party.
As the Minister noted, today it is supposed to liquidate and mass sell assets.
to date, there are 3 types of registration: registration through the egov.kz of "e-government," registration with the CES, egov.kz. registration through a mobile application.
November 8, 2015 marks the 95th anniversary of state statistics of Kazakhstan. on november 8 , in 1920 , the government of kazakh assr adopted " law on state statistics in kazassr . "
awarding the best social workers with diplomas, badges "veteran of labor" and "excellent student of the social sphere of labor."
The forum was attended by representatives of chambers of entrepreneurs of two regions, Akk Shymkent, financial institutions and business associations of Almaty and Yuko.
According to the executive director of the department of price marketing, procurement and local content of the capital Expo-2017, the main requirements for suppliers are price, quality and delivery time, as well as another requirement for suppliers is product safety.
a lot of work has also been done in the field of non-financial support for start-ups, current and potential entrepreneurs.
As noted in the report, as part of this initiative, young specialists of Kazakhstan were invited to develop projects in the field of social entrepreneurship.
According to him, Kazakhstan was a multi-ethnic, multi-confessional state, where Russian-speaking residents dominated.
The event was attended by the Kazakh delegation, represented by the Director General of the Kazakhstan Institute of Metrology, Vasily Mikhalchenko, employees of the Kazakhstan Institute of Standardization and Certification and Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, Kazakhstan declares itself as a held state.
According to A. Elchieva, Head of the Department for Youth Affairs and Language Development, the total cost of financing the production and delivery of textbooks to schools is 3,050,274 thousand tenge.
The Vice Minister noted that "the main goal is to assist states in solving difficult issues related to labor migration in the direction of Central Asian countries, in general in the region and beyond."
The heads of the Pacific countries are invited to take an active part in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
An arrived investor should meet with a specific person in the government, and this person will open all the necessary doors to him, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
these are the remains of ancient settlements.
1,898 thousand tons of oil and petroleum products (50 thousand barrels per day) shipped to the domestic market, 1,715 thousand tons (45 thousand barrels per day) were delivered to the Atyr oil refinery from nmg and emg reserves, 140 thousand tons (4 thousand barrels per day) were sent to the Pavlodar petrochemical plant.
In addition, the city is 100% covered by warm education, sports, health, culture and other social facilities.
Currently, 1,200 people and 160 pieces of equipment work in the flood area, "said B. Saparbayev.
On the first day, the round table discussed the application of the New York Convention, the enforcement of arbitral awards and the introduction of the Model Law of the Citral (Commission on the Law of Steam International Trade).
In all regions, commissions have been established to select the best social projects, which include representatives of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), advisers to akims dealing with social issues, representatives of branches of the Nұr Otan party, the national chamber of entrepreneurs and other interested persons.
it is also planned to participate in an international conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the country's constitution.
we do not share Romanians in Moldova, Transylvania, Bucovine and Romania.
According to him, the possibility of obtaining an apartment was made possible thanks to the Nұrly Zhol program.
the parties expressed confidence that Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO will open new economic horizons for the republic.
Kazakhstan group of scientists - developers of the national scientific program of space flights was headed by the president of the joint-stock company "National Center for Space Research and Technology," professor of zhumabek zhantayev.
at this stage, it is planned to hold a competition among residents of institutions (peak), schools and growth and Semipalatinsk cities in the nominations "our courtyard-prosperous garden" (peak) and "the best ecological garden project" (among educational institutions).
As of October 1, 2015, the number of joint ventures with Malaysian capital amounted to 65.
As of June 26, 2015, of the allocated 300 billion tenge 190.4 billion tenge was spent, that is, 63%, 874 projects were financed.
one-time fee is 0.25%.
in Karaganda region, the portfolio of term and conditional deposits of the population amounted to 231.4 billion tenge.
The commission and the countries of the union plan to prepare 1,917 GOST, of which 687 are based on international and regional requirements, "said V. Koreshkov.
"- said the head of the security service of the air defense forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Baimakhan.
we are Eurasians, because we are in the center of Europe and Asia, we have mastered the best culture of both sides, "said D. Nazarbayev.
I think that the agreements in this area are very effective and will contribute to our corporations, "N. Nazarbayev said.
- That is, in your opinion, the implementation of transport projects will be a serious impulse for the development of our economy?
This is important for all states, since the championship is held on the eve of the Olympics.
From March 16 to September 2 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3051 remote rural districts in all regions of the country and visited 5216 times.
The implementation of five institutional reforms determines the prospects of our country for the next 10-15 years. implementing 5 institutional reforms defines future of our country for 10-15 years , " vice premier added .
Priority investment projects are expected to include the production of glyphosate, containers, the production of plant protection and growth items, the production of lime, etc.
The fiftieth anniversary of the past is associated with history, modern China, the past, the future of Middle Eastern countries and other parts of the Asian continent, "said N. Nazarbayev.
On September 1, 2015, work began on training personnel in 24 innovative educational programs in 11 basic universities, the minister said. since september 1 , 11 universities began training by 24 innovative educational programs .
this city is a symbol of our independence and the achievements of our country over the years of sovereignty, "the head of state said.
In total, there are 52 thousand SMEs in the region.
every year there is a growing number of people wishing to speak the state language.
Chakrabarti noted the importance of Kazakhstan's course towards infrastructure development and expressed hope for further fruitful cooperation.
the total amount of violations subject to restoration and compensation, 512 034.9 thousand tenge, of which the applied measures were restored - 485 194.9 thousand tenge, repaid in the budget income - 2 165.31 thousand tenge or 95.2 percent of the total amount to be restored and reimbursed.
Recall that the creation of the meeting of experts was carried out by the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" with the support of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the "samruk-kazyna."
Recall, according to the program "Affordable Housing - 2020," 12 residential complexes for 3,208,12 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 168.4 thousand square meters were commissioned in the capital.
It is noted that the volume of production amounted to 286.1 billion tenge, which is 40.4 billion tenge more than last year.
The head of state examined the plant and got acquainted with the implementation of the investment project for the production of aluminum radiator.
full-cycle production in Kazakhstan will not only strengthen the group's position in the region, but will also contribute to the development of suppliers of automotive components and increase the level of localization in the industry as a whole, "said psa peugeot citroèn group christof berjeran.
There is also competition of integration blocks, "said the Farhad Kuanganov.
the main value of humanity today and tomorrow is the agrarian complex, "the head of state said.
During the event, R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the large-scale preparation for the upcoming exhibition, about the conditions for participation in EXPO-2017 and customs, tax benefits for its participants.
we studied the economy of the region and developed proposals for cooperation in several sectors. we studied the profile of the region and made proposals for cooperation in several areas .
This year, the area of ​ ​ crops amounted to 21,983 hectares, including rice crops sown on 15,390 hectares.
and the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev noted that our people support peace and all the countries striving for it, including Afghanistan.
our rivals are very strong. we have very strong contenders .
Therefore, the tourism program will be one of the priority areas of our ministry. "
Therefore, it was initially proposed to exempt from VAT or reduce the VAT interest rate, "he said.
Within the framework of the industrialization program, projects were implemented with the participation of the world's largest companies in the field of geology and subsoil use.
The regional plans also include the implementation of the tourist project "Construction of a hotel" in the village of Aktogay, Aktogai district.
here we can discuss and discuss the most pressing issues of international policy. we can exchange views on the most pressing issues of the international politics and discuss any questions of our multilateral cooperation .
we will overcome all the difficulties and victories together, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to him, we combine the efforts of political and religious leaders to preserve people's lives from a traditional moral point of view, to ensure security.
we are an Asian society, in addition to the West, we have special traditions. we are an asian society , we have different traditions from the west .
in accordance with the project, a permanent collegiate body is created, headed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the council for managing the center.
In turn, Mr. Pouyanne reported to Nursultan Nazarbayev on the exploration of the field and the implementation of other investment projects in Kazakhstan.
a resident of any region of the country can apply for participation on the Miss Kazakhstan website.
Kazakhstan does not have the production of deep integrated processing of modern coal, so preparation is needed, "he said.
In the period from March 16 to September 14 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3,474 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 5,704 times.
for example, since the beginning of 2015, the total amount of lending to the agro-industrial complex by the Kazagro national holding group amounted to 118.3 billion tenge, the share of small and medium-sized businesses amounted to 104.5 billion tenge, which is 88% of the total.
According to him, this is a unique platform for the exchange of views on issues of education and international trends.
the volume index for the period 2008-2014 was 123.7% against 119.8%.
In addition, athletes from Japan, France, Spain, Brazil, Canada, Malaysia and Thailand were selected for the world team.
Since the beginning of 2015, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region held 767 consultations on state programs for legal entities and individuals.
I am sure that in the future the capital will become one of the most beautiful cities on our planet, and now I intend to visit the EXPO-2017 exhibition, "one of the guests of the exhibition shared his impressions.
In addition, road workers presented drivers with shepherds with the inscription "kazavtodor" and lemon for cheer.
in our country, state symbols include the national flag, national emblem and national anthem.
The total cost of these projects is 118.6 billion tenge.
Based on the ratings, I can say that within 5-7 hours we will be seen by 5-6 million people in Kazakhstan alone.
funding for this office is provided in the republican budget. funding was provided by the national budget .
According to him, for more effective work, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan has engaged international consultants of the American Foundation for Global Civic Research crdf.
these are concrete steps to implement the president's instructions to improve the country's justice system in accordance with the standards of the world's leading member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
In this regard, the representative of the Ministry of Trade drew attention to the successful business forum in Astana in June this year with the participation of business circles of the two countries, opening up new opportunities for expanding trade and diversifying the economy of Kazakhstan.
all district doctors, general practitioners can learn from the best international experts.
According to the concept of expansion and reconstruction of Pavlodarenergo 3 JSC, from 2011 to 2017, it is planned to reconstruct and replace 5 turbine units and 2 boiler units.
great demand, sometimes they do not have time, "said A. Ibraev."
the company's activities from one to the purchase of finished products, as well as includes erse contracts, organization of financing, trade, investment.
At the same time, from today all technical procedures are being implemented, "said the Minister for Key Areas of the Eurasian Economic Commission in Integration and Macroeconomics.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the business forum, which will be held as part of the official visit of the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo abe, will become an additional platform and deepen cooperation.
Novoalzhansky mill took 1st place in the nomination "best food products."
our countries are located in the same region and historically our peoples were mixed, traded, established political ties.
this issue is very relevant, a number of proposals have been received from large mobile operators, "he said.
According to the agreement, Kazatomprom will become a strategic shareholder in Qatar solar energy and will have the opportunity to expand the chain of solar panel production from raw materials to electricity production.
As noted in the report, this year 4 investment projects are being implemented at the first stage of the program.
In order to organize the transparency of the process of selecting candidates, optimizing the acceptance of applications, the "debt" contest is held in two stages: at the regional and republican levels.
according to steam data, 1800 are on alert.
six Kazakhstani athletes arrived in Rome - ardak otorbayev, given runaway, marat karakulov, nargiz akhmetov, slave atalykov, dastan raushanbekov.
As the Ambassador noted, friendly relations have been established between Kazakhstan and Latvia.
The head of the region told the guests about the socio-economic development of the region, natural resources, the investment climate and focused on the work of joint ventures of Kazakhstan and France located in our country.
we read the announcement of the contest in the district newspaper. we are very glad to participate in this contest .
it will be a field dialogue platform for our players.
for example, "atf bank" under the concluded agreement will be allocated to finance enterprises of small and medium-sized businesses, housing and commercial construction, increase the capacity of enterprises totaling 19.5 billion tenge.
On behalf of the people of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev presented Nursultan Nazarbayev with the Order of Manas of the 1st degree for his outstanding contribution to strengthening friendship and good-neighbourly relations between the two countries.
Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Lower Saxony (Germany) Mr. Papenburg expressed confidence that the strength, knowledge and persistence of Nursultan Nazarbayev will continue to be aimed at fulfilling the most important socio-economic tasks of Kazakhstan, maintaining stability and inter-ethnic harmony.
The event was attended by about 200 representatives of UN member states, initiators of the initiative (kum, Russia), observers and five international organizations.
On Industrialization Day, the head of state launched 8 large Kazakh projects that belonged to Samruk-kazyna subsidiaries, "B. Seysengaliyev said.
participants proposed also opinions on further development of the draft of the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate", the large-scale project of a kh "The big country - big family", the ideas of social nation-wide labor.
implementation of the project will make a significant contribution to the North Kazakhstan economy. the project will significantly contribute to the economy of north kazakhstan region .
- Act of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Compulsory Social Health Insurance," aimed at bringing into line with the Act of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Compulsory Social Health Insurance."
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of mutually beneficial relations on energy, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, transport and logistics, civil aviation, culture and sports, tourism, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, agriculture, education and science, mining, textile, bank and military-technical sphere.
In addition, we know that the capital and the enemy have unrealized potential for further deepening and expanding economic relations, "he stressed.
recently, our famous musicians represent Kazakhstan and the Kazakh people.
It is necessary to take measures to support the regional akimats by increasing the management of headquarters, monthly social assistance to low-income persons financed from the local budget, the head of government said.
According to the results of 2014, Karaganda region produced industrial products worth 1.44 trillion tenge - this is 9% more than a year earlier, and since 2014 - by almost 40%, "the report said.
of course, they wrote about our president before us. there are , of course , a lot of people who had written about the life of n.nazarbayev before us .
The population in the regions of the Shu member countries is $1.5 billion.
the school seats 500 people, 350 live in dormitories.
"During the construction of the poultry farm, state support was provided in the amount of 278 million tenge under the guarantee of the Development Fund as part of the BZhK-2020 program.
Every 4-5 years, we order an independent study on the living conditions of children and based on these data we determine in which direction we are developing, "said the director of the Children's Sauce Villages of Kazakhstan corporate fund.
The Law "On State Regulation of the Development of the Agro-Industrial Complex and Rural Territories under the Section of the Regulation of the Agro-industrial Complex and Rural Territories" is being amended in order to assess the state of irrigated land reclamation and conduct state monitoring, contributing to the diversification of agricultural land and the introduction of a water-saving irrigation system, "said the Deputy Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan during the presentation of talgat the Akhsambiev.
sources today are able to provide markets not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the CIS countries.
In addition, the construction of residential buildings along the streets of Baiterek, Aray, Mayakovsky will be completed in the regional center, and will also be commissioned in the coming days.
we have always been very close to the issue of cooperation in the field of military equipment, and this must continue today.
The festival will reflect not only the high level of circus art, but also cooperation at the international and national levels.
peace and harmony in our house, which our president is talking about, have developed on the basis of these good initiatives and positive changes, "he said.
I invite Serbian companies to participate in the project implementation and preparation for EXPO 2017. i invite serbian companies to take part in the implementation of spiid , as well as in the preparation and holding of world exhibition expo 2017 .
we offer a wide range of domestic production projects with great potential to a potential investor. "
Once competition comes first, we focus on the green economy and energy efficiency.
unemployed, low-income, self-employed and all citizens seeking work are invited to the fair.
Participants from Zhambyl, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan, South Kazakhstan region, East Kazakhstan region and Novosibirsk came to the event to promote cycling.
Representatives of the Ministries of Defense of Kazakhstan and Turkey discussed the development of cooperation in the field of joint modernization of the domestic production of automated control systems, armored vehicles, avionics, helicopters, weapons and military equipment.
It is noted that the meeting discussed the "homogeneity and unity" of the fourth direction.
now we are working on improving the new scientific and educational infrastructure. now we are working to improve the scientific and educational infrastructure .
work is under way on this plan.
here we will rely on the technological products and experience of the best world companies attracted to our country. we will rely on technological developments and experience of the best companies in the world , which will be attracted in our country .
According to him, the program will be attended by representatives of production enterprises, bachelors and other applicants who arrived without seniority.
rubber and plastic products, light industry products, metallurgical and chemical products.
if you look to the future, then in difficult periods of the foreign economic environment it is necessary to train people in state financing, "said V. Katsu.
In general, the devaluation of the yuan will lead to the growth of the economy of Kazakhstan, "the expert noted.
the region provides the capital's market with dairy products by 45%, meat products by 49%, eggs, potatoes and flour products by 100%.
reinforced concrete materials were seized from the construction plant LLP.
the express test was carried out for four days on the basis of training grounds of the 40th Matibulak military base (01098 a/b) and otar (30212 a/b).
To date, 14 million 825 people in Kazakhstan hold credit and credit cards, while, according to the National Bank, only 66 thousand taxpayers have terminals. today 's , holders of credit and debit cards in kazakhstan are 14,825,000 people , but at the same time , according to the national bank , at , only 66 million taxpayers have the appropriate pos-terminals .
the number of small and medium-sized enterprises grew by 1.3% and amounted to 91.8 thousand people in the first quarter of this year.
This year, the plan according to the state program is 7.1 million square meters.
For comprehensive work in this direction, the Kazakh Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs "Kazakhstan Center for Public-Private Partnership" will be involved.
it's a big celebration for you.
I am on behalf of the government to familiarize myself with the situation and assess the consequences of the flood. i have come to become familiar with the situation , and assess the impact of the mudflow .
According to him, as of July 1, 2015, the volume of BMK's pension assets amounted to about 5 trillion tenge, the growth was 9.1%.
at the Almaty House of Friendship, at a meeting with the leaders of ethnocultural associations, we discussed the role and significance of ethnocultural organizations in the implementation of this project, "he said.
the goal of our work is to find industries that are attractive for investment.
According to the minister, negotiations were conducted in four areas.
the parties discussed possible areas of cooperation.
unity and unity in institutional reform, "the implementation of the Big Country-Big Family project will contribute to the development of Kazakhstan's unity and civil society.
science, consulting, veterinary science, phytosanitary, infrastructure projects, social security and measures that do not affect the cost of products.
This year, the forum will be devoted to modern energy and political events on the agenda, changes in the oil and gas and energy markets. the forum will be devoted to the most significant events of contemporary energy and political agenda , the ongoing transformation of the oil and gas and energy market .
new partners, markets, investments will appear, "said Sh. Ismailov.
Investors of industrial enterprises are invited to this event. " Geminetsbaeva.
The head of the region noted that as part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, residents received modern apartments.
President of Kazakhstan on behalf of the American people Barack Obama congratulated the head of state on his birthday.
you know that these negotiations have dragged on.
As a result of the visionary policy of the head of state, Kazakhstan has gone a long way, which has covered deep socio-economic and political changes since independence.
two years ago, he produced 15 types of products, in 2015 - 40.
It should be noted that most of the projects are private business projects - 111 projects or 92.5%, including 22 projects with the participation of foreign investors.
we will bid at producer prices, "said A. Ramazanov.
According to him, in 2005-2006 there was a transition to engineering and technical specialties: biotechnology, nanotechnology, medical engineering.
And we planned to spend all these funds on many construction works, programs.
entrepreneurs have great opportunities for business development, and the district borders on the Kostanay, Karaganda and Kyzylorda regions.
The event was organized by representatives of the youth wing "zhas otan" of the East Kazakhstan regional branch of the Nұr Otan party and the East Kazakhstan regional branch of Kazavtodor JSC.
During the official visit of the head of state, a meeting was held with Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The Astana Opera Theater, located on the left bank of Ishim, is fond of its beauty.
At the same time, by the decision of the 16th meeting of the special commission under the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on June 24, 2015, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan was tasked to develop a program for improving violence among children, presented in schools of the East Kazakhstan region in the period from 2015 to 2016, he said.
After the meeting, the heads of the two capitals met with Latvian entrepreneurs.
the most important thing is to find additional resources that ensure economic growth. the most important issue - is to find additional sources for economic growth .
This year, 58 applications without good reason were not approved, as a conclusion, all these purchases were deducted. this year 58 unreasonable rejections of demands have been revealed , and as a result , all these purchases have been canceled , respectively 166 officials have been brought to justice .
According to Ayatollah Mohmise Mohammadi Araki, the city in the capital is a world platform for solving problems between religions and people.
According to him, Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will reduce duties to 25-030%.
thus, the territory consists of dry ports, logistics and industrial zones.
in our country, state symbols include the national flag, national emblem and national anthem.
according to the results of the first stage of the crews, Kazakhstan took first place, the second place went to the Russian team, and the third place went to the lease. following the results of the first stage , crews of kazakhstan ranked the first , the second place was taken by russian national team , and the third - armenia .
Chairman of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Atemeken Aulay Myrzakhmetov drew attention to the need for a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the adopted rules that allow increasing the investment attractiveness of business in Kazakhstan.
Participants are trained to develop the core competencies necessary for successful national project management activities.
the children collected different prototypes, this is a sea and oil tower. children create a variety of prototypes , they are robot rover and oil derrick .
The press conference will be attended by First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan Vladimir Shkolnik, Chairman of the Board of Kazmunaigaz uk literate mynbayev and Chairman of the Kazakhstan Fuel Association bulat auetayev.
we openly support the investments of American companies.
N.Nazarbayev noted that Jordan is a close country of Kazakhstan.
He informed about cultural life and tourism potential of Kazakhstan, invited to see the sights of the country.
this year we sent 30 2 people to the camp at the expense of the plant, "he said.
According to statistics, the state program of GBWC from year to year is in steady growing demand and confidence of the population of Kazakhstan.
member of the board (minister) in the main areas of integration and macroeconomics of the Eurasian Economic Commission in key areas of the Eurasian Economic Union.
At the summit in Dushanbe, issues of ensuring security in the Central Asian region and the Middle East situation were considered.
in addition, the conference will host the presentation of the book "Kazakhstan Trend: from totalitarianism to a democratic and legal state."
on your instructions and 100 steps. "
he noted that negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization have been completed.
- I believe that the reporting state, such as the budget of the state or the local rural district, should be open to the population.
He met with the Saryagash and the management staff in the seventies, met with employees of the military units of 2020 and 2037.
recently Kazakhstan has become very popular in the world.
In addition, the council contributes to the formation of working ties between relevant committees, parliamentary factions and political groups, "- assured K. Zhakpov.
It is planned to participate 100 countries, at least 10 international organizations, 10 leading companies in the field of innovative technologies.
on its basis, modern Kazakhstan was built.
During these years, our Government and experts worked to achieve favorable conditions for our country.
B. Amireyev spoke about Kazakhstan's achievements within the framework of international organizations, such as ekyu, anshk, yu, shu, an internationally recognized ethnic agreement, economic growth, and multilateral diplomacy.
It is planned to build 11 multi-storey houses, of which 3 are along the "beam road."
At the end of the meeting a. Berdimuhamedov invited interested Jordanian organizations and companies to take part in the VI international investment forum "astana invest-2015," which will be held in the capital on October 27-30 this year.
in particular, calculation and analytical complexes, ars-14kz, sanitary treatment complexes, radiation and chemical devices.
through the exchange of cross-party experience, we will understand the management system at the state level and strengthen the partnership, "said syu weisin.
President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev noted that the history of independence of Kazakhstan is connected with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Recall, on November 28, 2014, the President of the country signed the law "On Amending and Supplementing Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Tax Issues."
From the very beginning of the individual race, the main struggle in the "tank biathlon" unfolded between Kazakhstan and Russia.
As part of the project, gasification of the following settlements of the Kyzylorda region will be implemented: Ostrov, Baikonur, Ayteke bi, Zhanakorgan and Shieli.
on the further deepening of inter-parliamentary cooperation, as well as the expansion of ties between the regions of the two countries.
these shootings can be called a "combat initiative" of the young military.
As a result of this step, in 2020 we plan to conduct 30% of cargo transportation through the airspace of Kazakhstan, "the head of the department said.
So, to date, work has been completed on laying the foundation, the installation of metal structures is underway.
In conclusion, the head of state again drew attention to the fact that the upcoming exhibition is an important event for all Kazakhstanis.
every year, together with representatives of the armed forces of foreign countries, they take part in the exercises of the "steppe eagle," "unconquered brotherhood" and other exercises.
the event will also be reflected in the actions of the educational intelligentsia of Kazakhstan and the Turkic world.
The heads of Turkic-speaking states discussed topical issues of the Academy, created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev as an international organization.
thanks to integration processes and budget restrictions, we are increasing foreign investors, "he said.
we invite citizens to take part in monitoring the quality of public services themselves, "said the chairman of the Council of the Kazakhstan-2050 national movement.
the project is implemented within the framework of the regional industrialization map.
We are confident that in the next 2-3 years the cost of the project will be fully justified.
Kazakhstan is an established state.	it was the achievement of all the peoples of kazakhstan .	1,14
Architectural and historical monuments in Alma-Ata are being rebuilt, the appearance of the city is becoming more diverse, the akim said.
According to him, the bridge club initially supports less costly projects.
The construction project of Zheo-3 in Semey is one of the priority investment areas of the East Kazakhstan region.
The development budget of the region was executed on 91.0% or spent 8,182,9 million tenge out of the planned 8,994,2 million tenge, not spent 811.3 million tenge.
In addition, over the past three years, these colleges were equipped at the expense of the local budget in the amount of 323.2 million tenge and at the expense of the national budget - 125 million tenge.
In this regard, it is very advisable to study their contribution to the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, which will make it possible to comprehensively disclose Kazakh history, "the Secretary of State said.
Abdikalikova expressed gratitude for the great work to expand bilateral relations and personal contribution to the development of the negotiation process between Kazakhstan and the EU.
There is a lot of work ahead of us. ahead of us a lot of work .
this price will be comprehensively calculated.
An important direction in the development of the international financial center of the capital will be Islamic financing.	speaking about the development of an international financial center  astana , " the chairman of the national bank of kazakhstan has noted the importance of the direction of the development of islamic finance .
The sides discussed the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and the organization.
He also noted that an official decision was made on Vietnam's participation in expo 2017.
To date, all problems in the field of cooperation have been solved. as of now , there are no problems in the field of cooperation .
this is an idea of ​ ​ how cleopatra became the Egyptian queen.
at the end of the second stage, the production of high-octane gasoline at the plant will increase from 735 thousand to 2 186 thousand tons per year, diesel fuel - from 1346 thousand to 1946 thousand tons per year, aircraft fuel - from 280 thousand to 425 thousand tons per year.
This forum is dedicated to the national idea of ​ ​ the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev "eternal country."
Issues of bilateral cooperation were also discussed during the meeting.
Kazakhstan has entered a new phase of State-building related to 5 institutional reforms. kazakhstan has entered a new phase of nation-building , which is associated with five institutional reforms .
In particular, Kostanay State University in the Kostanay region includes two areas: mechanical engineering and food production, "said A. Koval.
these companies should be as open as possible and improve corporate and financial management.
The State provides full support to families.
it is also important for the partnership of our cities. " Jaksybekov.
If last year this plant received 30 thousand tons of grain of the "steppe crop," then this year this figure will double.
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the interlocutor with the internal policy of Astana, the socio-economic and foreign policy of recent years and the initiative of the leadership.
The Ambassador also familiarized the Egyptian representative with the currently important issues of the domestic political life of Kazakhstan, including the programs of President Nursultan Nazarbayev "bright path," "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing 5 institutional reforms, and festive events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The exhibition of the history of Kazakh law is held within the framework of the national museum.
individual revenues of kaztransoil for 9 months of 2015 amounted to 144.3 billion tenge, which is 9% more than for 9 months of 2014.
research is carried out in several stages: information, training and identification of risk groups.
at a forum the ideas "Were voiced the m g_l_k ate", strategy Kazakhstan-2050, patriotism of citizens and pride for the country, the nations, necessary for implementation of the plan, directed to realization of 5 institutional reforms.
now cars and trucks are exported to foreign markets.
the number of deputy chairman of the board decreased from 5 to 3, managing directors - from 9 to 4, the report said.
The forum was attended by civil servants, deputies of the regional maslikhat, representatives of non-governmental organizations, ethnocultural associations, cultural and art figures, scientists, activists and doctors, teachers, athletes, entrepreneurs, veterans of the Second World War and about 400 students.
During the event, the audience saw the production of "lamb - beauty," and the team of funny finds "pathetic young people."
we communicate with each other and know about culture, ethics, traditions.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also said that the general task is to more detail the cultural course of bilateral cooperation, to strengthen the friendship of the peoples of Kazakhstan and India.
these are housing construction, socially significant facilities, new roads, metro networks, industry and infrastructure of the metropolis.
the role of production support. "
work here is focused on one system, at a meeting of the national commission this issue will be considered and appropriate instructions given, "he said.
if we consider systemic issues, then the situation gives a different approach to further work on diversifying the economy, "said Issekeshev.
As a result, the total production of nmg and emg amounted to 6,219 thousand tons (168 thousand barrels per day), which is 2% more than in the same period of 2014.
Ayymbetov will go to the international space station with cosmonaut Sergei Volkov (Russian space) and astronaut Andreas Mogensen (European Space Agency).
The head of state noted that the country is implementing large-scale institutional reforms, state programs aimed at industrial-innovative and infrastructure development.
"Nursultan Nazarbayev said in a welcoming speech to the first graders.
I consider it necessary to further strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation and find opportunities for integration in various sectors of the economy, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the video presents modern sports facilities, the transport infrastructure of the city, the medeu rink, shymbulak.
Recall that the 14th meeting of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is taking place in the capital of Kazakhstan, in which representatives of spiritual organizations of Kazakhstan, as well as international organizations representing the religion of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, Taoism and Hinduism take part.
the successful chairmanship of Kazakhstan in ecu and boarding organizations, the holding of the Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital testifies to the increase in the authority of our country and the president in the international community.
Our troops will go to China on August 17-18 to begin joint training with the Chinese military.
now for us attracting visitors is our main task. attracting visitors - a problem number one .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan is an Asian country whose cultural and religious views differ from Western ones.
I. Unzhakova noted that the "eternal country" is a great hope for the spiritual growth of society, the "eternal country" is the strengthening of social integrity and the need for mutual agreement between Kazakhstanis.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that difficulties in the world economy affect the situation in the country.
our soldiers, who competed in swimming, judo, hand-to-hand wrestling, laundry sports, officer triathlon and shooting from regular weapons, won prizes.
including food, textiles, furniture, medical equipment, building materials.
I believe that accession to the WTO is the main step in the development of the economy of Kazakhstan. accession to the wto , i think , is a major step for the development of kazakhstan 's economy , we need to go enter new market .
today, the world requires new changes and changes.
the best Kazakh projects are collected here, "he said.
Delegates from these countries thanked the youth wing of the Nұr Otan party and expressed warm condolences.
this is the first place in the republic.
in the Taranov, Denisov regions, a harvest of 8-9 c per hectare is expected. in taranovsky , denisov district , we will harvest 8-9 centners per hectare .
Atameken. "
in particular, the issues of preserving jobs in the new economic conditions, developing new industrial facilities and creating an industrial zone around large extractive enterprises of the region were discussed.
As we plan, the ratification of the agreement will open up the possibility for Kazakhstan to receive Serbian investments. we believe that the agreement will provide opportunities for kazakhstan to get the serbian investments and joint business .
It is noted that the creation of the center is a contribution of Kazakh public organizations and international organizations to the implementation of the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy and preparations for EXPO-2017.
this issue has been placed under special scrutiny.
modern information technologies give us an opportunity, "the president said.
Recall that the main activity of the company is the promotion of domestic products, as well as the trade and development of its own distribution network in Kazakhstan.
According to the chairman of the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050," the programs of the President of Kazakhstan are aimed not only at supporting the economy, they are aimed at preserving the middle category.
The purpose of the ambassador's visit to Ireland was to develop cooperation between Kazakhstan and Ireland, attract new investments in the Kazakh economy, consider opportunities for the implementation of joint economic and cultural and humanitarian projects.
This large-scale event was attended by deputies of the national parliament, the best state and socio-political figures, representatives of couples, employees of international organizations and scientists.
The goal of the agreement is to create favorable conditions for international road transportation, the participation of the parties in the implementation of international road transportation and ensure mutual benefit in international road transportation, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev at the presentation of the bill.
the Principality of Monaco is a small, safe and rich state.
this opportunity is necessary in order to save time to receive information and create convenient conditions for our activities, "said the head of the Kazpost press service, Bairam Aziz.
According to him, fair coordination of water is before all the ecu member states, because this is a strategic resource and the main element of security.
we are discussing how human values ​ ​ can be strengthened here, "said Mohsen Mohammadi.
vector combine plant. "
articles are necessarily published. the articles will be published certainly .
According to N. Borambayeva, in the future, women will be able to use their business to earn money.
According to him, in the dog industry there are a number of orders in which companies can compete.
Work in this direction will continue, at the end of the year it is planned to fully implement memoranda on local content, "the report said.
these qualifications are being improved. these competencies are now being improved .
We remind that the cooperation between the two countries is carried out within the framework of the Kazakh-Egyptian joint intergovernmental commission on economic, scientific and technical cooperation.
At the same time, it should be taken into account that citizens do not suffer as much as possible, "the head of state said.
As you know, the competition "Slavic market" will be shown in all CIS countries.
Over the past 10 years, trade between Kazakhstan and the eu has increased 13 times, and the volume of European investments in the economy of Kazakhstan has increased 10 times.
The council regularly meets to discuss various issues, including barriers by officials, tax problems, the President of Kazakhstan said.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Belarus noted the achievements of Kazakhstan in the international arena and the role of President Nursultan Nazarbayev in the strong formation and development of the country, his valiant work in the implementation of the strategic idea of ​ ​ creation and activity.
this is part of our civic position.
the second stage is designed for 2016-2018.
During the trip to vicente, Lossertales visited the construction site of the expo and got acquainted with the progress of architectural and construction work, including in the expo town.
Over the same period last year, 70 microcredits worth 261.2 million tenge were issued, "S. Nareshov said.
discussion games develop expert, free thinking, while a lot of work is being done, and about 70 people who came to take part in the discussions can be brought as a demonstrator, "said A. Sabitov.
True, in the final match we had a very strong opponent, nevertheless, we won the main trophy and became champions! "said a special correspondent for the Capital TV channel.
According to Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev, the financing of trade exports is especially relevant for the current situation, since it makes it possible for Kazakhstani companies to maintain and increase the volume of export supplies.
The Eurasian Chamber participates in the implementation of the Kazakh-Polish joint project "kz-euro-pl" in Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Almaty, South Kazakhstan regions.
The forum participants discussed the prospects of economic and trade relations between the two areas and the mechanisms for their implementation.
Trans-Caspian international transport route (thkb) - a project created with the aim of developing the countries of the Caspian region and increasing transport potential.
Over three years, privatization has been carried out, the largest investments in central Asia have been attracted.
The event was attended by representatives of Latvian state bodies, deputies of the Sejm and the city of Riga, heads of diplomatic missions, business circles, experts and representatives of gardens.
According to the regional branch of Kazavtodor JSC, the contracting organizations completely studied all the destroyed places on the bridges and changes on the highways and began repairing roads.
the first army international games are major competitions in field, air and sea skills.
it is a sovereign and democratic republic.
Foreign Minister of San Marino highly appreciated the desire of Kazakhstan and the position of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who proposed a special platform for negotiations with participation in the settlement of Ukrainian and Syrian conflicts, the report said.
the first is the basic package provided by the state of guaranteed medical care, funded from the republican budget.
Deputy Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan proposed to consider the possibility of organizing visits at the highest level between the two countries in order to develop cooperation in the field of tourism, education, culture and sports.
I think that in this way we will further strengthen relations between the states of fraternal nationalities, "said the President of the Kyrgyz Republic.
such an approach is important for a civil servant who will hold responsible political positions in the future. this is a specific filter for civil servants , who may move to responsible political positions .
representatives of the judicial system of England, Switzerland, France, China, Korea and other countries take part in it.
The work of the delegation includes formal meetings, negotiations and the exchange of experience at the Smithsonian Institution, the National Stock Association for the Preservation of Historical Sites, George Washington University, the New Mexico Petroglyph National Monument.
100 percent owner of samruk-kazyn shares.
We believe that the new club will be able to please its fans with new achievements, "said the head of the board.
It is worth noting that the monaco ukraine group provides premium services.
On the second day of the visit, the Secretary of State also met with the Foreign Minister of Japan.
reform - economic growth and industrialization - are aimed at creating conditions for attracting investors in the region, "the minister added.
For 8 months of 2015, 13 projects were launched in Aea for a total of 58.6 billion tenge.
I want to propose a number of concrete steps: firstly, we invested from India to Kazakhstan.
concerts were held in significant halls of Kazakhstan.
representatives of the national commission held 24 meetings in 14 regions of the country with the participation of scientists, prominent public figures, representatives of central and local state bodies, youth and public and parental organizations, on many other issues of spiritual and moral development, pregnancy, raising children, foster care for children who have lost their breadwinner.
I head the ethnocultural center in Pavlodar.
at the invitation of the holding, thematic companies from Finland, Germany, Italy came to the construction site.
The first is the implementation of the Eurasia project, which cnpc became interested in.
The constitution hall is dedicated to the work of scientists, students, schoolchildren, readers of libraries, books, as well as lovers of the history of the state, the report said.
methodical classes, as well as socio-legal and staff training, seminars, lectures, instructor-methodical indicators and training sessions are held for military personnel.
the launch of the project and the modernization of production will create previous and new jobs.
He noted that this company has good experience in attracting tourists.
our scientists, historians and archaeologists continue their work, and we have the right to expect that the history of the development of our statehood is even deeper, "the rector emphasized.
According to the interlocutors, the signed interstate agreements are designed to strengthen mutual cooperation between the two countries and make an important contribution to the fight against crime, ensuring law and order.
this is a big step forward.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the results of the talks showed that relations between our countries have great prospects.
It should be noted that during the event the head of state noted that "we are purposefully working on five reforms, the existing government apparatus and deputies of parliament are functioning.
this year they improved their management skills, achieved accuracy in shooting. for a year , they significantly improved management skills , shooting accuracy , " - the commander said .
Of course, we support strong candidates.
It is planned to implement about 60 projects worth more than 90 billion tenge in the region.
the second is a healthy family.
the people of Kazakhstan agree thanks to their vision.
Consequently, we will see an increase in competition in domestic engineering, "said M. Pishchbaev.
the geography of trade relations has changed significantly.
"The techconnect astana forum is a platform for deepening cooperation between countries.
Within the framework of the institution, a football stadium with 240 seats is provided, "the report said.
In the third direction of the program, 13.8 thousand people were provided with vocational training, 8.2 thousand citizens were employed in social jobs.
for the author to write about the President of Kazakhstan is a great honor and great responsibility, because everything must be objective and reasonable, "said Z.fedotov.
So, this year, 1,500 teachers will receive remuneration from the local budget, of which 1000 young specialists will receive 150 thousand tenge, 500 best teachers - 300 thousand tenge.
Since the beginning of the year, the size of the state special allowance on lists No. 1 and No. 2 has increased and amounted to 18,671 and 16,610 tenge, respectively.
we worked hard for 19 years to achieve this result, negotiations were not easy.
this made it possible to implement important projects and measures in the social sphere. it made possible to implement important projects and to take measures to prevent inflation .
The rules take into account the best Khalkari practice and all proposals of experts of authorized bodies, representatives of the business community, the report said.
they must not resist him.
the text of the law is published in the press.
During the event, representatives of white "national information technologies" demonstrated the work of the open government, open data portals, the work of the blogs of the first go managers, as well as open data applications and the photo2gov application.
Nұr zhol is the way to the future. "
According to the head of the region, the plant has no competitors in Kazakhstan and the CIS.
international competitions will be held in Moscow from July 24 to August 5 of this year.
The Minister of Finance informed about the state budget implementation and measures to reform the tax and customs administration system.
The head of state spoke about the actions of our country in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, expressed an opinion on the current situation in Ukraine and on events around it, as well as on ways to solve the Syrian problem.
North Kazakhstan region is one of the agrarian regions of the country. north kazakhstan region is mainly agricultural region .
the bill provides for amendments and additions to the Code "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Budget Payments," legislation in the field of construction.
Preschool organization No. 47 "nur-ai" will open in the Zarechny-4 housing estate as part of the Balapan republican program.
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan was a country defined and transit for immigrants.
During the visit, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of African Integration, Francophine and the Benin Diaspora Saliou Akdry, the Minister of Education and Tourism of the Republic Paul Haune, the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Energy br spero mensah and Benin experts met.
the third is the creation of a shu prediction center.	the expert added :  the third - is to create the sco prediction center .
The mother's house is closely connected with all perinatal centers and maternity hospitals of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
among the approved projects - "acquisition of the equipment and special equipment for conducting exploration works" by Azimouth geologiya LLP, "construction of public baths" of limited liability partnership "public baths".
we need to bring our legislation to the international level, this is very important, "said the deputy.
According to him, in the future, the investment policy of the BZhZ will be clarified through a council headed by the head of state.
According to the mayor of Moscow, the Partnership Program for 2016-2018 will strengthen the relationship between the two capitals in a number of sectors: city administration, health care, and the development of information technology.
we will create a joint venture where the share of the corporation will be 51%, "said yue chang.
China agreed to financially ensure the construction and modernization of roads inside Kazakhstan, "he added.
they will shape and guide the career of the civil service.
The 24-meter monument "defenders of the fatherland" is poured with 63 tons of bronze.
The main factor in the development of socio-cultural tourism is the promotion of the historical and cultural development of the country. the most important factor in the development of social and cultural tourism is to promote the historical and cultural development of the country .
In anticipation of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, work is underway on the development of renewable energy sources, environmental tourism and innovative knowledge.
aa. Idrissov reported on the kazaid agency established to provide technical assistance to a number of Central Asian countries.
the amount of express guarantee from March of this year increased from 60 to 180 million tenge.
unfortunately, new single-industry towns are reducing their activity, it continues and can increase. unfortunately , the trend to the fact that the new monotowns will reduce its activity will continue and may even intensify .
I believe that today it is important to have such a foundation, "said the Director General of UNESCO.
J. Kerry lectured at Nazarbayev University, during which he noted the democratic economy, the national plan of Kazakhstan and the development of the world ecology.
The eternal country is the main guiding idea that is aimed at uniting the whole of Kazakhstan, "he said.
Of these, 29 projects worth 26.0 billion tenge have been launched to date.
For Kazakhstan, in the transition to a "green economy," the refusal to use water in the production process is decisive, "he said. burial.
Contractors with extensive experience in Kazakhstan were involved in the construction.
Since the beginning of the year, the manufacturing industry produced products worth 377.6 billion tenge.
The state needs the same star.
In addition, in order to launch a new financial product, changes were made to the internal rules of many credit processes, in particular, new concepts of "consolidated financing," "bank syndicate" were introduced, and the procedure for considering projects planned for financing from consolidated loans was regulated in detail.
we hope for long-term and productive cooperation with Serbia, corresponding to new opportunities in the world economy, "K. Makimov concluded.
This year, Kazzinc plans to produce more of all types of metal than last year.
If we pay close attention to the new history of Kazakhstan, we will witness the adoption of about 20 programs for modernization, formation, development over the past 20 years. if we look closely the recent history of kazakhstan , we see that over the past more than two decades about two dozen economic programs for modernization , formation , development and so on were made .
this is an unprecedented program in which you can find the future development and the entire history of Kazakhstan.
Let's remind, athletes-wrestlers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Russia, Belarus and Armenia take part in the first military-sports games of friendly troops of CIS.
Kazakhstan is doing everything possible for this, "the head of state said.
Under this program, the production corporation financed 1645 producers for 16.5 billion tenge, covered 2.8 million hectares of grain space.
As for the championship, boxers from China, India and the DPRK are not bad.
the Australian company fully finances the geological research and exploration of the subsoil of the state.
the forum is organized by the Korean Research Institute of Vocational Education and Training (Krivet, South Korea) and the "Republican Scientific and Methodological Center for the Development of Technical and Vocational Education and Qualification Assignment" with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this is not just a competition of cars and crews, it is friendship between countries, "said Colonel General Oleg Salyukov, Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Russian Armed Forces.
the floating rate of tenge is the state and image of our economy. free-floating exchange rate - it is a reflection of the situation of our economy .
The Astana Opera House is interesting not only for its wealth, but also for its architectural appearance.
in addition, bakytzhan sagintayev and oleg pankratov considered the possibility of creating investor councils of the two countries, increasing the export of Kyrgyz agricultural goods to Kazakhstan, issues of transport, water management, and the development of tourist destinations.
The press conference will be attended by the Secretary General of the International Bureau of Exhibitions Vicente Lossertales and Commissioner expo-2017, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs rapil zhoshybayev.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, in recent years Afghanistan has gone a very difficult way.
he noted that the capital has always been a symbol of rapidly developed Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, such important issues as drug trafficking, the fight against crime, terrorism, corruption and other signs of extremism will be discussed.
the pope is not expected to arrive, "said M. Azilkhanov.
Director of the center of consulting of the capital, member of the working group on the development of the law on access to information of aliyah duganov:
At the same time, it should be noted that international terrorism affects the situation in many countries and completely affects the regions, "the President of Kazakhstan emphasized.
Therefore, the team will include domestic athletes, "the athlete explained.
sand blocks, ribs, logs, curbs, lawns will be produced here.
within the framework of the negotiations, a memorandum on political consultations between the foreign ministries of the two countries was also signed.
D. During the meeting, the Batrashev presented the main tasks for the implementation of five institutional reforms announced by the head of state, the Kazakhstan 2050 strategy and the new Nұrly Zhol economic policy.
The Ambassador also noted that during the VIII Astana Economic Forum in May this year the head of state presented a new initiative on integration and active cooperation of Eurasian and European unions and the creation of a new transport corridor connecting China and southeast Asia with Europe.
at this time, legislation was developed.
As of January 1, 2015, 80% of this amount was used.
As of June 1, 27 thousand 590 schoolchildren were transported, of which 24 thousand were provided with daily transportation, more than 3 thousand children lived in school camps.
specializes in the production of synthetic detergents, food phosphate and phosphate additives in this export operation "fosfa a.s. "signed a contract with a large Czech company.
Nursultan Nazarbayev once again recalled the importance of unity and harmony in Kazakhstan.
submit documents through public service centers and the "e-government" portal "egov" or submit to the Center for International Programs JSC.
the product produced under Kazakh brands is called "taldysu."
such practices exist in Europe and south-east Asia. this experience is available in developed countries .
I congratulate you on the new academic year and wish you a successful year, "said K. Shamshidinova.
the international tournament ended in Shymkent.
It is worth noting that as part of the implementation of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020" in 2014, 40 and 60 apartment buildings, three 100-apartment residential buildings were introduced in the 32nd microdistrict in the white direction "Zhilstroysberbank."
you know our countries quite well.
volume growth shows an increase in food production by 16.4%, chemistry - by 0.7%, metallurgy - by 22.3%, "said R. Melalov.
The bill provides for amendments to 8 laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the industrial practice of students, the right to receive free work of the first specialty, dual education and the model of 12-year education are legislated, "said the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by the leadership of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, akim of Almaty region Amandyk Batalov.
in the Borodulikhin, Deepovsky, Krupsky, Tarbagatai regions, the supplier for the delivery of textbooks and textbooks is kmm "oriental education."
it is important to know when statehood was created.
the share of wholesale and retail trade enterprises in the total volume of products and services provided; at enterprises for the repair of cars and motorcycles - 30.2%, at industrial enterprises - 22.8%, in construction - 14.4%.
From January 30 to February 6 of this year, visiting meetings with the participation of government members were held in all regions of Kazakhstan, to date, 928 memoranda on local content have been signed in the amount of 1.4 trillion tenge. during the period from 30 january to 6 february this year all regions of kazakhstan held visiting meetings with members of the government .
today Kazakhstan-2050. "
The meeting will be chaired by the President of KazSTU, Doctor of Economics, Academician N.Abikayev.
we try to attract domestic producers to these projects as much as possible, "said a.arystav.
we must create immunity to the process of destruction that we see, "he said.
Nұrly zhol - the path to the future and the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," aimed at implementing 5 institutional reforms, cannot be implemented without the participation of women, especially in the economy.
we have excellent Kazakh designers, photographers, stylists, image makers, which the country is proud of. we have many talented kazakhstani designers , photographers , stylists , image makers .
Today, the following organizations are members of tbso: Vietnamese register, Kazakhstan register of shipping, Korean classification society, register of Cuban ships, intermaritaym certified service (Panama Republic), istmus buro of shipping (Panama Republic), Russian river register, Slovak lloyd, Ukrainian register of shipping.
As the head of the kazatomprom noted, a personnel fund has been created to attract professional specialists to the company.
The event was attended by 154 people, 72 of whom were participants in intellectual olympiads of the republican and international level.
As a result of the cooperation of the Eurasian group of LLP, we achieved the production of new products, "said the head of the Almaty ventilation plant marat bakkulov.
new educational programs will be developed with the participation of foreign partner universities and are based on specific projects of the iidb-2 republican and regional industrialization maps, the deputy minister added.
the artistic director of the orchestra is our compatriot - laureate of international competitions.
It is worth noting that in connection with Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, the interest of European states in our country is growing.
Are you planning to introduce or submit the project to construction companies during the project development process?
Deputy Prime Minister b.saparbayev took part in the solemn event.
The largest constructive work was carried out in the region to study natural zones, identify problematic lands from them, and calculate future development paths, "he said.
During the meeting, representatives of the defense departments of the two countries discussed the state, prospects and development of military cooperation between the naval forces of the two countries.
at the Eurasian National University, students of the capital take tests.
It is noted that the program provides for a plenary session, panel session work, a panorama of innovative ideas (protection of wall materials of the regions, the exchange of distribution and methodological and illustrative-didactic materials, the organization of the exhibition), the release of a collection of materials from the August Pedagogical Council, as well as the awarding of the winners of the competition "Best Specialized Education Organization."
an eternal country is the way to the future, it is the future of our nation, "added E. machine.
the sun, its meadow, eagle and the image of the national golden ornament.
By a decree of the head of state, Yermol Turmakhanovich Orynbaev was relieved of his post as assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we introduce such disciplines as talent management, strategic management, leadership, etc. into our educational program, "A. Mukhamedzhanova explained.
Following the talks, an agreement was reached between Astana Expo 2017 and the Center for Tourism Innovation of Sweden.
Since January 1, 22 thousand tons of gasoline have been imported and another 11 thousand tons are on the roads, about 80 thousand contracts.
In addition, the river-birch-kurgan international transport corridor and whitewash port function, "said the deputy akim of the region.
Islam against terrorism. "
the parties discussed the issue of removing sanitary-quarantine, veterinary-sanitary and quarantine phytosanitary control (supervision) on the Kazakh-Kyrgyz state border.
this initiative was included in the final documents "the future as we want."
All projects are related to reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Following the results of the event, the text of the message in Armenian "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" and materials on the socio-economic and socio-political development of Kazakhstan were distributed.
in a short period of time, the "Shanghai spirit" became a symbol of the new Eurasia.
During the meeting, a constructive dialogue was held on topical issues of respect for human rights.
All investors in our country are interested in the judicial system. all investors who come to the country are interested in the judicial system .
Therefore, for this it is a holiday, an important event.
global nuclear disarmament prevents the use of nuclear weapons in terrorist attacks, "the speaker said.
At the meeting, an order of the law "On Amendments and Additions to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the State Budget for 2015-2017 "was adopted.
and even the railway administrations of the CIS countries have a lot of habits, "said the head of the center for domestic policy and the development of corporate culture" mercury "nigor mirzakarimova.
Nature, culture, technology, everyday life, everything is perfectly shot.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Development, during 2015-2019, 257 regional and republican projects will be implemented, the need for personnel will be 46 thousand people, "he said.
At the 3-day standard, guests and residents will be presented with works by artists from France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Spain, Russia and Kazakhstan.
To date, 60 companies have been restored, of which 30 have been inspected by specialists of international organizations included in the steam system. nowadays 60 companies have already been registered , 30 companies of them have been inspected by the experts of the international organizations that are part of the un system .
The event was held with the participation of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of China Chen Goping, Chairman of the Committee for the Promotion of Cooperation of the "Southeast" Lui Xinhua, representatives of embassies and business circles registered in China, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
we can introduce these technologies, despite any global economic changes, "he said.
we have seen that the emergence of many States has not led to a better State, and the new history of Kazakhstan can be a lesson for many States. we have seen that the formation of a new statehood in many countries was tragic , against this background , the recent history of kazakhstan can teach an important lesson to many new countries .
All the people of Kazakhstan visited this parade and were proud of the country's armed forces.
Holding the international exhibition Expo-2017 will provide technological leadership of our country and will glorify the world with the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of alternative energy.
prior to this, 900 km transit, these are 500 and 220 kilovolt 120 kilometers of lines and 220 kilovolt stations for 500 km, "he said.
they all love music and participate in various competitions, "said the mother of the family.
This year we introduced a new "sports ballroom dance," said the head of the culture department of Astana.
military hospital surgeons are currently studying new methods of diagnosis, surgical and conservative treatment.
According to him, this will allow to develop a single course on what is happening in the world.
In addition, the functioning of such professional training and a scientific and methodological center will increase the qualifications of judges at a high level, "he said.
the activities of the service are carried out through a skype program with the participation of qualified psychologists.
he noted that "I am confident that the results of our today's negotiations, as well as those during your visit to Kiev, will contribute to the intensification of partnership between our countries, trade, economic, humanitarian, social, and most importantly, political cooperation."
The Prime Minister of Italy emphasized that in addition to economic cooperation, both countries advocate the idea of ​ ​ preserving peace on the planet, mutual understanding between people, and mutual contact of cultures.
littal thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for creating favorable conditions for foreign investors.
Today, the ministry identifies priority sectors of the economy and trains specialists for them.
secondly, it is necessary to adopt a security strategy in the Shui space, "said Syroezhkin.
Mayor of Astana, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017. Dzhaksybekov thanked the French delegation and the commissioner for their initiative and expressed confidence that cooperation will be fruitful.
It is worth noting that the bill under consideration was developed in order to implement the national plan - "100 concrete steps," including 58,65,66,67 and 68 steps.
in particular, world history for all specialties: physics, chemistry, biology, geography, geography, "military affairs and security."
According to the Department of Economics and Finance of the region, growth in the manufacturing industry amounted to 14.6%.
press conference "Social adaptation of those serving sentences and registered with the probation service."
The Head of State named a number of negative factors, which over the long term may have an impact on the Kazakh economy.
The meeting was attended by the First Vice-Minister of Health and Social Development s.k. Ayyrbekova, heads of higher educational institutions and scientific institutions in the field of medicine, rural doctors, innovative doctors, doctors of primary health care and sanitary aviation, specialists of pharmacy.
this was voiced in the garden, in this direction tightening continues.
According to the results of the survey, the level of satisfaction with the interlocutors of judicial activity amounted to 71.3%, - said N. ergaliev.
In 2014, 3,154 graduates (16.4%) received a result above 77,100 points.
these are architects, economists, political scientists, leaders of non-governmental organizations, entrepreneurs and other active citizens.
it is important to meet with representatives of world and traditional religions, to discuss issues of force response and countering terrorism and extremism.
A work plan has been prepared in close cooperation with the government, which consists of 67 bills, 10 of which were proposed by our deputies.
More than 800 children and their families have received full support through "saucy family outreach projects."
Within the framework of the cultural program, the national cultural day of Kazakhstan was organized, within the framework of which an exhibition of photo books with concerts and national dishes was held.
Minister for Economic and Financial Policy T. Suleimenov spoke about the principles and prospects of the Eurasian Economic Union, the structure and mechanisms of the EAEU, as well as the activities of such institutional bodies as the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, the Eurasian Economic Commission.
basically, Kazakhstan airports comply with international standards - they perform the main function. generally speaking , the kazakhstani airports comply with international standards .
In particular, joint projects in the gas, energy, petrochemical and pharmaceutical spheres were noted.
Since last year, a program to support the processing industry has been implemented as part of Nұrly zhol.
During the meeting, Zhoshybayev made a report on preparations for EXPO-2017.
Over the past three months Almaty Mayor's Office has held about 60 meetings with potential investors of Switzerland, Poland, Germany, Austria, Turkey, Romania, Lithuania and other countries.
At the same time, we are developing our medium-term plan and investment program taking into account low oil prices, "he explained.
he noted the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and the holy throne.
all agricultural producers depend on bank loans, subsidies, electricity, utilities.
Earlier, the enlarged meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan was held on May 5, 2015.
according to the agreement, transport logistics, transportation of block trains, projects for the development of the infrastructure of the warehouse-terminal in the special economic zone "Khorgos - East Gate" are carried out jointly by the parties.
During the meeting, the head of the region of this century. Kulagin emphasized that the Czech Republic is an important political and economic partner of our country in the international arena.
among them are sedentary, Turkestan, Sauran and Gypsy, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the study of State and foreign languages, military discipline and enhanced physical training.
in particular, anti-inflammatory, painkillers and overheating-suppressing drugs, some types of antibiotics, as well as syringes and gauze.
The congress will be attended by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, UN Secretary General, as well as ecu leaders, UNESCO and other representatives of various religions and heads of authoritative international organizations.
As noted by B.Sagintayev, the following branches of cooperation are oilfield service, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, production of construction materials.
their share in the industrial volume of the region is 5.8%, in the manufacturing industry - 6.5%.
Afghanistan, Belarus, India, Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan now have observer status as Shu, Turkey and Sri Lanka as dialogue partners.
In addition, he noted that during the congress two plenary sessions and four panel sections will be held, which will discuss the relationship between the heads of religions and politicians and their joint responsibility to humanity.
his congratulations from the city of Astana b.shalabayev, b.zhumagulov, pilot-engineer of the 1st class n.akmukans, r.shildabayev, Shymkent o.kubekbayev, as well as a group of citizens of Kokshetau wished Nursultayev good health, well-being and success.
Following the discussion, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions to the government and entrusted the secretariat of the security council with monitoring their implementation.
We will continue to work in this direction, create a roadmap of presentations for next year. we will continue this work next year , now we create a presentation roadmap .
they have large sales, a large volume of exports, proper financial and marketing management, "said kuandyk bishimbayev, chairman of the board of Baiterek holding.
The minister called another tool the road map signed by the presidents of the two countries last year.
Recall that the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions began its work in the capital.
in this case, it is immediately visible which production works efficiently and which is inefficient.
By the end of the year, it is planned to bring this figure to 100% and ahead of schedule complete the state program "chicken," he said.
religious leaders are responsible to society. religious leaders have responsibility .
every year and month it is modernized, the artistic level increases.
the share of Kazakh materials is about 40-45%.
the existing code is applied. the current code of ethics is declarative .
The Governor's Office of the city has a secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, we work with them.
many companies are in default.
they took part in the tournament as fans.
In this regard, the importance of strengthening cooperation between the ministries of defense of the two countries was noted.
According to the press service of the Prime Minister, K. Massimov wished the championship participants "new sporting achievements and victories, as well as a successful game at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro."
these transport arteries will bind Asia, Europe, the Caucasus and Middle Eastern countries.
As of June 1, 2015, the growth "in the number of recipients of social assistance amounted to 11 families with 52 members.
today ethnocultural associations are a powerful institution of civil society in Kazakhstan, which not only preserve traditions, culture and language, but also are a golden bridge of interstate communication. "
All opportunities are provided for working with small financial organizations, "the minister said.
This is very important, because in Kazakhstan now republican tourist rallies are organized only in Kokshetau, East Kazakhstan, Almaty and West Kazakhstan regions in the summer, "said one of the organizers.
he made a congratulatory speech at the international scientific and practical conference "From the bowels of history to the present."
The organizers of ioi-2015 are the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republican Scientific and Practical Center "Daryn," the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi.
This year, 313.2 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the maintenance of roads with a total length of 157.6 kilometers, including 57 million tenge for road marking, 42.4 million tenge for the maintenance of the drainage system, 74.9 million tenge for the ongoing repair of pits. this year the local budget has allocated 313.2 million tenge to the road maintenance , the total length of which is 157.6 km from , including more than 57 million tenge - to the marking of roads , 42.4 million tenge - to the maintenance of drainage system , 74 , 9 million tenge - to hold the current patching .
If last year 171 thousand students attended the school, then this year their number increased by 6846 people.
the seminar was attended by renowned international experts and consultants.
In addition, 21 kindergartens (investments of more than 400 million tenge) have been opened in the region for 5 months of this year as part of the "Worship of the native land" campaign, 47 more are planned to be opened by the end of 2015.
Dear Chairman, I greatly appreciate your initiative because I believe that this is your contribution to the development of cooperation between the two countries.
including the creation of the Khorgos-East Gate free economic zone in the zone bordering China, the importance of building a "dry port," the contribution of Kazakh-Chinese joint ventures to the region's economy.
fans from the universities of London, Sheffield, Reading, Manchester, Unified, Warwick universities and guests from Kazakhstan came to support the participants in the competition.
A total of 643 applications were registered, a decision on legalization was made on 189, 431 were withdrawn, 23 were considered.
I am confident that the Council of Religious Leaders plays an important role in strengthening world spiritual and mentoring values, developing mutual understanding, and building harmony between religions and cultures. i am sure that the council of religious leaders will play an important role in strengthening of the global moral values , mutual understanding , harmony between religions and cultures .
During the meeting, the parties also discussed proposals for mutual cooperation in investment policy.
when we talk about Kazakhstani compliance on the basis of the civil principle, we confidently declare that Kazakhstan is an independent, formed state, whose citizens are equal citizens regardless of ethnic, racial, social and other characteristics or religious views. when we talk about kazakhstan 's identity on the principles of citizenship , we can clearly affirm that kazakhstan is an independent , established state and its people are equal citizens regardless of their ethnic , social , racial or other different origin and religion .
In order to develop infrastructure projects in the automotive industry, the company is trying to receive loans/loans/loans worth about $2.5 billion.
this indicates a positive assessment by foreign investors of Kazakhstan's risks.
the program you have proposed, "as well as five institutional reforms, give a special impetus to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the main place of production of Kazakh grain is Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, co, CIS, North Africa.
So, people have alienable property, they need stability, they do everyday work and strive for the better, "said D. Zhumin.
he familiarized the participants with the stages of development of Eurasian integration projects, the economic potentials of the EAEU member states, the goals and mechanisms of the Eurasian Economic Commission to create a common policy in the areas of economics, pharmaceuticals, transport, finance, and electronics, gas, oil and petroleum products markets, industry and the agro-industrial complex, the provision of single services.
In conclusion, the Mayor of Almaty read out to the winners a letter from the President of the International Federation of Student Sports (fisu) Claude-louis galen.
As part of the meeting, Mrs. Emiroglu gave an excellent assessment of the state program for the development of health care for 2016-2020.
the source of our legal system, our new statehood should be sought in historical values. the origin of our legal system , new state can be found in the historical heritage .
It is noted that in terms of the number of small active enterprises from the regions, JPOs (8.4%, growth - 0.1%) and the Karaganda region (stable 8.1%) lead.
confirmation of development ratings confirms that the fund is a "decisive" structure implementing the strategy of the Baiterek group of companies, which will provide timely assistance to it in case of any problems in the fund aimed at supporting the diversification and development of the Kazakh economy, "the agency said.
the decrease in crime for 6 months of this year amounted to 27%, the share - 2.5%.
Because these are the funds of the republican budget, "he said.
With the support of the state, Aktobe can take such measures and increase the export volumes of domestic X-ray equipment, "said Sergey feoktisov, head of the Akturentgen white export department.
flat dark edging was carried out in the framing of the coin, in addition, there is a carved cross "2016," denoting the year the coin was minted, the words "oriental calendar," "oriental calendar" in Russian and "oriental calendar" in English are carved in the state language.
prior to this, on May 29 of this year, activists of the movement, together with the wheels brothers mc motorcycle club, began autotopying in the aul.
today, transportation from Chongqing (China) to Europe is underway. now there is transportation from the city of chongqing ( china ) to europe , " s.anashkin said .
This is an important event not only for the university, which celebrates its 5th anniversary.
The purpose of the film is to popularize EXPO-2017 abroad, attract international participants and tourists to the exhibition in the capital, "the statement said.
net international reserves of the national bank increased by 0.3% to US $28.3 billion.
As noted at the meeting, at the end of the year the financial statements are balanced, revenues to the budget amounted to 5,989 billion tenge or 99.4% of the adjusted plan.
among the most important exhibits are artifacts, baths, stone products, gold products.
All information is recorded in the journal book.
commissioning of the new enterprise is planned at the end of August. the new facility will be opened in the end of august .
By the end of the year, we plan to sign an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu.
also submitted by applicants are projects aimed at marketing innovations and improving organizational/management processes.
The theme of the exhibition is the energy of the future, new installations and design, "said B. Ashimov.
for the first time we can say that points in Russian (80.3) with pass points in Kazakh (79.2). we can state that score of the russian language schools ( 80.3 ) and kazakh language schools ( 79.2 ) are almost equal this year .
According to him, volunteers provide free assistance.
President of the Swiss Confederation, head of the Swiss Department of Justice and Police spoke at the opening ceremony of the simonette, Swiss Attorney General Michael Lauber and President of the International Association of Prosecutors Gerhard Yaros.
and the rest import more than they export, that is, they are net importers, "the expert explained" kaznex invest. "
a new school is new goals, so we wish all students of our country success in the new school year, "he concluded.
among the districts was the "yesil" area.
an important role in this direction is given to the "Nazarbayev University," which has established close relations with a number of American universities, carnegie mellons, Duke University, Pittsburgh and Harvard universities.
The following projects will be implemented at the expense of the funds raised: the center-south project from Karaganda to jackets, the center-west project from the capital to Astrakhan, as well as oblong-grassy areas, "said A. Bekov.
The sporting event provides for overcoming obstacles in four stages - training, children's, youth and professional.
I congratulate all participants on the solemn ceremony of obtaining a diploma of Nazarbayev University. i sincerely congratulate all the participants of the ceremony .
Thanks to this, I became the winner today, "said Adina Imanbayeva.
According to the industrialization map, 308.7 projects worth 40 billion tenge were implemented in the region, 1 thousand 890 jobs were created.
ratification of the agreement will contribute to the further strengthening of good-neighbourly relations between Kazakhstan and China and the development of bilateral cooperation.
At the initiative of the head of state, this year we celebrate the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate. at the initiative of the president of the country , this year we celebrate the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
Kazakhstan, forming a people, in the history of mankind has reformed the social harmony between society and power. having created the apk , kazakhstan for the first time in the history of mankind has institutionalized a social agreement between the state and society , i would like to emphasize this .
The event was attended by the Chairman of the Board of the Huawei Sun Yafang Corporation, the Chairman of the Board of the Tsinghua Corporation, the Secretary General of the Multilateral Interim Secretariat of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank Jin Lycun, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Shitik Group Corporation, the President of the Chinese State Development Bank ZhZhZhZhand other leading Chinese executives
there will be classes in transport logistics, communications, international law, mechanical engineering.
now is the time to introduce new deep mining technologies and diversify our economy.
I invited the distinguished Nursultan Nazarbayev to visit Ukraine on a state visit next year. i invited mr. nazarbayev to come to ukraine the next year .
also during the meeting n. Issues of cooperation between the Nazarbayev Foundation for Culture, Education and Social Programs and the Development Fund in other areas possible were discussed.
ignorance of their rights, low awareness is due to the low involvement of citizens in social and public life, "said Svetlana Romanovskaya.
we are forming not only a humanitarian bridge, but also an economic one.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan also cooperate on issues of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan. we see a collision between the different people and countries , such as syria , iraq , yemen , pakistan .
During the meeting, rapil zhoshybayev met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar Khaled and Mohammed al-Atya.
It is noted that the interview for the participants will be held from August 11 to 13 in the building of the central apparatus of the party "Nұr Otan."
In his speech, he noted that within the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol," 7 road projects with a length of 11 thousand km are planned, which will connect the capital of the country with the regions on the principle of stagnation and provide work for 200 thousand people.
The topic of this working visit was regional fishing, the situation from Afghanistan and the Middle East.
tests of the new variety lasted several months. testing of the new variety was carried out within a few months .
the image of the White Orda Palace reflects the artistic image of Kazakhstan's independence.
your participation in the meeting and acceptance of proposals led to an improved investment climate and an optimal system of our legislation. thanks to your participation in the council , your proposals , recommendations , we were able to achieve a significant improvement in the investment climate , our laws have changed for the better , and you see it .
The cost of the project amounted to 542.2 million tenge, "the report said.
transport corridors and hubs are developing well in Kazakhstan. kazakhstan develops actively transport corridors and hubs .
The President of Kazakhstan once again thanked the Prime Minister of India for the invitation to visit the country on the first official visit.
do their own business, initiate various projects, take risks and create values ​ ​ for consumers. doing your own business , initiate projects , take risks , create value for consumers is truly great work , worthy of respect and full support .
there are support measures that we are considering and preparing, they should not contradict the adopted Kazakhstan agreements.
at the ceremony, all primary school students will be presented with the book "My Homeland-Kazakhstan" on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan.
The event was attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, official representatives of state bodies, representatives of regional and republican parks, representatives of ethnocultural associations, experts from China, Russia, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Latvia, as well as domestic experts in the field of mass media and foreign journalists accredited in Kazakhstan.
As part of this project, we taught physical education teachers and school principals the basics of project management, "said R. Temirbekov.
The head of kca international presented to the President of Kazakhstan the concept of equipping the main object of EXPO-2017 - the sphere.
Today, during the talks, we discussed in detail the state of bilateral business relations, exchanged views on a number of important issues, discussed cooperation projects and priority areas that can be implemented, the head of state said.
In fact, as of July 21, 183 objects were released, of which 83 objects were implemented.
in addition, congratulations to the President of Kazakhstan were received from the leadership of the Houses of Parliament and Deputies, as well as from a member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission (Minister) for Competition and Antimonopoly Regulation of the Aldabergen.
The company realized two stages at its own expense, 13.8 billion tenge was used in accordance with the schedule, "he said.
Recall that the capital is hosting a regional conference on combating extremism of violence in Central and South Asia.
I always support your initiatives, because we need to develop animal husbandry, "said Sergey Kulagin.
The national idea "The m g_l_k ate" is the base of aspirations of the Kazakhstan citizens to bright future uniting values of independent development of our country", - senator told.
For the development of the middle class in the country, it is necessary that young people go to business so that they live so that they do not narrow themselves from anything, must be independent, all this happens only with the help of business, "he said.
they discussed the further development of the Baikonur complex, the issue of the flight of the Kazakh cosmonaut to the international space station and the prospects for the Baiterek and Dnipro programs.
Comrade Elwood thanked the greenhouse for the meeting and expressed confidence that cooperation between the two countries will develop and its importance will be filled.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed readiness to continue cooperation between the country and Luxembourg.
prior to this, fire stations were opened in the Auliekol, Taranovsky, Zhitikarinsky, Kostanay, Uzunkol districts.
On September 1, 3 more schools with 3,600 seats will be commissioned.
The financial capabilities of 2016 under the three-year plans of 2015-2017 decreased by 850 billion tenge, "the minister said.
the party includes professor of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zinaida Fedotova, general director of Zhambyl Electric Networks alikhan jarbol LLP, general director of Kazakhstan computer graphics, head of the republican headquarters of the Green Country youth labor squad, rahat hamidulin director of the directorate of information and expert programs of JSC "Kazakhstan Rtrk" Kurmanbek Kazanbasov, Director of the Kazakh State Philharmonic named after Dzhambul, kostanay "Director of the company" Toro "mile toroyan aktobe" "head of the peasant economy larisa yu, Ural" design engineer of the Zenit plant dauren okasov, director and actor, skillful maxim akbar, shock singers, burning dugalov.
It should be noted that in general 100.6 billion tenge will be allocated to carry out spring field and harvesting works in Kazakhstan this year by the national manager of Kazagro holding.
Honorary citizen of the region, cultural worker.
in difficult circumstances, you are pursuing an active international policy that will successfully implement economic and political reforms in the country and increase the authority and role of Pakistan. despite complicated conditions you implement economic and political reforms and international policy , raising the authority and role of pakistan .
The council meeting was attended by heads of Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgian railway administrations and heads of rehabilitation international seaports, Baku international sea commercial port, shipping enterprise of the Caspian Sea.
Taking into account the potential and priorities of agriculture in the country's economy, the Agribusiness 2020 program was first developed and implemented in 2013.
Riga was one of the first to support the new capital of Kazakhstan.
the community of history, culture and language is the patriotic basis of the Kazakh people, "said E. Sultanov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and the President exchanged views on topical aspects of the regional and international agenda.
this theme is growing every year, "said D. Ergozhin.
Kazakhstan requested Mongolia to support Kazakhstan's application for inclusion in the non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for the period 2017-2018.
Thus, there are 5 legal councils and 11 law offices in the capital, the total number of lawyers of which is 393.
During the meeting, Akhmetzhanov noted that the national company has significantly changed its structure, paying special attention to efficiency, transparency and multistage.
here we will deliver accurate, accurate, objective blows, as it was right in the article, "said the chairman of the white board of Kazkentent.
airbus group is a world leader in aerospace and defense, as well as in the provision of related services.
however, it is planned to complete it in December.
The purpose of this event is to increase the importance of quality. the main purpose of this event - to place the quality issues first .
now we have all agreements concluded electronically. now all agreements will be concluded only in the electronic form .
Measures within the GPZ, covering the period until 2019, are aimed at ensuring the availability of financial services aimed at processing agricultural raw materials and agricultural products, reducing infrastructure barriers to production, implementing a number of other measures, such as increasing the liquidity of domestic products, and developing a culture of food consumption.
Kazakhstan simply did not take 43rd place in the global ranking of the World Economic Forum on gender policy. it is not occasion the world economic forum in 2014 ranked kazakhstan the 43 place in terms of gender equality in business .
for the idea of ​ ​ eternal country team a. Ibraeva implemented about 10 projects for domestic television channels, including the children's series "Sanzhar and Kaisar, the book of legends" The first fantasy film in Kazakhstan ": a mysterious forest," etc.
This conference is very important for this topic, because the issues of Kazakh ladies have never been discussed anywhere, "said the deputy chairman of the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan.
The document was signed by Christoph Schalle, President of Kazmunaigas JSC, a competent Mynbai and General Director of air liguide.
the first role is ongoing work, support in work, industrial, effective activity. the first role - is in the current activity , the support .
In the Constitution, everything is marked in such a way as to solve the issue directly, "said E.Maksyuta.
according to him, if you enter the portfolio of Chinese yuan sdr, this allowed diversifying foreign exchange reserves in Kazakhstan, while the economic growth of the republic will grow.
These installations are assembled in Germany, "said the deputy director for relations with the white society Samruk-kazyna Aidar Makhmetov.
Our meeting is of great importance on the eve of the V Summit of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States. our meeting is a landmark as it is held on the eve of v summit of the cooperation council of turkic-speaking countries - turkic international organization that promotes cooperation between our countries in various fields : political , cultural , scientific , technical , educational and others .
Gaziz is a reliable comrade and example for colleagues, an excellent student of military and state-legal training, an active member of the life of the unit, "the unit commander said.
Today, the development of bilateral relations is facilitated by a reliable basis of consent, objective economic and social prerequisites, as well as close relations between city authorities.
this is clear evidence that solar energy is a powerful international driver for development.
During the meeting, Kuatzhan Valiev, declaring the implementation of such large-scale projects as "eternal country," "big country is a big family," voiced such projects as "my country," providing for the inclusion of the values ​ ​ of the national idea of ​ "eternal country" in the modern curriculum and the introduction of technological projects.
such a large-scale event is held for the first time in Kazakhstan. the event is held in kazakhstan for the first time .
In the future, it is planned to supply goods to China, our products are interested in prices and other countries of the Persian Gulf, "representatives of nadloc noted.
In addition, fire training competitions were held during the meeting.
over the past 5 years, starting in 2011, Kazakhstan's bank savings fund has almost doubled.
Ekdb works in Kazakhstan in agriculture, first of all, we intend to attract the financial sector.
the first change is aimed at hiring a worker. the first change is employment .
According to him, the airline plans to open a route from the capital to Hong Kong, Tokyo and New York.
After the meeting, the Saparbayev Berdybek and the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of India visited the building of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, where they congratulated the participants of the international exhibition "Bright Colors of India."
participants in the first stage of the rally visited the embankment "Seasons."
secondly, this association covers all spheres, "said O. Seltaev.
in the international expert community, the concepts of "Kazakhstan way," "Nazarbayev model" are firmly formulated.
with the support of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, new educational buildings were built.
During the meeting, issues of development and the state of bilateral cooperation were discussed, as the Foreign Minister noted, he is moving to a new stage.
In addition, it was instructed to work to increase the attention of villagers to the use of state programs "whispers," "gold," "kulan."
this is one of the most important areas of global development, and we can become a partner with Kazakhstan, which will attract other global investors to this country, connect them with the rest of the world, "said United States Ambassador to Kazakhstan George Krol.
in the future it is planned to train specialists in all regions of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat presented Abdullah ii with the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, in which he familiarized the Jordanian monarch with the activities of Kazakhstan within the framework of international organizations and the development of relations between the country and Middle Eastern states.
It is worth noting that kmz milk minegorie LLP produced goods worth 2.6 billion tenge or 102.4%, 22.6 thousand tons of dairy products were produced.
no one knows the history of this question more than you do. you know the history of this issue better than anyone else .
According to him, there are violations in this area.
this experience plays a big role in preserving interethnic harmony and peace, "he said.
Minister of Trade of the Eurasian Economic Commission A.Slepnev noted that thanks to the fruitful activity as President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev enjoyed high authority and trust among his compatriots.
The law provides for all measures for access to information in the country.
Social support was provided to 112.5 thousand people in the amount of 866.9 million tenge, of which 29.5 million tenge was allocated to children with disabilities and students at home.
ferroplan offers efficient solutions for conveyor systems for water treatment and treatment, sorting and management of a wide range of residual materials.
Following the results of the competition, a national team of Kazakhstan will be formed to prepare and participate in World Cups, Asian and World Championships.
I sincerely thank all the heads of state who supported our cooperation in the Turkic world. " snake.
The volume of industrial production in January-July 2015 in current prices amounted to 7944 billion tenge, which is 0.2% more than in January-July 2014.
this is a city that coincides with the history of our country.
now it is stored in the museum. "
Also, within the framework of the commission, the parties discussed draft agreements that are planned to be signed during the official visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. dated October 25-26 this year
The ceremony was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev, Minister of Culture and Sports Arystanbek Mukhamediuly, Director of the National Darkhan Thousand Museum, representatives of the state and the public, intellectuals and representatives of the Union of Artists and Art Historians.
according to him, this is the best result of Kazakhstan in the history of participation in the ranking of the competitiveness index.
In this regard, the necessary negotiations are underway, "the Governor of the region said.
relevance is growing every year, which indicates the need to evaluate all traditional religions, "he said.
In the II quarter of 2015 year, Interlocutor-Kazatomprom LLP produced 1,134,36 million kw * h of electricity for consumers of the city of Aktau and Mangistau region, 765 thousand gcal of thermal energy, 285.7 million cubic meters. m of water, including 2.88 million cubic meters. m of drinking water.
the priority is ensuring regional security and stability, combating cross-border joint crime and stopping drug trafficking, "he said.
in this case, the teenager will need educational, socio-economic clarification, "he said.
During the conversation, prospects for economic and cultural cooperation were discussed in a friendly and long-term manner.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: the book publication of a person in power has been conducted for a long time.
As I have already reported, we were forced to reduce all our expenses, of course, if we do not take social expenses, "the head of state said.
At the meeting, the parties discussed projects in the field of agro-industrial zone, the creation of irrigation systems, road and housing construction, pharmaceuticals.
music does not divide people into nations and nations, states, but brings them closer to each other, "B. Saparbayev noted.
this is the contribution of science to our economy.
we see that many of our partners intend to cooperate with the Eeo in different formats, "said the Russian president.
One of the important mechanisms of such support is the annual award of prizes of the President of Kazakhstan in the garden sphere, the presentation of grants and the announcement of gratitude, "said the chairman of the public commission.
Chairman of the Committee on Legal Statistics and Special Accounts of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, member of the National Commission, General S.Aitbaeva made a welcoming speech to the conference participants and made a presentation on the topic "Economic and political advancement and empowerment of women in Kazakhstan."
The company is a member of the "capital-new city" and carries out its activities in the industrial park.
In this regard, individuals are given administrative responsibility for violating the rules of conduct at these events, "said Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kassymov.
According to the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan, all work on the formation of identity and unity will be created within the framework of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
as we see today, the working groups are showing results.
will increase Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness.
Exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital will be a logical continuation of our exhibition.
This year, the competition is being held in Kazakhstan for the third time. this year we will hold a third round selection in kazakhstan and for the third time will participate in the international competition " turkvizyon . "
how our law enforcement agencies work together in terrorism. "
As the representative of the UN Alliance noted, he takes part in the congress in the capital for the second time.
the project is being implemented in order to develop infrastructure, as we have an expo 2017. the project is implemented in order to develop the infrastructure , because expo in 2017 is planned to be held in kazakhstan .
about 3,000 military contingents, operational groups and special forces were involved in exercises from Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
Kazakhstan has also committed itself to technical regulation, sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary regulation.
Thus, the capital should develop and approve the consolidation of the opinion on the "smart city."
the first products of these two projects were produced this year, the report said.
secondly, in 2018 it is planned to switch to international standards of mass reporting on the use of spe-proms of hydrocarbon raw materials by creating a national spe-prms organization in Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is ready to contribute to the resolution of this issue.
It is worth noting that for the first time the information partner of the Kazakhstan investment forum is the largest global media holding "cnn international."
As part of the kindergarten programme, 240 preschool institutions (96 kindergartens, 144 centres) have been opened since 2010 and 24,953 children have received preschool education.
we will continue to support this type of competition, "said Baurzhan Baibek.
embumunaigas (emg) produced 1,385 thousand tons (56 thousand barrels per day), which is slightly less than the same period in 2014.
In January-September 2015, 1677.7 million passengers were transported by road, including 354.2 million people (21.1%) by transport enterprises of the city, 1323.5 million people (78.9%) by individual entrepreneurs.
the first section - strengthening of family values on the basis of the national idea "g_l_k ate m" is improved by measures for strengthening of patriotism", -he said.
Organizers: National movement "Kazakhstan 2050," Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan.
the second and third objects opening on the same day are the akku indoor pool for 32 places and the akshatyr summer school.
Nursultan Nazarbayev arrived in the city of Ufa of the Republic of Bashkortostan to participate in events within the framework of the meeting of the leaders of the brix organization and the meeting of the Council of Heads of the Shu member states, the report said.
this is a reform that will lead us to sustainable development of the country and economic growth.
The conference began with the presentation of the branch of the Kazakhstan-Aktobe television channel dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the Russian singer and the group "duet l" wished the guys good luck and the fulfillment of their wishes.
The implementation of this program will be our answer to all global challenges, "the Prime Minister added.
Staying at the exhibition in Milan in the national pavilion of Kazakhstan gives me a very good effect, I look forward to the participation of the Principality of Monaco in the world exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, "the congratulation says.
Kazakhstan is considering the issue of outsourcing of non-core assets and subsidiary production of national companies at the state level.
During the fourth session, I would emphasize the law "On the ratification of the Eurasian Economic Union between ratified international treaties."
During this period, 750 workers were involved, after commissioning, it is planned to attract 32 people to the auxiliary post line, "he said.
there we show investment courts and arbitration courts.
Thanks to the implementation of the program, healthy Kazakhstan improves the main indicators of public health.
among them are the president of the European Association of Neurosurgeons Vladimir Benes (Czech Republic), the director of the neurosurgery department of the children's hospital "pieces," a representative of the medical center "Ichils" named after Soraski Tel Aviv shlomi Konstantin (Israel) and other famous scientists.
Compared to 2014, last year 1,500 cars, 12 diesel locomotives, 1 electric locomotive and 153 passenger cars were manufactured, "he said.
This year, the project of the Semipalatinsk Plant of Transport and Cement Products LLP for the production of autoclave gas concrete was put into operation.
According to him, all projects are implemented in priority sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan.
The transition to trade in national currency is in these documents.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-September 2015 amounted to 4664 billion tenge, which is 3.5% more than in January-September 2014.
for the first time as part of a trade mission, we met with potential buyers, now we are looking for reliable partners, "said a representative of ksp steel LLP.
He also noted that Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will put business development in Kazakhstan at a new level.
participating companies are represented in three sectors: agro-industrial complex, mechanical engineering, production of building materials.
the political issue has worsened, which speaks of the economic security of our country, the sovereignty of the state, the ability not to stop the development of our industries, including in general, "he said.
Memorandum of cooperation between the French company lactalis and Kirov LLP for the development of a dairy cluster in the Pavlodar region.
The event was held on the initiative of the One Foundation and the Ice-TV Award as part of the social action "We are for an inclusive society."
This year, despite economic difficulties, crisis trends and a decrease in prices for non-ferrous metals on the world market, our company is working with an established plan, "said the general director of Kazakhmys Corporation bakhtiyar Krykpyshev LLP.
B.Saparbayev noted that Kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of the act in the social sphere.
according to the results, an international certificate will be issued. Nazyrov.
In this direction, the goal is to create a favorable trade turnover between the EAEU countries, "he said.
According to him, work in the financial center of the capital is carried out in English.
The competition "Fashion Yurts" and the competition of beautiful horses "Beautiful Journey" will also be organized.
unity and unity of the plan of the nation, "as well as issues of strengthening the general Kazakh unity, the unity of society, the development of the systemic value of the" eternal country. "
He spoke in detail about the current state and prospects for the development of the Kazakh economy, announced the conditions and preferences created in Kazakhstan for foreign business and investment, as well as such major international events as expo-2017.
during the meeting, Mr. Hasanov informed about the results of the Turkic Council in 2014-2015 and plans for the future.
the second is the Caspian Cup.
During the teleconference, the head of state accepted the reports of speakers on the Nұrly Zhol program and launched the reconstruction of the Ural-Taskala-Saratov highway.
In general, as of October 26, 10276 people were employed, of which 81% have pension transfers.
the association, as a link between business and the state, supports attracting investments in the introduction of new technologies.
harvesting continues in the sown fields of the Taranovsky, Denisov, orphan, reed regions.
As K. Aktaeva noted, when adopting new standards, preparing new aises for the introduction of economic management, the existing world is prone to an economic crisis, which is a classic example.
This year, the construction of a new concession project began - the construction of a large Almaty highway. this year we launched the first concession project - construction of the big almaty ring road ( bakad ) in 66 km in length .
Kazakhstan closed the Semipalatinsk test site, we abandoned large nuclear weapons.
we try to use all the programs we develop.
The sides discussed the possibility of expanding mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
The lowest result in the region - 27 points was scored by a graduate of secondary school No. 5 in Karaganda, "said the head of the education department.
effective use of the channels of city diplomacy is necessary, especially through the international assembly of large cities and capitals of the CIS, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
The participants of the round table noted the visionary policy of N. Nazarbayev in the international arena, the contribution of the head of state to the development of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.
application of new technologies, acquisition of modern technology, "the Governor of the region said.
Requirements for existing judges are being tightened. the requirements for existing judges are strengthened .
Kazakhstan is ready to help rapprochement between east and west, the minister said.
The Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation proposes to hold the IV Congress of Teachers of the CIS Countries in Moscow, "said Alexander Klimov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science of the Russian Federation.
Foreign trade turnover of Aktobe region with India for eight months of this year amounted to 2.8 million US dollars, including exports (ferrochrome, food products) - 1.5 million dollars, and imports - 1.3 million US dollars.
As of August 1, 2015, the availability of central water supply to cities amounted to 100%, villages - 72.8%.
these food products are created not only for space food, but also for use in various experiments, "said the astronaut.
he also presented the content and communication plans of the exhibition and the company's business plans for the upcoming period.
Kazakhstan pays special attention to energy efficiency issues, because we have launched the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
new models in the field of accident prevention and response, transport safety, access control systems, video surveillance, information security and others were demonstrated here.
The loan was provided to the company to implement the medium-term program for the development of product exports in Russia and central Asia, "said Agybaev askhat, chief financial manager of rg brands kazakhstan.
the construction of the mill complex has been completed.
Because we have political stability and friendly relations between nationalities, "he said.
currently there are 4 limited liability partnerships: the design bureau of transport engineering, the design bureau of mining equipment "," the design bureau of oil and gas installations "," the design bureau of agricultural engineering. "
in this regard, expanding the scope of international cooperation, it is planned to continue the practice of joint training of military sailors of Kazakhstan and other countries.
the average score - over 79.7.100 points - received 14,454 graduates (17.6%).	12,454 ( 17.6 % ) graduates scored over 100 points .	1,17
entrepreneurs of the Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region and leaders of the Altai territories were shown investment projects aimed at the development of industry, infrastructure, energy and agriculture of the region.	the entrepreneurs from xuar , the heads of altai and tarbagatai districts of xuar were shown investment projects of the region , presenting opportunities of the region in the sphere of industry , infrastructure , energy and agriculture .	1,17
the leader of the nation "called the implementation of the new economic policy the third direction.
- "Ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters";
Unfortunately, all this has stopped, but I am glad that silence is coming again in Afghanistan, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
it is concentrated in the capital and Almaty.
The event will be attended by more than 200 athletes from Russia and Central Asian countries.
M. Gonzalez announced his country's support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
As part of the support of domestic producers, we plan to purchase chemicals (sulfuric acid), polymer pipes and other products worth 9.5 billion tenge from local enterprises in 2015-2016. within the support of the domestic producers in 2015-2016 we plan to acquire chemical reagents ( sulfuric acid ) , plastic pipes and other products worth 9.5 billion tenge from the local enterprises .
according to the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of July 26, 2015 No. 483, Australia, Hungary, Italy, Monaco, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Malaysia, Singapore, Great Britain, Kazakhstan, Germany, Finland, France, Switzerland, Japan will be exempted from visa requirements up to 15 days after crossing the state border from July 16, 2015 to December 31, 2017, - said R. Zh
It is worth noting that this is the third kaznex invest campaign held in Omsk.
About assignment a.a. Aymbet title "People's Hero"
And I hope that we will take an important step towards applying this qualification to the B corps, "he added.
the introduction of a juvenile court in Kazakhstan is one of the world's best practices. kazakhstan experience of the introduction of juvenile courts is one of the most advanced in the world .
During the year, meetings of thousands of foreign investors were organized, in the capital - 500, in other regions - the same.
we're looking at employee qualifications.
I am confident that this meeting will give diplomatic impetus to the cooperation of the two countries. i am confident that the meeting will bring an additional impetus to cooperation .
It should be noted that over the years of independence, more than 955 thousand ethnic Kazakhs returned to Kazakhstan, of which 6% were from Uzbekistan, about 14% from China and 9.3% from Mongolia.
Initiatives were also expressed to support Kazakhstan's candidacy for the post of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, to submit an application for the Winter Olympic Games in 2022, the organization of the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017, the implementation of an atomic project, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
these projects are implemented through the credit network of Kazakhstan MSW Modernization and Development Center JSC.
We thank the Mayor's Office of Astana and the Governor's Office of Yesil district and the builders for the construction of the school. we thank the akimat of astana , yessil district akimat for this school and for new opportunities of children .
In addition, Astana Opera began to actively cooperate with international theaters within the framework of previously adopted memoranda.
I think that this is a worthy gift for a first-grader, "said Malykbaev.
Kazakhstan can also have these priorities and regulate the country's foreign trade using world and Bulgarian experience.
Kazakh exporters won Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO. kazakhstan 's exporters benefited with the accession of kazakhstan to the wto .
According to N.Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan reached the most important stage in its history.
xkdb actively participates in the implementation of private and public projects in various sectors of the economy, and also assists Kazakhstan in promoting the trend of economic diversification of the country.
The goal of the program is to create competitive, export-oriented production of the raw materials sector by forming regional and world-class companies, "he said.
the purpose of the project is to expand bakery and confectionery activities.
this situation is a reflection of the real implementation of the policy of the head of state aimed at improving the quality of life of Kazakhstanis. this event - the concrete implementation of the policy of the head of state , aimed at improving the quality of life of kazakhstan .
This school year will introduce five-day training in the first classes of pilot schools in Kazakhstan. the five-day school week will be introduced in the first forms of the pilot schools in this academic year , advice on drawing up of time-tables have been sent to the pilot schools .
therefore, a new troika of principles of security and development must be established today.
the deficit remained within the approved level and amounted to KZT1,081 billion.
there were no areas of interaction between the countries, as evidenced by active dialogues in the political, economic, cultural and military spheres.
the library fund is supplemented by teaching aids, classical and fiction literature, domestic publications, and a media library.
We stand for the establishment of harmony and peace, and are also grateful to President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, who contributed to the optimization of the human future, and to the entire Kazakh people and government. we , the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions , united by pursuit of peace , harmony and constructive cooperation for a better future of humanity would like to thank the president of the republic of kazakhstan , his excellency nursultan nazarbayev for his noble initiative , and also all local people and government for their generosity and hospitality , " - jean-louis tauran read .
Nazarbayev University is the first international university in Kazakhstan, created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan in order to form the future intellectual elite of the country.
The Prime Minister of Israel expressed sincere congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on the holy month of Ramadan for all Muslims.
exhibitors of the exhibition will present the following areas of agriculture: dairy products, meat and sausages, fruit and vegetable products, confectionery, alcoholic and soft drinks, oil and fat products, flour and pasta, beekeeping products, cotton products, fresh fruits and fish products and meat.
if in 2009 there were 15 thousand, now 29 are already about. in 2009 there were 15 000 , now there are about 29 000 .
May your love and peace triumph! "- said the head of state.
During the meeting, the head of state thanked Bauyrzhan Baibek for his great work and introduced the new first deputy chairman of the party, Askar Myrzakhmetov.
At a meeting with the Minister of Health, Labor and Social Protection of the Population, Ya. Shiozaki touched upon the issues of establishing ties in the field of medicine, studying Japanese experience in introducing a system of compulsory health insurance of the population, cooperation in the drug sphere.
According to him, "support for Kazakhstan's transition to the green economy model will give impetus to solving many problems accumulated in the water sector.
According to him, many objects are sold not in the first, but in the second production.
these are Aktogai, Aktogai-Taldykorgan, Taldykorgan-apple routes and two 500 kilovolt posts - Aktogai and apples.
for example, on social projects, legislation, industry, we do not lag behind modern ones, "said Y. Timoshenko.
He noted that next year the construction of the Western Europe-Western China highway will be completed.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 spoke about the ongoing work on attracting international participants, developing a legal justification, as well as fulfilling Kazakhstan's obligations to the ICD.
these are artists, stage designers, dancers, directors, volunteers. "
the plan will also address the issues of infrastructure, technical supply, transportation, personnel structure and housing of specialists in this service.
it is necessary to increase the moral responsibility of all owners of gardens who call themselves the fourth power, "N. Nazarbayev explained.
One workplace in this area offers 7-10 jobs: chemical, petrochemical, electrical, "he said.
respect for the state is the duty of every Kazakhstani. respect for the state is the duty of every citizen of kazakhstan .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the initiatives proposed by our republic were highly appreciated by the international community, and now it is necessary to work together with other countries to implement them.
a new method - stores, saves water and is environmentally cleaner.
To do this, you must register with the "mobile government" through the CSP, through the egov.kz portal or through a mobile application that is available through copying the android and ios operating systems.
Recall, on June 4, 1992, state symbols of independent Kazakhstan were first approved.
we are coordinating on the maintenance of the main highways in the direction of the capital, Karaganda, Pavlodar, Kokshetau, shortando-Borovaya resort area and diamond feces, the construction of yurts there, the organization of campsites, "he said.
we must not only increase production for domestic consumption, but also actively enter foreign markets. we need not only to increase production of goods for domestic consumption , but also more actively enter the foreign markets .
In turn, the king willem-alexander expressed interest in further strengthening cooperation with Kazakhstan, and also addressed to President Nursultan Nazarbayev and the people of Kazakhstan.
my homeland - Kazakhstan - this book is a gift from the president, the leader of the nation to first-graders.
Today's meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of State is chaired by Kazakhstan in friendship. today 's meeting of the council of cis heads of states is held under the chairmanship of kazakhstan in the commonwealth .
The management of Damu Enterprise Development Fund JSC will take part in the press conference.
I also want to report that in preparation for the Expo-2017 exhibition, the XII international exhibition Kazakhavtodor-2015 will be held in the capital on November 18 of this year.
Recall that today the 14th meeting of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is taking place in the capital.
to date, the member states of the brix are Russia, China, India, Brazil, the UAR.
Such events will be organized in major cities around the world. such contests are held regularly in many major cities around the world .
Recall that the Stepnogorsk bearing plant was created since May of this year by JSC "European" Stepnogorsk "bearing plant."
The Adviser to the Government of Monaco on External Relations and Cooperation (Minister for Foreign Affairs) held talks with a residential tunnel.
this is mainly a youth active part, athletes, creative people, enterprise specialists and volunteers.
Kazakhstani goods should also be at the world level. kazakhstan 's goods will also have world quality .
According to him, Kazakhstan has created a number of organizations participating in infrastructure projects, private - public partnerships.
According to kdk, "from 50 billion tenge allocated for financing small and medium-sized enterprises in the manufacturing industry at the end of 2014, as of October 2, 2015, banks actually financed 260 projects worth 45 billion 646 million tenge or 91% of the total allocated funds.
During the meeting, the parties discussed important issues of bilateral political, trade and economic cooperation and noted the need to further strengthen cultural and humanitarian partnership.
One of the main tasks of our delegation is to study advanced technologies in the field of green technologies.
During the meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of Vietnam, the state and prospects of cooperation between the two countries were discussed.
Currently, negotiations are underway with the leading aviation administrations of the world, we plan to start the work of foreign specialists from next year. currently , the sides began negotiations with the world 's leading aviation administrations , and we hope that next year foreign specialists will start work .
Considering the specifics of the East Kazakhstan economy, we are interested in production and agriculture.
we plan to put together with the business community projects that will be supported and available for implementation. during the summer we plan to collect these projects in conjunction with the business community , and the young entrepreneurs will be able to implement their business ideas .
almost all segments of the necessary materials are presented in the exhibition: sand, brick, boilers, pipes, metal structures, fire extinguishing equipment, heating systems, measuring devices, reinforced concrete products, wooden, granite, travertine products, geotokms, even a souvenir line and stationery lamps.
According to experts, investor interest in the project is generally high.
Within the framework of this forum, it is planned to sign a memorandum on the implementation of a joint project "On the construction of a greenhouse complex in the Kostanay region" between the churilovo and tobol agricultural complex in the Chelyabinsk region, "the report said.
I would prefer to invite you to participate in the international exhibition of military weapons and equipment "Kadex-2016," which is scheduled for next year in Astana.
appointed head of the secretariat of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who oversaw the saidmurat bapanovich;
During the conversation, the sides also noted the importance of strengthening bilateral cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres.
The Tullar-Talgo carrier plant carried out the first supply of parts that make up cars.
and the book "Nursultan Nazarbayev: A Man in Power" by Professor Alima Auanasova and I began 3 years ago.
the parties also discussed cooperation within the Expo.
in our country, special attention is paid to protecting business. we pay special attention to protecting of the business .
improvement of regulatory legal framework and system for granting the right to subsoil use, development of exploration works, implementation of investment projects and international partnership.
M. Chandler noted that Aksh's participation in Expo 2017 will be a continuation of people's struggle against climate change and ensuring the sustainable development of green energy.
During the signing ceremony, an exchange of views was held on the prospects for cooperation at the bilateral level, topical issues of the bilateral agenda were discussed.
Within the framework of the conference, a bilateral meeting of the Kazakh diplomat and abdulaziz was held, at which issues of further expansion of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Islamic organization for education, science and culture on issues of interfaith and intercultural dialogue, etc. were discussed.
first of all, work should be carried out in each district to open centers, access to new technologies and their coverage, "said the chairman of the board of the Atameken NPP aulay myrzakhmetov.
Within 5-10 years, the situation will be completely different, each state is preparing its own answer - the economic policy of the state.
In order to implement the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and within the framework of the second five-year plan of the SPIID, a program for the development of basic colleges and universities has been developed.
158.8 billion tenge was invested in fixed assets.
and the conduct of the judge. in addition , the rules for judges ' conduct are laid down .
The main points of implementation of the program were the creation of an appropriate legal platform, the construction of basic and industrial infrastructure, the introduction of new tools to stimulate manufacturers, the massive launch of new industrial projects, the creation of foundations for further qualitative development of industry aimed at increasing labor productivity, "said A. Ulseitov.
This is part of the bakery, which now produces sweets, confectionery, kefir, milk, cream, fats necessary for local residents.
this is clear evidence that the level of the national league of students has increased.
Eight of the most distinguished servicemen received medals "For Contribution to the Development of International Cooperation" from the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the concert includes musicians from Turkey, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Uighurs, dancers and singers.
Kazakhstan has created all conditions for the preservation of the language and culture of ethnic groups. kazakhstan creates the conditions for preserving the languages and culture of ethnic groups .
they will be reduced for the main prize of $25 thousand.
By the end of the year, it is necessary to adopt 57 legislative acts that are aimed at implementing 5 reforms, "the head of state said.
Since the beginning of the implementation of the Unified Program for Business Support and Development "Business Roadmap 2020" by subsidizing the remuneration rate, 6,318 projects have improved the terms of financing.
First of all, it is necessary to intensify work on attracting investments and creating new industries using the scientific and personnel potential of the city, its investment attractiveness.
The Special Representative of the UN Secretary General noted that Kazakhstan is an important factor in ensuring regional stability and has a positive impact on the situation in Central Asia.
In this regard, Agromashholding plans to open a joint venture with the Belarusian country.
The Development Bank of Kazakhstan is actively cooperating with Japanese financial institutions. cooperation between the development bank of kazakhstan and the largest financial institution in japan has a long history .
the charity race was held on the square of "defenders of the fatherland."
This year we paid great attention to children with disabilities.
decreased production of food, beverages, tobacco, paper, refining and engineering.
B. Itimova also informed about the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital and called for the participation of Icelanders in it.
Note that these are ansat-kz hotel complexes in the Zerendinsky district, avra garden, 5 guest houses and LCD in the Sandyktau district, the sports and recreation and training complex of Orlenok K LLP, two objects of the roadside service system in the Borovsky district.
Akim visited the construction sites of two 5-storey 30-apartment houses, 7-storey 45-apartment and 4 30-apartment houses of the Vasilkovsky microdistrict, "the statement said.
the success of the team covered the entire Kazakhstani people. triumph of the team has unified all people of kazakhstan .
As noted in the department, compared with the first half of 2014, the number of participants increased by 1042.
in particular, within the framework of the business council, K. Bishimbayev was engaged in the installation of industrial devices and the introduction of technologies for production processes chemieanlagenbau chemnitz gmbh (s.a.c.) met with the head of the German company.
information service in the committee on legal statistics of the Prosecutor General's Office - a pillar of business. the committee on legal statistics of the general office opened an information service - business support .
As of June 29, 2015, 134 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 72.2 billion tenge have been opened in second-tier banks, of which 28.4 billion tenge has been received for money legalization from the savings account to the budget with a fee of 2.8 billion tenge.
but this does not interfere with any state. but there are no many countries managed to create this valley .
we are striving for sustainable and equitable development than we are today.
Within the framework of the business visit, domestic enterprises held negotiations with Iranian national, wholesale and retail and distribution companies.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during the meeting many issues of trade, economic, fuel and energy, transport and communications, industry, agriculture, health care, science of Kazakh-Pakistani interaction were discussed.
major projects such as the construction of maps, railway and bus stations, the reconstruction of the airport terminal, the modernization of engineering and communal networks will be implemented in the capital.
One of the most important factors in attracting investment is the investment program for the relocation of production from China to Kazakhstan.
According to the Ambassador, the document signed with Kazakhstan outlines the issues of energy and supply of alternative energy sources.
the share of the capital in the republican volume was 10.7%.
in addition, 18 schools in 28 districts were funded.
service received 19307, 2014 once a year commissioning in 23840.
On behalf of the Brazilian Foreign Ministry, h.vianna noted that Brazil will take part in the expo 2017, since in the field of "energy of the future" there is an innovation that the country presents to the world.
systematic results of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO: on the one hand, the Kazakh consumer is large business and the population, as well as various commodity markets and services. the projected results of kazakhstan 's accession to the wto : on the one hand , kazakhstani consumer - it is , first of all , business and the public will have access to a vast and diverse market of goods and services .
In addition, the head of state drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan highly appreciates China's guarantees regarding the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia.
We discussed the possibility of using the transport and transit potential of Kazakhstan and Serbia as mutually beneficial for the transportation of goods between Asia and Europe, "the head of state said.
The senator congratulated the residents of the district on the opening of the mosque, sharing the results of the V Congress of Representatives of World and Traditional Religions in the capital.
This year, work is underway to repair 1972 km of roads, this year 667 km of them will be opened, 578 roads will be put into permanent operation, the report said.
the share of the capital decreased (7.3%).
since March of this year, with the express guarantee of the fund, the decision of the regional coordinating council is not required.
Nazarbayev is a real example for politicians and clergy, who was able to directly coordinate his policy with human responsibility, relying on people and humanity, "he said.
the diversification strategy focuses on two areas: diversification of imports and the production of expertise.
It is important to note that the signing of the contract testifies to the investment attractiveness of Astana city.
bills "on the commercialization of the results of scientific and (or) scientific and technical activities," "on agricultural cooperatives," as well as relevant amendments to the legislation in the first reading, are also submitted to the chamber's meeting.
4.9 billion tenge was allocated to finance new projects in the food industry.
our president chose the right way, eternal country "- the way to the future.
In 2016, it is planned to modernize 19 social facilities.
The World Bank recognized the republic as the most favorable country for investment.
The President of Zimbabwe supported Kazakhstan's foreign policy activities in supporting his country and striving to make an even greater contribution to international and regional security.
as the Secretary of State emphasized in this remark, experience shows that the State can fulfil its social obligations only through coordinated social and economic policies.
According to international experts, one of the highest programs in the world has started in Kazakhstan.
foreign scientists give lectures at Nazarbayev University named after L. Humilev. foreign scientists will lecture at nazarbayev university , enu .
As Ashm noted, the agricultural processing industry is very important, which under the Agribusiness 2020 program has a priority direction.
The meeting will be attended by representatives of legislative and executive bodies, ministries of education and science, justice, investment and development, internal affairs of Kazakhstan, heads of organizations of general secondary and additional education, implementing programs of scientific and technical creativity of children, representatives of non-governmental and commercial structures.
thus, the number of services provided in the PSCs reaches 212.
The meeting was attended by activists of the administration of the North Kazakhstan region, heads of state bodies, deputies of the regional maslikhat, representatives of the party, law enforcement agencies, trade unions, councils of veterans, business structures, non-governmental organizations, heads of ethnocultural associations of the region, entrepreneurs, athletes and representatives of the scientific intelligentsia.
issues related to the International specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana.
we support these areas and provide assistance on our part, "he said.
Abdikalikova also met with the heads of the Agency for International Cooperation in Japan and the representative office of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu) in Tokyo, where she discussed issues of interaction and exchange of experience for the development of kazaid (official development assistance), using the expertise of aidu to analyze the development of economic policy of the country.
crews competed in two stages - individual competition and baton.
there are two models of public service in the world. it should be noted that there are two types of models of public service in the world .
According to him, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will be provided with comfort.
representatives of the Kazakh diaspora organized a holiday dedicated to cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany.
The competition was organized by the fellows of the white representative office "Center of international programs" in the UK and the program "Bolashak" with the support of the Federation of Kazakh wrestling of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Tokayev thanked the permanent chairman of the party for his effective work in Kazakhstan.
In addition, representatives of the delegation got acquainted with the progress of construction in the field of tourism, agriculture, energy.
according to the technology, according to which transit container trains have places to minimize the travel time, preliminary information exchange, application by customs places of the international regime of mixed goods, registration of transportation accompanying documents, financial obligations, ensuring regular passage of trains during the day 1100 km, reducing the loading time and unloading of goods into containers.
children's attitude to art - the art of theater, film artists, dancers, singers, children. children 's view of art " - the creative works of young artists of the theater and film , musicians , singers , dancers , actors of an original genre .
During the meeting, as part of the Happy Childhood party project, the deputies handed over certificates to orphans: Galina Andrienko, Amina Sharipova as part of the "We Contribute to the Future" campaign.
At one time, we collaborated a lot with the former president H. Karzai.
87.3% and 89.4%, respectively.
After graduating from the 9th grade, the child goes to the following structure, to the youth house. "
As part of a working visit to the state of Santa Fe, meetings were held with representatives of more than 30 business associations and chambers of commerce of South American countries, in particular regional international organizations Mercosur and Unasur.
everyone wants a higher mood, successful starts, high performance and victory! " - says the congratulation of the head of the national nuclear company.
Thus, the President of China specified the high status and special significance of Kazakh-Chinese relations in the Central Asian region. "
uniting our forces to serve the nations "is our common task."
it is a great achievement of the country, but in globalization it is important to speak the world's languages.
According to him, at the beginning of this year, the law was amended, which fixed the legislative position of "energy service companies" and "State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company."
we have industries such as metallurgy, petrochemicals, mechanical engineering, construction industry and raw materials industry.
More than 250 students of Eurasian National University showed high results in basketball, rugby, football, nine teams, table tennis, handball, wrestling in Kazakh language, sambo, free-style wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestling, kickboxing and hand-to-hand wrestling.
it is very difficult to find a monogamous country, "the expert said.
these factors are personnel management, work experience, the level of special knowledge, the level of connections, the severity of work and recent decisions, "he said.
The volume of investments in the territories increased significantly in the May region - almost 3 times (290.4%), Lebyazhinsky - 1.8 times (182.7%), Kachira - 1.5 times (148.0%) and Ekibastuz - 1.7 times (165.6%).
the association provides great support to eobs and conducts business consulting for entrepreneurs. the association supports the projects , conducts business advice for entrepreneurs , especially for smes .
The issue of creating an Astana international financial center based on the infrastructure of EXPO-2017 is being considered. on the basis of the infrastructure expo-2017 , the state will create financial center " astana . "
d.chembers noted that the company's solutions can be widely used in creating smart cities, various processes in the field of education, health and security.
the authors also drew attention to the importance of implementing the Nұr zhol program, aimed at creating conditions for the creation of a powerful economy, and the further development of the state.
For all of us, the participation of civil society in the implementation of the ideas of extremist and terrorist organizations becomes a big problem, "the Prime Minister stressed.
the northern part of the Caspian Sea is rich in unique water and biological resources, we must preserve them by producing oil, "he said.
It should be noted that the Kazakh diplomat held meetings with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Iran, the Deputy Vice President of Iran for Tourism, the leadership of the Ministry of Industry, Mining and Trade and the heads of a number of Iranian companies.
Many significant dates of Kazakh culture are marked in Unesco, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on the change in output indices for the main sectors, such as agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to 67-68%.
political and public ties between the two countries are now strengthened socially and culturally, "said M. Galkin.
at the end, the President of Kazakhstan wished the participants of the competition success.
In its structure, the share of costs for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20.3%, milk, fat and oil products and eggs - 16.6%, fruits and vegetables - 12.1%, bread and cereals - 9.2%, sugar, tea and additives - 1.8%, the report said.
As of May 1, 2015, the DBK is implementing 21 years of industrialization cards, the total value of which is 1 870 billion tenge, the amount of the bank's debt is 892 billion tenge.
most of the exports go to China, where we began to export since last year, "the manager added.
six of these projects are aimed at the construction of rental housing in the direction of residential construction bank, four - at the construction of engineering and communication infrastructure, and the 1 project - at the construction of preschool education facilities.
The president should use various methods and opportunities. the president instructed to attract investors .
According to him, in Kazakhstan, the model of corporate dog management is formed on the basis of world standards.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation between Korean and Kazakh nationalities were discussed.
this will allow us not only to attract investment, but also to lay the foundation for long-term investment development, "he said.
He also noted that Kazakhstan is one of the few countries in the world that fulfill all social obligations during the crisis.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a strategic partner of our country.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the youth resource center of Kyzylorda region on the initiative of the Department of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in Kyzylorda region spoke about the role of youth in the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" Plan of the nation.
all these projects received grants for implementation.
Secretary General of the General Confederation of Trade Unions in Sherbakov noted that thanks to the efforts of Nursultan Nazarbayev, independent Kazakhstan is confidently moving along the path of political stability and economic prosperity, playing an important role in the international arena.
He is confident that these councils will be included in the new program for the development of health care in Kazakhstan for 2016-2020. who hopes that the recommendations will be fully implemented into the new program for the development of health in 2016-2020 .
The agreement on behalf of Kazakhstan is signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan erlan Idris, on behalf of the magate - the Director General of the Yukia Amano organization.
According to the executive director, all conditions have been created here aimed at organizing multimedia logistics, large industrial production and trade.
discussed the creation of a working group of the center of international projects, which will continue the work of the council. it is planned to create working groups of the international projects center for the work of the board .
According to the results of the competition, the strongest, most enduring and educated servicemen who will represent Kazakhstan and our army at the international competition will be determined.
Thus, the construction of roads will contribute to the development of domestic production and industrialization of the country.
Smithsonian Institution is ready to cooperate with Kazakhstan in scientific and cultural projects. the smithsonian institution is ready to cooperate with kazakhstan and to support the scientific and cultural projects .
this is a rating that includes countries such as France, Sweden, Turkey.
Also on August 15, the Golden Pen literary festival started, where it earned kalamger.kz Internet platform for Kazakh writers and poets.
Kazakh Ambassador to Germany Bolat Nusipov, Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Asanabayev Rose, Deputy Director of the Tourism Industry Department of the Ministry of Investment and Development and representatives of Expo 2017 took part in the negotiations.
In turn, the Italian president drew attention to the growing role of Kazakhstan in the modern world and the dynamic development of the country, noting the importance of developing friendly relations between the two states.
thanks to the comprehensive support of the head of state n.a.nazarbayev. we are always ready to hold such significant competitions, gaining great experience, "said the head of government.
solemn evening President of Kazakhstan n.a. awarding Nazarbayev the highest award of the Union of Journalists of the Russian Federation "For Merit."
The Committee also considered the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the extradition of persons between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Italian Republic."
the first stage of negotiations has been completed, a joint venture is being created.
for example, after taking antibiotics in the next two weeks, it will not be possible to become a donor, "the doctor added.
So, according to statistics, about 1 thousand women turned to the republican "mother's house" for two months, targeted social assistance is provided in Kazakhstan.
our agency monitors and analyses these memoranda.
Kazakhstan will become the largest transit and logistics hub in central Asia.
The event was attended by representatives of central institutions and local administrative, academic and scientific groups, as well as university students.
the first stage of work took place. the first stage - the launch of the space vehicle - was successful .
Kazakhstanis wish you good health for the implementation of this program, "N. Nazarbayev said.
this is a fairly good indicator.
thus, this sample differs from the previous one, the peculiarity of which is that we select the most trained, decent and professional candidates. thus , this model differs from the previous model , the novelty is in the fact that we select the most highly trained , ethical and professional candidates .
we intend to strengthen and develop it, to increase the importance of shu. we are intended to strengthen and develop , enhance the value of the sco .
in addition, for the third year in a row, Kazakhstan provides free assistance to single mothers in the form of a "mother's house."
Deputies, representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the Kazenerji Association and the Pkop enterprise discussed the bill "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Issues of State Regulation of Production and Turnover of Certain Types of Petroleum Products" at the site of the Petrokazakhstan Oil Production.
The National Library Support Center of Kazakhstan organized professional training seminars for Kazakh, national, regional, urban and rural librarians, as well as for teachers of educational institutions to train librarians in the implementation of five institutional reforms, tasks to implement the ninth of the "100 concrete steps."
The main thing is that in the first five-year plan we developed a system of energy saving. but most importantly , for the first five years we were able to create a built-in power saving , " a. rau has said .
a self-regulatory organization, "said the vice minister.
To this end, various events are planned, such as charity events, contests "Capital is my favorite city," "City of love and harmony."
The contract was signed by the Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017 Akhmetzhan Imimov and the Commissioner of the National Section of the UK Charles Hendry.
Compared to January-May 2014, 14.1% less, including exports - $1,873.7 million (16.2% less), imports - $4,618.0 million (13.2% less).
in order for children to be interested, we offered dummies from plausible injuries that easily stick to their feet, "said Natalya Glushakova, chief specialist of the state language and information group of East Kazakhstan region.
thirdly, due to a decrease in demand from our main partners, primarily Russia and China, the market for Kazakh products is narrowing, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Winners of the regional contest "Best Goods of Kazakhstan-2015" were selected in East Kazakhstan region, who received a ticket to participate in the competition-exhibition "Golden Quality - Best Goods of Kazakhstan" in the capital.
The cost of the project is about 97 million tenge, together with the workshop 27 permanent jobs will be created.
This year, to disseminate our experience, we will create a methodology for the introduction of new technologies in the market, the organization of offices for the commercialization of technologies, intellectual property protection councils, "said D. Egizbayev.
opening the meeting, Ye.Dyrissov noted that Kazakhstan considers relations with the European Union strategically important.
According to him, the program "Nұrly zhol" contributed to an increase in the volume of work in the construction sector.
in increasing mutually beneficial and partnership relations between our countries, as well as the development of democracy, the principles of the rule of law and civil society in Kazakhstan, you can continue to count on the support of the federal government, "the telegram says.
especially with the growth and fruitful work of the mayors of the cities of Semipalatinsk, "said the head of the region.
The real estate fund, together with private companies, as part of the state program for the development of the regions until 2020, is building about 585 square meters, including a housing area of ​ ​ 472 square meters. within the program of regional development until 2020 the real estate fund and private companies build about 585 thousand square meters of housing ( 10,255 apartments ) , of which the square of the real estate fund is 472 000 square meters ( 8286 apartments ) .
in the Chinese city of Urumi took place the international match meeting between the world team on the mixed single combats (k-1 and Muaytai) and the Chinese national team.
within the framework of the annual session, the delegation of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the plenary meeting of the policy committee, the committee on civilian dimensions of security, the committee on economics and security, as well as the assembly.
Also, the head of state received congratulations from the participants of the international forum of the member countries of the Ansh organization, who noted that thanks to the President of Kazakhstan, the capital today is a city of peace and harmony.
The winners of the regional competition will take part in the republican competition-exhibition "The best product of Kazakhstan," which will be held in Astana in December of this year.
The parties exchanged views on relevant international and regional issues, including the prospects for the development of the state in connection with the withdrawal of the forces of the international coalition from the country, the Middle East situation.
According to him, the guaranteed tarsfer allocated from the National Fund taking into account the change in the dollar exchange rate is provided for three years in the amount of 2 trillion 300 billion tenge. sultans.
During the visit, the deputy got acquainted with the ongoing processes in the field of economics, social and cultural policy, and also met with the local population.
I take part in hand lifting competitions. i participate in the contest with positive thoughts .
it is important for me to open an office, because we expect great results from its activities, "said Tsacheva.
The purpose of the festival is to unite creative people from all over the world, preserve and promote the uniqueness of national culture, language, history. the purpose of the festival - to unite creative people from different countries , to promote and preserve the identity of national culture , language and history .
He began to carefully engage in retraining specialists, "said the vice minister.
The Secretary of State also met with women's communities: deputies of the maslikhat, the business community, heads of cultural and educational institutions, public organizations.
this is dentistry, orthopedic care, preliminary examination, knot, plastic surgery, cosmetic activity, "said E. Baizhunusov.
thus, the largest milk processors in the dairy market include two transnational companies: danon (milk processing with a capacity of 15 thousand tons per year) and lactalis (Almaty, Pavlodar and South Kazakhstan plants with a capacity of 172 thousand tons of 3 milk per year).
This meeting was the first within the framework of the memorandum on cooperation between the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan and the Institute of Strategic and Interregional Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
the total amount of guarantees is 22.9 billion tenge.
State assistance measures will also be provided to foreign investors of the two countries.
the agricultural holding "kdb peugeot" must meet a number of requirements for the opening of letters of credit for the purchase of a car courier.
During the event, it was noted that foreign and internal migration, demographic policy are important factors of sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
The education system in food countries operates as a social elevator. the fact that in oecd countries the education system works as a social elevator .
On June 25, 2015, an agreement was concluded between the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the State Property and Privatization Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transfer of 49% of the shares of National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest to the Chamber of Entrepreneurs without the right to further buyback, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan has great opportunities in the textile industry. kazakhstan has great potential in the sphere of textile industry .
new aspects of this program make it possible to attract high-quality developers. new approaches allow the program to attract high-quality builders .
we have come to such an agreement.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to positive developments in Afghanistan.
the importance of the project will especially increase in the implementation of the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy and the energy saving 2020 program.
there are support measures that we are considering and preparing, they should not contradict the adopted Kazakhstan agreements, "said A. Arstanov.
this day will remain in the history of Kazakhstan as an integral attribute of statehood and independence, new symbols of the state.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and UNESCO in preserving cultural and historical heritage, expanding international relations in the field of education and science were discussed.
a social project competition has been held for several years.
they will become centers of population concentration and investment, provide high-quality educational, medical, socio-cultural services.
Talgat Musabayev is a sign of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in the space sector, "he continued. Nazarbayev.
This year we have intensified work with the bank, launched two more banks.
sovereignty is an independent State in international relations.
At the same time, Kazakhstan can play an important role in improving food conditions in the world due to the relatively small number of people and the large number of land transport, he concluded.
every day we face manifestations of terrorism and extremism, which threaten the security of our countries. every day we are increasingly confronted with the facts of manifestations of terrorism and extremism , which are a real threat to the security of our countries .
Representatives of Egypt, Bahrain, Venezuela, India, Pakistan, Myanmar and Slovenia will follow the contest as independent observers.
this is school No. 77 with the Kazakh language of instruction, mixed school No. 79 with the Kazakh and Russian language of instruction and No. 81 "astana English school" with the English language of instruction.
As for the issue of concluding long-term agreements with foreign investors, in accordance with your instructions, work has been carried out with foreign companies to increase the volume of local support, which will be expanded, as well as create projects such as Astana expo, abu-abi plaza, in each form, which will monitor compliance with mutual agreements, the minister added.
The sides discussed the development of international issues and bilateral Kazakh-Spanish cooperation.
expositions dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, as well as the traveling exhibition "Kazakh Country: History, Doctrine, Independence" were presented in the regional museum of local lore.
we must bring our legislation into line with international regulations. we have to bring our legislation into line with internationally established rules .
graduates of schools and colleges of Kazakhstan had to send their essays to one of the following topics: "the importance of the EXPO for my country, the importance of" green "technologies for the modern world" or "my profession and my contribution to the industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan."
the structure of the company should correspond to the structure of wool, "said A. Aitzhanova.
About 15 of the 45 projects implemented jointly with China are managed by Samruk-kazyna.
secondary school education, where State and foreign languages, military disciplines and enhanced physical training are taught.
when making our products, only pure natural materials are encoded: cement, lime, sand, gypsum.
33,181 objects and securities were legalized for a total amount of 233 billion tenge.
During the meeting, the British side noted the features of the formation of a national university accreditation system.
According to the head of the committee, the bulk of businessmen in Kazakhstan perform the tax function.
hepatitis "a" during the action - we are not threatened! " flash mobs, press conferences and round tables on the topic "Prevention of viral hepatitis," information clock "Types of hepatitis and measures for its prevention."
Kazakhstan is Latvia's largest trade and economic partner in Central Asia. kazakhstan is the biggest trade partner of latvia in central asia .
During the meeting, prospects for the development of cooperation in the field of oil and gas were discussed, in particular, the possibility of expanding the cooperation of Omanoyl on projects implemented in Kazakhstan.
we believe that the congress will give a new impetus to the discussion of these issues, "said M. Azilkhanov.
the parties exchanged views on topical issues on the international and regional agenda.
The metropolitan cycling team has been participating in world professional cycling competitions for 10 years.
they fired weapons, threw grenades, overcame all obstacles, sailed across the river, led powerful combat vehicles.
the bright path is an excellent menu associated with any "disease" of the economy.
removal of common customs barriers will contribute to the development of business, investment resources, transportation potential and tourism. the removal of customs border promotes business investment resources , the development of transit potential and tourism , and other .
- Memorandum on cooperation in the field of physical culture and sports between the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of India.
The experience of the Kazakh delegation aroused great interest of the biopark development and research center, which can be used to improve technological parks in the South Kazakhstan region.
in addition, the Deputy Prime Minister visited the regional drama theater and the Taraz central stadium.
The President of Kazakhstan drew the attention of akims to the need to develop small and medium-sized businesses around the oil and gas industry.
According to the results of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, the results are good. there are good results of the work of the ministry of investment and development .
it is these issues that are relevant for the implementation of economic policy in the country and the implementation of basic programs, "the political scientist explained.
Since 2015, 16 objects have been adapted, including 1 object in the arched, 3 in Egindykol districts, 1 in Astrakhan, Atbasar districts. since the beginning of 2015 16 objects have been adapted , including in arshalyn , yegindykol districts - in threes , in astrakhan , atbasar districts - by one object .
also at the airfields of Ryazan, Syzran and Lipetsk cities, the "air map" begins.
and two dormitories for young families will be built in Petropavlovsk, "the press release said.
By the end of the year, it will be available for other regions of Kazakhstan, "said Yu. Oxamite.
Vice President of the University, Professor before Viet Hung highly appreciated the current development of Kazakhstan and the wide prospects for the development of bilateral relations between the two countries.
between political or economic decisions or opportunities for the future.
Kazakhstan is the first country from CIS countries to win the right to hold an EXPO. kazakhstan is the first country of the cis , which has won the right to hold expo .
In different years, I won prizes at republican and international tournaments in army hand-to-hand combat, boxing, pankration, "says Madhat.
in addition, the books of the president, which came out of his hands, say that "on the eve of the 21st century," the Kazakh way, "they reflect the brightest moments of our sovereignty.
Recall that the concept was adopted in Nassau on May 23, 1992.
One window method will allow state bodies, member states, regulators of foreign economic activity to improve the quality and reduce the time for the provision of public services, "said M. Kazbekova.
The head of the national company examined sections of medium and major repairs on the roads Astana - Rozhdestvenka - Kiev - temirtau, implemented under the program "Nұrly zhol," heard reports of contracting organizations.
he studies all sectors of the economy, "said the deputy.
all of them are aimed at the formation of a new Kazakhstani patriotism, "said the director of" public consent. "
these are excellent opportunities and quite big risks.
According to the amateur, all conditions are created for them when working and social support is provided.
Romania officially recognized its participation in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
- The Republic of Bulgaria attaches great importance to cooperation between Kazakhstan and Bulgaria.
According to him, the concept of Almaty-2022 is the most compact, all objects are located within a radius of 30 km from the Olympic village, on average on a 30-45-minute road.
educational, publishing and information programs come out of our research programs. educational , publishing and information programs come out from our research programs .
Currently, trade between the countries is developing, we are interested in stimulating investment between the two countries. recently , the trade turnover between the two countries is developing and the arabian country is interested to promote investments .
As for the oil and gas sector, extractive companies are reducing their investment portfolios.
According to the Vice Minister, projects implemented in Kazakhstan are grouped in accordance with all standards.
During the meeting, the Head of State thanked Vladimir Putin for the warm welcome and noted the success of the negotiations within the framework of the session of the Collective Security Council of Tajikistan.
relations between Kazakhstan and Russia are developing in the political, trade, economic, investment, cultural spheres.
# talks2050 is an informal forum in the format of a ted conference.
the share of the capital in the republican volume was 10.7%.
The productivity of the manufacturing industry in the first five-year period of the program doubled compared to 2014 and amounted to 19 thousand dollars, "said S. Kulagin.
the competition developed a number of professional tests for military personnel. competition has prepared a number of professional military trials .
we must implement them.	100 concrete steps  and we have to materialize them into reality .
Today, the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan is the most developed branch of the economy, which ensures the country's production security. nowadays kazakhstan 's agro-industrial complex is one of the fastest growing sectors of the economy , ensuring food security of the country .
this means that Kazakhstan's economy supports innovation towards the future.
this is a very large market.
The World Trade Organization is a work, we need to work hard and increase competitiveness. the world trade organization requires hard work .
after a comprehensive discussion in two readings, senators passed the law.
The situation in the world is now difficult, in our region is also calm. the world situation is really complicated .
and remains our first investment partner.
the issue of staging is solved uniquely, directors from Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan and foreign countries are involved. we have involved the directors from kazakhstan , cis and foreign countries .
According to the Minister, 28 EU countries are the largest partners of Kazakhstan.
Speaking about his impressions of his visit to Kazakhstan, the guest noted the important role of our country in regional development, and also drew attention to the high level of participation of women in public life.
4 thousand teachers are engaged in research work of students in the region.
let the inhabitants of this city and country be happy. "
The plan of the nation is a multidisciplinary program that will lead to great changes.
people here are really steppe springs, "said K. Puzhol.
then it was hard, hunger, in a family of 10 children, "he said.
Given the state of the world economy, including in Europe and East Asia, it is impossible to predict an immediate improvement in the situation. taking into account the state of the economy in the world , including europe and asia , it is impossible to predict the improvement of the situation .
in addition, a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council is expected.
In a new form, the head of the region was visited by a large saduakas and the president of Kazakhstan, aluminum.
Registration of foreign nationals of 19 states (Australia, Hungary, Italy, Monaco, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Malaysia, baa, Singapore, Great Britain, Germany, Finland, France, Switzerland and Japan) is carried out directly at Kazakhstan border checkpoints from the moment of their transition to Kazakhstan.
As the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev noted, a complex crisis also comes from the crisis of 2007-2009.
our people have fought for these steppes and homeland all their lives. our people had been fighting for the great steppe , for our country .
Kazakh pilots will show their flying skills with MiG-29, Su-25, Su-27 and Mi-8 aircraft and helicopters, as well as compete for the title of "heavenly owners" with flight crews of Russia, Belarus and China.
our goal is to ensure the promotion of specific projects in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said the deputy chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna.
they were fined a total of 1 million 506 thousand. Tenge.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and a number of countries.
Also, funds allocated from the state budget will be directed to the implementation of new projects.
now he continues to train, in his plans - to receive the title of world champion and conquer new sports peaks.
He highly appreciated the balanced policy of the President of Kazakhstan aimed at the sustainable development of the state, expressing hope for further strengthening of cooperation between the two countries.
agriculture, forestry, dairy production, processing of oilseeds, chemical and food production, pharmaceuticals, transportation and logistics, beverage and food production, and legal and economic services.
we are forced to pursue the industrialization policy that we are implementing. we have to carry out this industrial policy and consider it as the foundation to transfer to a modern economy .
ecotone + white plant is implemented as part of the program of innovative and technological development of Kazakhstan and meets the highest requirements in the construction market.
"muse films" on this action along with foreign diplomats and foreign guests of the president of a film studio Karl Klatt, the president of "cinema tropical" Carlos Gutyerest, the founder and the president of "seagull films" studio, the Vice president for public relations of a film studio Kinolorber, representatives of film industry of Kazakhs, including the known cinematology will, the founder of the agency on promotion of movies Sofie Glaka and also independent experts, scientists, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora in an aksha.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan was told about the concept of building Eagle Street, the district of the new railway station and the project of the second stage of the boulevard of bright roads.
- How do you assess the level of inter-parliamentary relations between Kazakhstan and Bulgaria?
we took another step towards each other, to the special importance of peace, to an agreement between religions, states and peoples, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the meeting, the Minister of National Economy, Erbolat Doschayev, reported on the development of public-private partnership.
first - in the first five years of industrial and innovative development, 770 new enterprises and 75 thousand new jobs appeared in Kazakhstan.
judicial reform, entrepreneurship, social benefits and pension-related issues.
Three graduates received the best indicator in the region - 123 points: Nikita Kostlivets (Lyceum No. 2 of Karaganda), Meruert Mukhtashova (gymnasium No. 8 of Zhezkazgan) and Aida Alimbetova (secondary school No. 22 of Zhezkazgan).
the pair should remain an authoritative, unique universal structure, "said K. Tokayev.
I am sure that global development will grow in the 21st century, and the world will appreciate it with dignity, "the leader of the nation added.
we ourselves held sovereign negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO. we conducted independent sovereign negotiations on kazakhstan 's accession to the wto .
At the event, the Minister of National Economy said that M. Varga officially confirmed Hungary's participation in EXPO-2017.
Festive events in the assembly region are scheduled for October 1-3.
for example, "sharips" and "demand" have demonstrated a method of using new technologies in the field of growing vegetables and beets.
agreements were reached on the import of Kazakh oil and gas, the opening of joint ventures in light industry, agriculture, pharmaceutical and other industries, "said the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
The president of the foundation visited Iskakov, presented medals to the Minister of National Economy of Hungary, the Minister of Agriculture, Shandor Fazekash and others.
at the same time, the Ministry, together with passenger carriers, will send as part of this work by the end of the year: The completion of the implementation of travel documents in electronic form on trains owned by private carriers by analogy with the national carrier, the network of machines with the services of selling travel documents (payment terminals) is planned to more than double, organize the sale of travel documents in electronic form by the end of this year through the white post offices of Kazpost, whose network is 6 thousand units.
To date, the collected funds amounted to 35.2 million tenge, and the monthly fee exceeded 2.5 million tenge.
Earlier, "Zhkedo ato" Experts of the AG noted the success of measures to combat unemployment in Kazakhstan "ZhSK 2020" direct connection with the implementation of the program, the program defines specific goals: unemployment rate - no more than 5%, unemployment among women - no more than 5.5%, youth unemployment - no more than 4.6%, as well as specific areas of employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services; support for entrepreneurial initiatives and integrated development of support villages; Promotion and training on employment and migration as requested by the employer.
At this time, our enterprises should strive to improve the quality of their products, show their competitiveness, "said the executive director.
Today, Kazakhstan is implementing this concept, which is of interest to countries near and far abroad, "the expert noted.
Among them are such masters of their business as doctors, teachers, industrialists, farmers, entrepreneurs, scientists, youth leaders, public figures, athletes, talented artists and cultural figures and others.
Now Nursultan is on the rise. now nursultan moves up , showing his best skills in major world tournaments .
under your leadership, the republic is confidently moving along the path of socio-economic and scientific and technological progress, actively participating in solving pressing international problems, "the congratulation says.
Chairman of the Investment Committee of Kazakhstan erlan Khairov, chairman of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest Kurrisbay zhanuzarov, managing director of National Managing Holding Kazagro aigul Muhammadieva and deputy chairman of the board of Kazagrokarzhi asylkhan zhuashev will take part in the press conference.
The bill was developed in order to implement the Plan of the Nation proposed by the head of state 100 concrete steps "91, 92, 93 steps, the concept of a new budget policy, the concept of improving the state planning system and the proposals of the Accounts Committee," the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said during the presentation of the bill at a meeting of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
The head of state sent the first working trains along the new railway line in July.
I believe this is very important for the social and political life of Kazakh society.
memoranda with the participation of Deputy Akim of the Region Igor Steksov and Deputy Chairman of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc" of the Huahit Gulmir, producers and domestic entrepreneurs, "the statement said.
the creative team of the metropolitan opera house developed a series of concerts "musical environment," organized on Wednesdays, along with "bel canto," "children's subscription" and other subscriptions held in the chamber hall.
on behalf of the magate and on behalf of the entire international community, we want to express our gratitude to you, "said Amano.
unemployment, not qualifications.
Among them are the implementation of five institutional reforms, measures to improve the investment climate, a decrease in state participation in the economy and large-scale infrastructure construction under the Nұrly Zhol program.
According to him, the Government of Kazakhstan has developed three main programs for the development of the machine-building industry of the country.
the constitution of any country is the basic law of that state, because the constitution is the highest model of human rights. any constitution of any country is the fundamental law of the state , because the constitution is the highest form of expression of rights .
responsible state bodies are instructed to disseminate the declaration of the v congress, as well as systematically explain the importance of interreligious dialogue in the capital.
now there are 3312 mosques, temples, synagogues, captive houses in the country, 41 media are working in a religious direction, "the head of state said.
We are ready to sign a memorandum of cooperation in September, "said P. Guzovsky.
in the social sphere, it is necessary to adapt to maximum transparency, whether it be budget funds or private initiatives, "he said.
During the visit, special attention was paid to issues of cooperation in the field of tourism and sports.
Next, the deputy visited the Aktobe City microdistrict, built under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, got acquainted with the construction of the school and kindergarten.
The Deputy Prime Minister noted that on behalf of the head of state, the government is taking a set of measures to ensure all social obligations.
the reduction also concerns the number of enterprises included in the group of companies of the fund, "B. Beisengaliyev said.
The opening of new flights from the capital to Seoul and Tbilisi testifies to the growth of international destinations, to the expansion of the capital's international ties with other countries. the opening of new flights from astana to seoul and tbilisi describes and demonstrates increase in international routes , the expansion of an international network between astana and the rest of the world .
we created this unique university, and I think that some of the developed countries cannot boast of such an educational institution, "said the leader of the nation.
President of the Academy of Sciences of Mongolia, academician batboldun enkhtuvshin drew particular attention to the fact that the book, published on the basis of an examination of political, scientific and journalistic works of the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan, is of great social importance and has scientific and educational significance.
the best standards of the European standard will be part of apk, "he said.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country laid a single foundation for the future of our country.
In addition, 2 thousand 370 citizens received social assistance in the amount of 28.3 million tenge.
As of June 12 of this year, 19 objects were put up for auction, of which 8 objects were sold.
Consequently, we expect investment in these industries, but engineering and metallurgy are one of the priority industries that attract investment, "he said.
As a result of close bilateral relations, Cuba supports Kazakhstan's candidacy for a non-permanent UN representation in 2017-2018, and Kazakhstan is interested in Cuba becoming a member of the UN Human Rights Council again in 2017-2019, the minister said.
there you can play football, basketball, volleyball, athletics, wrestling, boxing and shaping.
Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerlan Zhurgumbayev opened the meeting.
an agreement was signed by the chief judge of difc courts Michael Hwang (michael hwang) and the vice-chairman of national bank of Kazakhstan nurlan kusain.
Chairman of Kazatomprom JSC Askar Zhumagaliyev and Governor of South Kazakhstan region Askar Myrzakhmetov signed an agreement on the development of local content as an annex to the memorandum on cooperation between the company and akimat.
we are ready to support you in this matter, "the president said.
I am pleased with the concrete achievements achieved in recent years between the two countries.
software, terminals, bakomats, web kiosks should be installed in these centers, universal consultants on tax and customs issues should be trained, "said D. Gojin.
in this regard, I congratulate the high president of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the initiative to develop green technologies and the opening of an international center for investment projects in the capital. "
in addition, all Islamic and Christian holidays are included in the calendar and celebrated.
secondly, the manifestation of humanism should be based on the divinity of man, "he said.
This year, 2,285 families applied for participation in the Jubilee Family competition, in 2014 their number amounted to 1,298 families.
we plan to conclude memoranda with continental states. we plan to sign memoranda with the continental states .
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Recall that the agreement on strategic cooperation for the development of projects of the special economic zone "Khorgos - East Gate" and the international logistics zone Shu was signed in September during the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to China.
- A new joint project will be launched in Kazakhstan today with the financial support of the Government of Kazakhstan.
Of course, this is too long, but we were able to protect our interests during the negotiations, "said R. Sarsembayeva.
Also, during a telephone conversation, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the former Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany on his birthday.
Nazarbayev University has a practical form, which is mastered by higher educational institutions of the country. nazarbayev university is a model for the higher educational institutions of the country .
The parties noted the high pace of mutually beneficial cooperation in trade, economic, investment, transit, transport, cultural and humanitarian spheres and in all other areas.
So, the winner of the festival was the dance group "twenty three style" from the capital, which will now represent Kazakhstan in the UK.
According to the results of the event, in order to promote trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, the Committee for the Promotion of Cooperation of the North-West "will form a delegation of leading Chinese enterprises and visit Kazakhstan in September this year," the statement said.
The volume of investments in the manufacturing industry amounted to 62.9 billion tenge or 120.4% compared to the corresponding period of last year.
In this regard, he announced the decision of his state to support the candidacy of Kazakhstan for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
the government programme will continue to stimulate the manufacturing sector.
N.Nazarbayev also noted that Kazakhstan continues measures to change the economy.
The work of international organizations iaf and ilac demonstrates a high international level of trust, as well as the work of authorized bodies, and also guides international quality and methods.
in the nomination "best athlete" were awarded: nurse, "best technique" - one erstan, "for the desire for victory" - gabbas temir.
in addition, the parties discussed the implementation of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and the initiative of the Chinese side "one belt, one way," as well as the further development of the multimedia terminal of the Lianyungang seaport.
we tried to turn it into a tradition, and this year the same will be held, "said Mr. fortresses.
the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan also exchanged views on regional security and topical issues on the international agenda.
Kazakhstan's national commitment meant that it felt responsible to the world community.
This year, more than 120 thousand schoolchildren, of which 70% thousand - 85 thousand - pass exams, 25 thousand - are Russian-speaking schoolchildren, "the minister said.
children are our future, old people are our endowment past. children are our future , old people are our past whom we must respect .
in addition, the construction of a multi-storey complex "Abu Dhabi Plaza" is underway.
I believe that it is beneficial for both sides to establish business ties, strengthen relations in the fields of economy, education, culture and tourism, "said Karim Kokrekbayev.
Assembly projects such as the "jubilee family" and "coexistence" create conditions for strengthening the civil community.
now we are considering the judicial system from the very beginning. now we reconsider the judiciary policy .
During the construction, 2344 jobs will be created, after commissioning 426 jobs will be provided, "said the head of the region.
When international road transport companies are faced with the problem of issuing vehicles imported from third countries for less than 3 years.
On July 4-6, the head of state is scheduled to participate in events dedicated to the Day of the capital.
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister K.Masim, Head of the Presidential Administration n.nigmatulin.
our business exports little, the transparency of this market allows us to determine the level of competition, "he said.
The head of state also informed about the construction of social, cultural and domestic facilities in the city.
for example, there was no water polo in the capital, this is a very expensive sport. a striking example - astana has never had the water polo , this type is very expensive .
partnership between the Kazakhtelecom white and tele2 group corresponds to the strategic interests of the parties in creating a third strong player in the Kazakh market.
According to him, if the treaties with Romania and Bulgaria are bilateral, then this document is multilateral.
there are great opportunities for entrepreneurs. "
This agreement will also strengthen the agreement between Kazakhstan and Serbia and a constructive dialogue within the framework of the twentieth anniversary of diplomatic relations, "he said.
By signing this memorandum, we will determine a new level of strategic cooperation. "
first, we get the priority industries chosen for the second five-year plan. firstly , we take those priority sectors that have been selected for the second five-year plan .
we appreciate your intention to work together and attract investment in the future.
mobilization groups include eye doctors, ophthalmologists, surgeons, obstetricians-gynecologists, therapists, pulmonologists, pediatricians and cardiologists.
Last year, the region provided assistance in the amount of 24 thousand children in the amount of 120 million tenge and carried out 774 raid measures. last year , in the framework of this campaign 24 thousand children were assisted in the total amount of 120 million tenge .
23 new facilities were introduced in industry, 5 existing enterprises were expanded.
additional sections are opened in the regions, the number of coaches is increasing, "he said.
the president constantly monitors the contribution we make to our country. the president is watching the development of our agency .
In the village of Shortandy, as part of the unified state program for business support and development "Business Roadmap 2020," the implementation of the White Lily LLP project was launched.
As part of theoretical assistance, trainings and seminars are held, "said A. Bazylkhanov.
I urge every citizen to contribute to the development of the country and to engage in sports, "- said the press service.
This is very important, because Kazakhstan is preparing for the expo 2017, "said the president of the association" risspa "eugene climes.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state of bilateral cooperation and issues of its further development, as well as the visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Cuban Republic scheduled for autumn this year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports.
The 11-year-old Mohammedali received a bronze award at the New Wave Children's Festival and received the main prize at the Stopped Capital competition.
in addition, the medical institution operates for a year and provides medical, health and entertainment services at any time of the year.
the competition determines the professional adaptation of children, "said Svetlana Ispusinova, deputy chairman of the board of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School aku.
at the national level, Kazakhstan contributed to this program by adopting the "concept of transition to a green economy," the head of government said in a welcoming speech.
in addition, the project includes issues of employment, training, retraining, involvement in youth practice, public works and employment in social jobs.
our goal is to promote a healthy lifestyle. our goal - to promote a healthy lifestyle .
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed ways to strengthen cooperation in the trade, economic, investment and fuel and energy spheres.
the school constantly pays attention to the military-patriotic education of students, and, of course, the presence of such a museum is a great help in working with the younger generation.
Issues of trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation were discussed during the meeting.
The meeting was attended by representatives of state bodies, the Nұr Otan party, the deputy corps, the Baiterek holding, and local executive bodies.
At the same time, memoranda have been concluded with many national companies and enterprises forming the system of the region. " Ilmukhanbetova at an exit press conference.
The parties discussed the prospects of investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the UK.
Vice President of Transneft V. Rushailo congratulated the President of Kazakhstan on his birthday and wished to implement all his ideas for the good of good health and people.
this agreement opens up new opportunities for the defense industry complexes of the two countries.
An important result of constructive cooperation was the preliminary sequence of the new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union on January 20, 2015 in Brussels.
During the meetings with the leadership of the carinthian, the Austrian side informed about the political and economic situation of Kazakhstan, plans for the further development of the country within the framework of five institutional reforms and "100 concrete steps" to implement it and about the possibility of cooperation with Kazakhstan in preparation for the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," the implementation of the program "Nұrly zhol," the winter universiade of 2017.
Also on this day in the guard will pass the championship of Kazakhstan on the Kazakh wrestling, competitions "zhorg," "alaman baige," "the main paluan of the Abai wedding."
On the other hand, this competition is difficult for business, it must meet the international standards that we offer, "said M. Bashimov.
librarians from Aktobe, Karaganda, Pavlodar and South Kazakhstan regions, as well as heads of departments and leading specialists of the Kazakh national library were presented at the seminar.
about five thousand metallurgists work at our plants. our factories employ about 5,000 metallurgists .
and other buyers of cars do not need this procedure for their own needs, "explained S. rakhimov.
support for constitutional justice, access to justice and electoral reform in Central Asian countries. "
our forum is the core of all political events, participants of the great steppe country will speak at the scales, "said E. Togzhanov.
In addition, 17 days were performed on the 17th anniversary of the capital.
and the American group "green berets" won in the nomination "best bombers" and received a letter "for the will to win" in the group.
He also noted the importance of the state language, which unites Kazakhstanis.
general Turkic history. "
The project was developed in conjunction with six mobile phone connections.
During the meetings, the prospects of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade and economic spheres, as well as ways of interaction in the international arena were discussed.
In his welcoming speech, Asylov noted that state agencies are carrying out comprehensive work on regulatory, organizational and ideological support for the implementation of the National Plan, reported in detail on the measures taken in the framework of the implementation of the projects "eternal country," "big country - big family," "my country" and others.
the most relevant aspects of the international agenda and regional security were also addressed.
Kazakhstan has created a council of foreign investors under the president to participate in the work of representatives of the country's business circles and foreign entrepreneurs.
The very organization of today's seminar is a sign of respect for the multinational policy of Kazakhstan, the policy of peace and the consent of the first president - leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev. i am deeply convinced that the holding of a seminar is a tribute to the peace-loving policy of kazakhstan , the policy of peace and harmony of first president of kazakhstan - leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev .
The seminar was attended by deputy chairmen of the national commission - deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan E.I. Trasenko, member of the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan l.sarsembayev.
however, our people have not lost faith in God, "the leader of the nation emphasized.
Recall that the national agency for technological development was created to help ensure the distribution of innovative development processes and the provision of state support measures and is part of the white "National Management Holding" Baiterek. "
The Secretary of State congratulated the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on his appointment and expressed confidence that his new position will contribute to the further strengthening of comprehensive and fruitful cooperation between our countries.
- The capital already plays the role of an educational and medical hub not only of the country, but also of the Central Asian region.
this will increase the cost of finished products and reduce their competitiveness.
The event is attended by representatives of national metrology bodies of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan.
The Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan in his report gave an overview of the environmental situation, the activities of state bodies in this area, including within the framework of the Concept on the transition of Kazakhstan to a green economy.
In this regard, we plan to award the Patriot of the Year nominee.
He also met with the labor collective of the Rayymbek district, visited the Balaus kindergarten and the village of kegen.
two important narrow statements were also adopted.
equestrian festival takes place in our area. our district witnessed the horse show .
Development of military standards.
The Turkish treasury plans to jointly implement a coal mining project at the Kushmuryn field.
Currently, the museum has concluded memorandums of cooperation with the National Center for Arts and Culture named after Georges Pompidou (France), the Ambrosiana Library (Italy), the Siana Museum of the Ancient Western Bazaar under the Tang Dynasty (China), the State Hermitage of Russia and other museum centers.
Thus, we can say that the level of education of schoolchildren is growing, "said the news agency.
The main areas of this program are the development of primary health care, the introduction of social and medical insurance, the development of the personnel potential of health care, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The solid basis of socio-economic stability is steps aimed at industrialization and economic growth, "he said.
our country has become a regional centre for trade and investment and the author of many international initiatives aimed at ensuring global peace and stability.
Over the years of independence, we have demonstrated to the world the creative power of our people by building a new capital, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
departments of national companies remained unchanged, with the exception of a number of combined structural units.
Many thanks to the leadership of the Republic of Kazakhstan for their contribution to the development of the CIS this year. i would like to express my deep gratitude to the leadership of kazakhstan for its great contribution to the development of cooperation within the cis this year .
an intoxicated driver is a dangerous criminal, "decreases speed," "lacks," is well late, "a driver who knows," stopped road users and conducted explanatory work with more than 100 drivers.
The event will be attended by the General Director for Relations with the White Society "Samruk-kazyna" darkhan kaletayev, the chairman of the council "Қazaқstan barys" the dreamer of shorai who won the titles "қazaқstan barys": ulan yskul, fly tursyns, aibek nugmars, peaceful istybayev.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of the development of bilateral military-technical cooperation, and also expressed interest in strengthening relations between the defense departments of our countries, the statement said.
over the past 4 years, funding for science has increased 2.5 times - from 27 billion tenge in 2010 to 47.9 billion tenge, "said T. Balykbaev.
As noted by the press service, in the republic created all conditions for the development of the young wave.
in addition, today in Hanoi, the commissioner of the Expo-2017 exhibition took part in the doingbusinessinkazakhstan business forum, in which representatives of more than 70 Vietnamese companies took part.
for the solution of various regional and international decisions, the establishment of peace and harmony in Kazakhstan, the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. in order to contribute to the solution of various regional and international issues and to establish peace and harmony in kazakhstan , president nursultan nazarbayev established the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan .
Today is an important day for residents of the Issyk-Kul region - Nursultan Abishevich supported the idea of ​ ​ building a more direct road that halves the distance from Almaty, the President of Kyrgyzstan said.
the new format of the code of ethics is divided into two types: the first is applied, the second is position-oriented.
specialization of courts and judges and privatization of a number of proceedings. "
diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Romania developed on July 15, 1992.
If our hopes are fulfilled, then this will give a great impetus to the development of Almaty and Kazakhstan, "said the head of the metropolis.
France has a long history of automotive industry, therefore, the development of bilateral cooperation in this area is of particular interest to Kazakhstan.
During the consultations between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of the two countries, an exchange of views was held on key issues of bilateral cooperation and the international agenda.
The head of state noted the importance of the upcoming summit in terms of strengthening cooperation between the member countries of the Turkic Council.
The first place in the nomination "Best Product for the Population" was taken by members of the jury - "Golden Horde."
very talented children participate in this project, and for most of them this is the first step towards professional activity. this project involves gifted children .
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan completed a deal to issue a 10- and 30-year Eurobond in reg s/144 a format in the amount of $4 billion.
It addressed issues of improving the activities of special bodies, improving the quality of analytical and forecasting work.
In the capital of Kazakhstan, on the eve of the muz-tv award ceremony on June 5, the muz-tv channel together with the Ayana and Steppe foundations will hold 16 charity events.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the head of the region visited the reed, March, Auliekol, Taranovsky, Denisov, Zhitikarinsky districts, met with agricultural producers.
The press conference will be attended by Deputy Chairman of the Board of kaznex invest aidar diamond JSC and Chairman of the Board of Age Management Company Nurlan Sydykov.
first of all, law enforcement agencies should carry out serious, intellectual, selected work.
The revival of our capital speaks of the kinship of the Kazakh nation, "said K. Sultanov.
peugeot cars found their audience in the Kazakh market.
He noted that in many sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan there are great opportunities for the development of innovation and investment.
As of September 1, 2015, Kazakhstan has registered representative offices and branches with Iranian participation, 491 legal entities, of which 159 are active.
Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev will take part in the press conference.
New industrial and infrastructure facilities will also be launched, the start of construction and the implementation of infrastructure facilities will be presented.
One of the successfully implemented projects is two tourist destinations in the caton-pine zone, this is a "joyful" and "dirty fountain," as well as a zhailau tour project.
2560 million tenge is planned for the construction of the enterprise.
Following the meeting, Askar Zhumagaliyev instructed the heads of structural divisions to employ all graduates in the system of the national nuclear company.
In order to complete the projects by 2020, it is planned to receive new loans in the amount of 1 trillion tenge, as well as the use of 137.3 billion tenge due to savings of previously received loans.
all this work speaks of the needs of society, "he said.
to date, construction work has been carried out for 35.8 billion tenge (fki - 136.2%).
The platform of interreligious relations in Kazakhstan - "eternal country" - is based on successful and structural cooperation in the name of a universal task, "said A. Abuov.
in Almaty region, "philip maurice" opened the center "agribusiness," where new technologies will be mastered, such as irrigated agriculture, heat farming.
according to the expert, an important role in this is played by the nationwide patriotic idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
The main achievement of Elbasa Nazarbayev is peace and harmony in the Republic of Kazakhstan. the main achievement of head of state nursultan nazarbayev is peace and harmony in our common home - kazakhstan .
Chairman of the Board of Directors of RussNeft UK M. Gutseriev noted the great contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev to the sustainable and dynamic development of Kazakhstan, the disclosure of its industrial and investment potential, strengthening its position in the international arena, improving the well-being of citizens.
In his speech, the ambassador familiarized Nұrly zhol with the main content of the new economic policy, the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019, the national plan "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing five institutional reforms.
public and personal health is now the responsibility of the State, employer and citizen.
best international practices.
if we go to the same school, read one story, one literature, then we will leave it with a national team, "said A. Bashmakov.
vi An international investment forum is held to establish a constructive dialogue between the administration of the capital and participants in business projects of Kazakhstan and players in the world market.
The Prime Minister of India noted the intention of his country to strengthen cooperation in the field of space and information technologies, to use their results for management and development.
general presentations to the conference programme, in-session meetings, scientific seminars.
In turn, the Minister thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation and noted that the ties of the two peoples have a centuries-old history.
Work on the projects of the industrialization map continues, despite the emerging problems. despite the difficulties , the work on the new projects of the industrialization map is continued .
the company additionally used credit funds to purchase raw materials and materials under the Development Regions III program.
Also, during the visit of the head of state to China, Kazavtodor and Eximbank reached an agreement on the organization of financing investment projects in the road industry of Kazakhstan.
High rates of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between Kazakhstan and China were noted.
As a result, it is planned to repair 214 km of roads, of which 51 km will be commissioned in 2016, "the report said.
The Mothers' Council was recently established, during which time a number of good deeds have been done. the council of mothers has been created recently , but during this time we have done a lot of good , useful things .
it's very important.
the average score is 78.4.
He noted that the doors of the Embassy of Kazakhstan are always open to children and their parents.
internships were established among us, Kazakhstanis - participants of scientific and practical conferences, round table. there are internship programs between our countries , kazakhstanis are frequent guests of the scientific-practical conferences , " round tables . "
in his election program, the president drew attention to two double elements.
this meeting received only two collaborations. this meeting is only a small step on the threshold of reasonable and productive for both countries .
When making changes to the industrialization program, the direction has changed, now we are considering support for specific industries and support for labor capital in Kazakhstan, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
The Uzbek ethnocultural center in the capital actively interacts with state bodies. the uzbek ethnocultural center in astana cooperates with state authorities .
participants will also discuss the creation of a joint Russian-Chinese university in the People's Republic of China; " History of cooperation between CIS member states: history, politics, culture, economy "and an inclusive educational course.
The limited development cooperation program is based on the directions defined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, five institutional reforms announced by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, a new economic policy "nұr the way to the future" and sustainable development goals after 2015.
attracting investments, developing public-private partnerships should become one of the main areas of work at this stage, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
a guest from Italy got acquainted with the main pavilion of expo-2017 - "Kazakhstan" and the construction of exhibition facilities.
According to K. Tokayev, Kazakhstan is pleased with the decision of the Cubans, who became one of the first countries in the world to recognize the independence of our country.
Negotiations are also underway with the German company Mall Mining Samruk on the construction of a battery plant using lead in this territory.
continue active political dialogue, develop contacts at all levels, comprehensively intensify trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian relations.
The press conference will be attended by the general director - a member of the board for the development of white business "samruk-kazyna."
Within the framework of the business forum, bilateral meetings were held at which the participants discussed field examples of bilateral cooperation.
also at the meeting of the Security Council, topical international issues on the agenda, the situation in the Middle East and Afghanistan were discussed.
over the past four years, 43 billion tenge has been spent on this industry, "he said.
the ceremony will be attended by students, parents, faculty and heads of large national companies.
The working trip took place at a meeting with social workers.
we pay special attention to the holding of a session of the general assembly of the iuba, during which work will be carried out on the transfer of the secretariat and the creation of working bodies, "the minister said.
According to the TV presenter, this is a great idea - to transfer the EXPO-2017 exhibition and the museum-tv award to the capital this year.
about a third of the influx of migrants comes from 2 large cities: Almaty and the capital.
According to the head of state, this is compensation for Kazakhstan, because the "beam road" has just begun, and next year it will be widely distributed.
During the meeting, the participation of the Omani delegation in the work of the X Eurasian Forum "New Energy Horizon: New Opportunities for Partnership and Investment," scheduled in the capital from September 29 to October 1 of this year, was discussed.
Recall that the international Air Cards 2015 competition is held for the first time as part of the international army games 2015 (army-2015).
we have a coat of arms, a flag, a hymn.
secondly, it saves budget funds.
in the leading countries, there are two components: a fast economy and modernization, a stable constitutional system and a stable state. the history shows that all the leading countries have two main components : a dynamic economy and modernization ; the stable constitutional system and the strong state .
As the Minister noted, in this regard, improving the investment climate depends on working with each project and investor separately.
The total cost of the facility amounted to 5.5 billion tenge.
in addition, the berdybek will get acquainted with two objects of construction of saparbayev - the sports palace and the Nazarbayev intellectual school.
today we are talking about a green economy, the meaning of which is the renewal of energy and the economy.
As the Prime Minister explained, the formation of an exchange rate based on market demand can contribute to the restoration of economic growth, the emergence of new jobs, the growth of credit and investment activity, and the reduction of inflation in the average period to 3-4%.
This year, the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019 was launched.
high speed of development of the second tranche, half of these funds were directed to refinancing or structuring, and the first tranche was spent only on new projects, "he said.
He also took part in the capital's Ice-TV show, where he saw Russian and Kazakh stars.
During the bilateral meetings, issues considered at the upcoming forum were previously discussed.
the cost of the first - 397.1 million tenge, the second - 397.1 million tenge.
Vice Minister of Health and Social Development will take part in the press conference.
The head of the city visited the logistics center of LLP "Gega," where there are no railway tracks.
in my opinion, this is a modern, prosperous, beautiful city, based on innovation.
N. Modi noted the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the formation and dynamic development of Kazakhstan.
the first President of Mongolia spoke during the Panzirbat event. highly appreciated the role of Nazarbayev in the development of the country.
This is especially important in the light of the socio-political reforms being carried out in the country and the implementation of large-scale economic plans voiced by the head of state in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the message to the people "Nұr the way to the future," the chairman of the public commission said.
I want to thank you again for your joint work and assure you that we are ready for the upcoming work in the interests of all members of the organization, for the benefit of our economies and peoples, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
We encourage Serbian business to use the methods and measures created in our country for entrepreneurs. we invite the serbian business to discover all the measures and incentives that have been created specifically for entrepreneurs .
Cooperation with European partners in ensuring the rule of law is relevant for Kazakhstan, "said D. Abieva.
firstly, there is no simplified way of legalization. firstly , the procedure of money legalization has been simplified .
4.6 thousand people (9%) are low-income citizens, 28.4 thousand (52%) are unemployed for more than 1 year.
Issues related to the development of manufacturing, agriculture and trade between border regions were also discussed.
Currently, the services can be used by residents of East Kazakhstan region, Astana, "explained the chairman of the board of Kazpost.
this funding will be available for 7 years from 2014 to 2020, "he explained.
Especially since the signing of the agreement on the free trade zone between Vietnam and eo, the economy and trade, the oil and gas industry are the main areas of cooperation of our countries, "the telegram says.
One of my wishes is that this project is not completed, "said the expedition member.
within the framework of the project, exhibitions, project protection, games, master classes, concerts will be held.
In addition, the Indian business environment was presented with the logistical capabilities necessary for export-import operations in the region, the report said.
this book is about a great, strong country, about conquering space, about the birth of national diplomacy, about the rejection of nuclear tests and these weapons, about the fact that the future metropolis is an excellent creation of the capital, and about the formation of the Eurasian economic space. and most importantly, about a man who was reflected in the emergence of such an amazing international concept as modern multinational modern Kazakhstan, which has flourished over a millennium.
we have a model of education, the state provides us with support, "he said.
On November 18-19, the conference "Innovations and modern technologies in road construction" will be held as part of the exhibition.
Having studied these plans, we identified the competencies that universities should master and developed a program for them, "he said.
During the meeting, the head of state was informed about the main issues of implementing state programs "Nұrly zhol" and industrial and innovative development of the country.
academic diplomatic club is a free platform for discussing important issues of international relations in the field of politics, economics, culture and education.
Tsinghua, the largest Chinese corporation, is actively involved in the project.
also notifies the head of state of the beginning of the construction of the Ural road section - the border of the Russian Federation and the completion of the construction of 3 dry cargo terminals in the sea "sea whitewash."
During the meeting, K. Massimov reported to the head of state on the socio-economic development of the country and the implementation of the main state programs.
the parties discussed the implementation of joint projects and the further development of cooperation in the nuclear industry.
now a new economy is forming, and Kazakhstan, located between the large market of China and Russia, has the opportunity to become a logistics, transport and investment center. a new geo-economics appears , and kazakhstan , located between the large markets of russia and china , gets a chance to become the logistics , transport and investment center .
On October 6-7, 2015, the capital will host a meeting of the leadership of the aerospace committee (Kazkosmos) with a delegation led by the director of the Dutch space office (Ngk), Ger Newport.
today in the politics of any central state, water is in a problematic situation, "said Nysanbaev.
Also expressed satisfaction with the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the People's Republic of China on international road traffic of September 26, 1992.
Most of the appeals are due to social issues: employment - 21%, provision of housing and land plots - 19%, social security, benefits, pensions - 15%, LCD-14%, appeals to law enforcement agencies - 10%, "said K. Askakalov.
In this regard, the Chairman of the Senate drew the attention of the Bulgarian side to new business opportunities in Kazakhstan.
Following the results of the forum, participants met in the format of "v2v" and "v2g," memoranda were signed on the allocation of land for the construction of a transport and logistics center in Almaty, as well as on the implementation of new investment projects in the country between the Shymkent akk and the Zhetysu shopping and logistics complex.
The constitution is a fundamental law that unites everything, "said A. Sarsenbayev.
in particular, the next meeting of the top officials of the Almaty process is planned to be held in Kazakhstan in September this year.
products will be directed to the domestic market and exports to the CIS countries, central Asia and eastern Europe.
33,562 objects and securities worth 235.3 billion tenge were legalized, the report said.
He also noted the importance of the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital, as well as the development of bilateral cooperation opportunities in the framework of Kazakhstan's promotion to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 and Kazakhstan's entry into force.
every athlete deserves a gold medal, "said Vadim Pryasnyuk, head coach of the Kazakhstan national team.
the register includes national natural parks with a large diamond lake, sharyn, dzungar torch, kolsai lake, shymbulak mountain sanatorium, honey, blue beach, surface nature reserve, as well as famous tourist attractions: whitewash, limestone, eagle, rides, saryagash, taraz and others.
in order to implement these measures, a law on agricultural cooperation must be adopted.
By 2019, according to the plan for the development of special economic zones, about 50 projects will be launched and more than 20 thousand jobs created, the report said.
at the same time, the department develops, approves and implements large-scale projects.
Last December, a new railway line was opened connecting three countries with the participation of the presidents of Kazakhstan, Iran, Turkmenistan.
The new form of education is equipped with a medical room, music and sports, a playground.
The conference participants discussed the implementation of state policy in the field of constitutional order, inter-ethnic relations, comprehensive work on the formation of Kazakhstan patriotism and identity, the implementation of large-scale social projects of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "big country - big family," my country, "the inclusion of the values ​ ​ of the idea of ​" eternal country "in the modern curriculum.
the agricultural sector is important for the economic and social development of the country and is the source of income for more than half of the population.
From March 16 to October 26 of this year, mobilization groups covered 4052 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 7014 times.
environmental safety certificate plays a big role in determining competitiveness, "he said.
As the leader of the nation noted, the main goal is to strengthen trade and economic cooperation.
we, compared to last year, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Between 16 March and 17 November of this year, mobilization groups covered 4,677 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 7,507 times.
including the removal of customs barriers will supplant the shadow sector, "the expert explained.
Initially, Soviet correctional institutions were built for various facilities, "he explained at a press conference in the CCS.
this will lead to an increase in the staff of the supreme court, "he said.
The press conference will be attended by the Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly, Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Darhan Mynbai, curator of the collection chitra by newby aneta aslakhanov and deputy curator of caroline caroline mccaffrey dinar baidal.
As part of the implementation of 100 concrete steps for the training of qualified personnel, 10 colleges have been identified for 6 main sectors of the economy.
the project of a new silk road will turn Kazakhstan into the central state of the Eurasian continent.
children aged one to 16 are brought up in the village. Zhenalaev.
we will build modern shopping centers for those engaged in trade, "said Baurzhan Baibek.
as a business incubator, technology parks, credit unions. we need to create the appropriate infrastructure support , business incubators , technology parks , credit unions and others .
As part of the state program for the development of single-industry towns, this year the small and medium-sized business and economy of the Zhanaozensky city were diversified.
we believe that the adoption of this document will allow us to proceed to concrete negotiations with the European state to achieve a simplified visa regime for citizens of our country, "he added.
The Chairman of the Senate noted that the visit of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the United Kingdom in November this year will be aimed at bringing the strategic partnership of the two countries to a new level of cooperation in trade, economic, investment and political spheres.
The financing plan for 10 months of 2015 is 13.7 billion tenge.
it is planned to be completed in December.
I congratulate all residents of the district, I wish them health, good luck in their work, "the governor of the district congratulated the residents of asylbek ismagambets.
it opens the way for our enterprises to foreign markets, provides various goods and services for the population, "President Nursultan Nazarbayev said in a message to the people following the negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization.
A school with a large number of students will have appropriate funds, "the minister said.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev received a congratulatory letter to Chilean President Michel bachelet on Independence Day and a letter from Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
tomorrow in the capital. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that when working with large subsoil companies, their authority should be used to attract advanced companies such as siemens, samsung, toyota and others with new technologies to the expo 2017.
the certificate goes to the personal account of the e-government, "said the head of the Mobile Government project gulmira isabekova.
in popularity, skoda ranks third if hyundai i kia has great popularity, "said B. Zhamishev.
For this purpose, in March of this year, a master plan for the development of tourism in the North Kazakhstan region and a plan of measures for its implementation were approved.
During the talks, issues of trade, economic, industrial and innovative cooperation, cooperation in the framework of large-scale transport projects, cooperation in the field of energy, agriculture were discussed.
at the enterprises of LLC Vodokanal mkk., Semipalatinsk Vodokanal, Oriental Energy Raid, Teplokomunenergo, engineering systems are being restored, old ones are being updated, and obsolete equipment is being replaced.
Recall that the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is held in the capital.
According to him, the main factors affecting the overall level of satisfaction during the analysis are the parties' full consideration of the arguments (77.4%) and indicators of confidence in the court (78.3%).
The meeting was also attended by the Chairman of the Atameken Board Ablai Myrzakhmetov, the Chairman of the Board of Ascar Elesov, the Chairman of the Board of Baiterek Ubh Kuandyk Bishimbayev, representatives of interested state bodies and national companies.
individual charity foundation together with the prize on ice TV held a large social action "We support an inclusive future."
I am sure that tomorrow's interreligious summit will give impetus to the mission of peace, "said K. Tokaev.
I do not oblige you, but if possible, I ask you to trade currency in the country, not to keep it outside, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
hotel banks, ministries of finance and ministries of economic development work closely here.
book publishers and librarians of Russia and Kazakhstan have long been in friendship and cooperation. the scribes and librarians of russia and kazakhstan are joined by friendship and cooperation ties for a long time .
Today, at a meeting with President Nursultan Nazarbayev, we discussed ways to develop cooperation between the two countries.
The former Prime Minister of Great Britain sent his best wishes to Nursultan Nazarbayev and the entire Kazakh people.
shows the results of the work, "he said.
aa. He familiarized the interlocutor with the current current political and socio-economic events of the country, including the Astana Economic Forum, the results of the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, as well as the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
A. Aymbetova - the beginning of the stage of development of the innovative space industry of the national economy of Kazakhstan. flight of aidyn aimbetov became the beginning of a new stage in the development of innovative space industry of the national economy .
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev named a number of priority areas of cooperation between states, one of which is the development of regional cooperation.
two new houses built under the "Nұrly zhol" program met their residents in the southwestern region.
The meeting was attended by heads of companies, directors of branches, deputy directors of branches for economics and finance, heads of oil pipeline departments, heads of subsidiaries and jointly controlled companies, heads of white departments and kaztransoil services.
In August, the construction of a school with 600 seats will begin.
these are companies such as rg brands, eurasian foods corporation, agronomist, bayan beauty, maslo-del, alageum group, alina.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan provides not only a site on its territory, but also provides a qualified team, security, electricity, communications.
Within the framework of the forum, an exhibition of Kazakh-Japanese investment projects will be held.
bug - protection of the territory and borders of the State Parties against the armed aggressors, fight against a terroziya, terrorism, drugs, - the deputy secretary-general of the United Nations the colonel general of century of semerik noted.
At the same time, Kazakhstan is perceived in the international arena as a worthy player in the modern political world, "he said.
Central Asia is rich not only in natural resources, but also in human resources. "
kazatomprom is an important part of the development stage of the fund's group of companies.
in the Taldykorgan, an August meeting was held on the topic: "new educational programs, innovations and an approach to competence - a successful school."
According to the akim, this project is implemented as a result of the agreement between the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and the President of the country Sheikh Caliph and the loan al nahyan.
The event will be attended by the President of the Association of Cardiologists of the Turkish World Omer Kozan, heads of health in Great Britain, Italy, France, Germany, Japan, Austria, Portugal, Serbia, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, as well as cardiologists and therapists from the regions of the country.
we celebrate this momentous date after our independence. we celebrate this date under the conditions of independence .
we have two exit points. in our country , there will be two entry points : east kazakhstan region and almaty region .
Kazakhstan, Russia, Japan, China, Brazil, Turkey, South Africa, Czech Republic, Great Britain, Canada, Portugal.
3.8 billion tenge was allocated from the budget, during this time SMEs produced 192 billion tenge worth of products.
the parties agreed to intensify cooperation between the "national agency for the development of land content" nadloc "and cpit, including the opening of joint ventures.
the top ten included New Zealanders, Austria, Germany, Singapore and Autralia.
military personnel of Kazakhstan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan competed in six competitions.
The winner of the competition received a prize fund in the amount of 1,674,000 tenge.
now humanity has material, scientific and technical, intellectual capabilities. today , humanity has great material , scientific , technical , and intellectual opportunities .
several commissions work here to oversee the order and the law, "he said.
our basic law contains all legal methods aimed at the development of the nation and self-realization. the basic law of our country has all the legal tools for the successful development of the nation .
these companies will open their centers on the territory of the intellectual and innovative cluster at Nazarbayev University, the minister said.
Kazakhstan is also considering this process.
the number of those who received a bachelor's degree in the Faculty of Information Technology reached 461, the Faculty of Transport and Energy - 448, the Faculty of Economics - 401, "the report said.
such documents are signed by other national, public and private educational institutions of the two countries.
only the "proton" remained.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Therefore, one of the special topics that we consider at the forum is leadership in the framework of the slogan "Transform your company."
bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the EAEU is an important step for the development of mutual trade relations and cooperation in the Central Asian region.
today, civil and national identity is the foundation of society. today , the basis of society is the civil and national identity .
as part of this, a single logo "made in Kazakhstan" was created.
The Minister of Defense of China also noted the contribution of the Kazakh president to the formation of a new appearance of the country.
From October last year to March this year, goods with hewlett-packard products were transported in refrigerated containers 190 times.
workers of the plant thanked the President of Kazakhstan for supporting industry and manufacturing.
Recall that the 27th International Olympiad was held in Almaty from July 26 to August 2 at the excavations named after al-Farabi.
The Kazakh Minister noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries in the field of culture and art.
The conference will be attended by the director of the National Library of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a writer, a laureate of the state prize of alibek askars, the director of the National Historical, Cultural and Nature Museum-Reserve "Ulytau" baktiyar kozhakhmetov and the director of the state historical and cultural museum-reserve "Monuments of historical scales" such as Moldakins.
It should be noted that by the end of the year it is planned to introduce more than 20 new services in the CES, including the Ministries of Investment and Development, Agriculture, Justice, Finance and Defense.
It should be noted that by the end of the year it is planned to introduce more than 20 new services in the CES, including the Ministries of Investment and Development, Agriculture, Justice, Finance and Defense.
The work organized for orphans and the poor will continue this year.	this year , the work to support orphan students and disabled was continued and expanded .	1,23
Today, the project is ready and is being considered by the parties, "S. Zhakupova added.
they are appointed to their respective positions.
in addition, kaznex invest continues to collect applications from exporting companies that want to use financial support for white exports, pre-export, leasing.
He said that American companies, which are rightly one of the world leaders in the development of green technologies and the introduction of alternative energy sources, are ready to present their new technologies in the capital.
the meeting was attended by famous writers, cultural figures - a.tarazi, a.saray, sashdosanov, d.isabekov., n.urazalin.
A big role in this was played by the program "Nұrly sting."
Note that the Khorgos-East Gate is one of the forms of the new Aea Nұrly zhol economic policy program.
this step was taken as part of the introduction of co-financing of investment projects with the bank.
modern school is an institution of national identity organization.
others were involved in construction and agricultural work, repair and operation of roads.
In the first direction of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" 66 people were employed, 63 were sent for training.
This year Kazakhstan has joined the membership. this year , kazakhstan has become a member of the wto , and now we have started to use international standards .
in accordance with the requirements of this law, all actions of the authorities must be administered by the court. according to this law , all the government 's actions are under judicial contestation .
progress has been made in the legislative, judicial, administrative and other spheres of Kazakhstan, "said B. Imashev.
B. Sarsenbaev held a meeting with the Minister of Trade and Production of Sri Lanka, Rashid Basudin and the Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Chitrangani Vagiswara.
Such work is carried out between state bodies. these works are carried out between the state bodies .
In 2016 - 90 billion tenge, and then 100 billion tenge annually, "said M. Zhaymbetov.
The President of Kazakhstan also held a meeting with the asset of the region, during which he introduced a new akim of the region.
topics of discussion at a religious forum: the responsibility of religious and political figures to humanity; the impact of religion on young people; new manifestations and prospects for spiritual and political interaction; mutual respect and understanding of leaders of world and traditional religions on the road to peace, security and harmony.
In this regard, Bolashakov residents will go to serve the regions in order to quickly do their job, "he said.
it is also proposed to transfer other companies owned by the Samruk-kazyna fund to a competitive environment, "he said.
During the meeting, the issues of socio-economic development of the region were considered, including those related to the pricing of food products, the preservation of jobs and the timely payment of wages.
prices for them are 15-20% lower than the market, 64 social outlets are open, "said S. Kulagin.
we have already begun work in this direction, experimental recreation grounds for citizens appear in each district. we have already started work in this direction , experimental sites are created in each district for the leisure of citizens , the places of public spaces have been defined .
we are ready to erect a monument in honor of Shevchenko in the capital, and we will continue to work in the cultural sphere, "N. Nazarbayev said.
his exhibitions were organized in Riga, Kiev, Bishkek, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Almaty, the capital, Hungary and Germany.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that an agreement has been concluded with the British side on the opening of an additional flight between the capital and London.
b. saparbayev and. aimbet. handed the banner to the assemblies of the people of Kazakhstan and "expo-2017" and wished good luck to another crew of the spacecraft: commander Sergei Volkov (roscosmos) and andreas mogensen (ega).
As noted in the conclusion of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security, this bill was developed as part of the execution of the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party and the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In August 2015, the monetary base expanded by 11.3% and amounted to 4307.3 billion tenge (from the beginning of the year - expansion by 26.2%).
according to the decree of the government of the country "On some issues of privatization," the joint-stock company Holding Zerde, as part of the second wave of privatization, plans to sell about 38% of the stake in its joint-stock company International University of Information Technologies.
high economic and political potential for cooperation between the two countries.
As the Ambassador noted, the strategies announced at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev determine the main path of a prosperous and effectively developed country.
Despite the distance from the construction projects, Almaty region enterprises intend to actively participate in the expo-2017 project.
Also in the future, we will transport our products from Kazakhstan to other Russian and Chinese countries, "said the Polish entrepreneur.
The design director of qazaq air ak said that prices at the airline bler pollok are available.
the idea of creating a special educational institution for the armed forces of independent Kazakhstan to train future military leaders from the school walls, the opinion of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we adjust our methods.
Probably, some politicians are looking for benefits from the diversity of religions for themselves and for different states, "he said.
- Bukhudm offers results, the government of Kazakhstan tries to use advice.
as well as "winged women of Kazakhstan" and "soul."
the strength and vitality of our people - in the friendship and tolerance of all religious denominations, understanding, soreness, "said the leader of the nation.
Head of the Department of the Ministry of Population Development and Social Protection of Mongolia Noen h.b. made a presentation on "The current situation of women and their contribution to the development of the country" and reported that three areas of work had been adopted and were under way.
today we have two plants in the capital and Aktobe. today , we have two factories in astana and aktobe .
in particular, he saw the reconstruction of beams at the entrance and the construction of two bas-reliefs.
Minister of Health and Social Development Svetlana Zhakupova noted that the social service remains one of the most important tasks of the state.
today China is the second largest trading partner of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is ready to exchange experience, "Y. Togzhanov said.
The 13th Muz-TV award ceremony will be held in the capital on June 5, 2015.
antler, sea and conifer vaporizations, laser therapy, mud clinic, inhalation, therapeutic aggravation, wax treatment and others.
He congratulated Kazakhstan on the completion of negotiations on joining the world trade organization, as well as on the successful holding of a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
- Agreement between the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Committee on Youth, Sports and Tourism under the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the talks, the parties discussed the prospects of bilateral relations in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, shared information and experience on the organization of administrative activities of the foreign ministry, personnel policy, assessing the work of state institutions abroad, and training international specialists.
a house of culture for 150 places and communes. "
The Kazakh diplomat thanked Lebanon for important international initiatives of Kazakhstan, including its membership in the Human Rights Council, holding an expo-2017 in the capital, creating a food fund with a shoulder, and unstable membership in the UN Security Council.
Local executive bodies (akimats) organize and conduct conscription together with local military administration bodies (military commissariat).
Ekdb will work in various areas, including the development of small and medium-sized businesses, infrastructure, industry and innovation in our country.
in addition, according to nadloc, Kazakhstan content plays an important role.
what does it mean?
the life path of the head of state is a testament for youth.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The President of Kazakhstan has created an expert council, which includes lawyers, politicians, introduced their amendments and amendments, "he added.
why?
he develops educated, knowledgeable citizens of Kazakhstan.
- Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information;
metallurgy, mechanical engineering, muaychemistry, food production, production of building materials and chemical production.
in addition, we opened our branches in cities such as Kyzylorda, Shymkent, Aktau, Atiru.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Saudi Arabia Bakhyt Batyrshayev spoke about the main achievements in the political, socio-economic development of Kazakhstan under the leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, noting that the country is developing thanks to the balanced policy pursued by the head of state.
Long-term preferential investment projects by DBK are carried out on the following conditions: nominal interest rate - not more than 6% per annum, crediting period - up to 10 years, preferential period for repayment of principal debt - 24 months, financing limit per borrower - from 200 million tenge to 5 billion tenge.
and our roots are our history, the history of our state.
According to him, this is the merit of the President of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan, along with Australia and Canada, occupies a leading position in the world in the number of crops for each resident, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
before we helped on trainings, training, the supporting programs, sometimes financed the project", - told the item koktyshev.
Among the participants of the forum are the Prime Minister of Malaysia, former President of Bolivia Jorge Quiroga, Buudb Administrator, former Prime Minister of New Zealand Helen Clark, former Prime Minister of Singapore, former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, prominent sportsman, actor and former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Olympic champion Karl Lan The founder of starbucks is a zigle, president of the international association of athletics federations, Olympic champion lord sebastian koe, head of the Welsh judicial committee of pierluigi collina.
As the President of the contest noted, over the years the contest "Miss Kazakhstan" has become popular persons of Kazakhstan.
we expect the arrival of a famous Russian scientist, director of the state hermitage Mikhail Priotrovsky. of course , we expect the visit of famous russian scientist , general director of the state hermitage mikhail piotrovsky .
he noted that "today the objects of social infrastructure will be attributed to statehood: kindergartens, hospitals, clinics, schools, etc."
During the consultations between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, the parties discussed the integration of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" with the Chinese initiative "economic belt of the silk road," cooperation within international organizations, in the consular sphere.
At the same time, it is necessary to constantly improve the quality of products, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
they participate in organizational work.
in Alma-Ata district there are 20 LED lamps, the areas of Sh. Udaiberdiula, Abylai Khan, Independence, Karaotkel Bridge, Baraev Street are decorated.
Recall that the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions began its work in the capital.
Following the meeting, the Baiterek holding, kdb and the Development Fund, together with banks, were tasked with intensifying work on the development of funds allocated from the national fund.
According to the Minister, the main tasks of the three-year budget are to ensure a balanced budget and economic security.
In the direction of employment, successes have been achieved through the employment center in Pyatigorsk and Zyryanovsky (100%), Zaysan (74) districts, "said Aizhan Sadykova, head of the Department for the Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of East Kazakhstan Region.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital will become an effective platform for demonstrating advanced world developments and trends in the energy sector.
in this regard, I instruct the government to conduct an analysis, develop a plan for anti-crisis work, determine the necessary measures and bring them to the population, "the head of state said.
This document is aimed at creating favorable legal conditions for promoting and protecting investments, improving the investment climate and further developing trade and economic cooperation, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
Kazakhstan and Korea complement each other, because we do not produce oil and gas like Kazakhstan, we produce installations for the extraction of natural resources. kazakhstan and korea are complementary , because we do not produce oil and gas as kazakhstan , but we create equipment for the production and supply of minerals .
aa. The cat also informed in detail about the work of the regional representative office of the AKB in Central Asia.
Participation in the Business Roadmap 2020 program allowed us to promote the business.
I am sure that the common mission of all companies that are members of the Kazenergy association and our common efforts will ensure the creation of a highly efficient industry that contributes to advanced international standards, the letter says.
The main goal of the event is to promote respect for state symbols, the coat of arms and the anthem, the report said.
According to the director of the residential complex Kuanysh Suleimenov, next year the camp will begin its work early, where many children will rest.
The total cost of the project is 7.1 million euros.
According to him, such events will be held in all areas of the region.
The meeting was attended by members of the advisory commission from the EAEU state and business communities, members of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
it was a very complex process, we identified protons and dispatches on schedule.
Kazakhstan's economic life is diversifying production and developing small and medium-sized businesses through foreign investments and technologies. in the economic life kazakhstan conducts diversification of industry and development of small and medium-sized businesses through the introduction of foreign investment and technology .
the fourth theme is "building security and harmony between world and traditional religions on the basis of mutual respect and understanding for peace."
Protocol on Amendments to the Eurasian Economic Union Treaty of May 29, 2014 and certain international treaties, included in the law of the Eurasian Economic Union, in connection with the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, signed at a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in Moscow on May 8, 2014 (protocol on amendments);
The head of state instructed to comply with EU standards. the head of state gave instructions to comply with oecd standards .
According to him, the humanitarian procurement market is a long-term project.
in total, 50 technological applications and proposals were considered with the International Technology Transfer Center, 14 projects were implemented, including 8 research projects, 6 - mechanical engineering, metallurgical energy, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and others.
we analyzed, we have 32% of tax inspections for their liquidation. we conducted an analysis , we have almost 32 % of tax audits accounted for liquidation audits .
the text of the law is published in the press.
last year, the Greek girl took 1st place. "
universities have shown good vigilance, so this work should be continued.
The beginning of the energy efficiency policy coincided with the first five-year plan, "said A. Rau.
This year, more than 150 specialists from China, Mongolia, Belarus, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan take part in the course.
This year, 5 new enterprises were launched with the participation of transnational corporations that belong to mechanical engineering, oil and chemistry.
student scholarships, tuition fees, dormitory space and insurance policy.
Despite the difficulties, we are creating conditions for improving social mood, "the president concluded.
the more efficient it will be, the more the company will be able to return investments, "said A. Rau.
it is planned to develop two innovative clusters based on the Astana Business Campus of the Nazarbayev University of Innovative Technologies in the field of science and the Alatau Park of Innovative Technologies.
According to the organizers, the fair "anyrau job fair" is a platform for searching for work, which can get full information about vacant jobs and directly communicate with employers.
Since June 8, our competition has been held in all regions of Kazakhstan. the republican contest was held in all regions of kazakhstan .
The congress is also attended by the heads of the UN Secretaries General, Ecu, UNESCO, Christians, Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Shintozyme and members of several other international organizations.
During the talks, issues of trade, economic, industrial and investment cooperation, cooperation in the framework of transit transport projects, strengthening cooperation on the effective use and protection of water resources of transnational rivers were discussed.
we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our activities - the civil defense service. we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of our service - the service of civil protection .
I even tried to introduce a formula for our profitability, it is tolerant.
The Deputy Prime Minister also noted the importance of holding an international conference on information and communication technologies in social security in the capital on September 2-4 under the patronage of truth.
musicians recently returned from Switzerland, and next year they plan to perform in England, Romania and Kazakhstan.
leading museums and libraries, archives of the country in the future will change the organizational and legal form, move from state institutions to the treasury in order to increase economic activity, "the minister said.
in third place is the crew of the Azerbaijani ship "g-124."
development ratings are equal to the independent credit ratings of the Republic of Kazakhstan, since the fund is part of the baiterek group and is one of the main organizations supporting small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan.
Recall that the first republican bike ride took place in 2013, this year the multi-day bike race takes place from July 16 to 24, 2015.
most of them are located on the scales, as well as in areas of noise, standards, etc., "the akim of the region noted.
all of them are funds of private investors, "he said.
another very important issue is questions. another very important aspect is the youth .
In 2015, construction work was carried out on 94 km of the road, on 3 sections.
According to the work plan of the expert commission, the party "Nұr Otan" studied the work in Pavlodar region on the anti-corruption program for 2015-2025.
also doubled the number of mothers with many children awarded with the signs "golden college" and "silver college."
since the beginning of this year, state registration for small and medium-sized enterprises is free.
We took the first place in attracting direct investment in countries remote from the sea, "the minister said.
this conference will assess and analyse the legal achievements of Kazakhstan. this conference will consider issues of analysis and evaluation of the legal achievements of kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan joined the atlm project. kazakhstan institute of strategic studies joins atom project .
I support the second name of Kazakhstan - the great steppe state, and I believe that future generations should know their history and culture, "the poet said.
we must respect the constitution as a law at the highest level. we must treat the constitution as holiness , as a value , as the law of the highest standard , " he has concluded .
From March 16 to September 28 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3601 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting it 6158 times.
this promotes the diamond brand. this is a great opportunity to promote the brand of almaty .
this will reduce prices for domestic products in the domestic and foreign markets and increase competitiveness, "the minister said.
As a result of the work, the volume of gross agricultural output will reach 346.6 billion tenge, the volume index will be brought to 105%.
talk about a single, national unity if there is no national idea, "he added.
Due to the Business Roadmap 2020, the state attracted all the infrastructure here.
we are allies of Asia and Europe, are distinguished by hospitality and elegance.
this is correct, because it is necessary to develop the domestic market, "he said.
The meeting was attended by Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council N.Rermekbayev and Chairman of the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development T.Musabayev.
On the agenda of the meeting is a discussion of the development strategy of member countries and partner countries.
Despite the fact that the city was built and built earlier, we must look for new ways to implement improvement measures, "said A. Yesimov.
Our main goal is to create an effective and predictable tax system, coordinating the interests of the state and taxpayers, "said the head of the upper house.
maximum average monthly wage wholesale and retail; employees of enterprises engaged in the repair of cars and motorcycles determined 116420 tenge, "the report said.
energy conservation in the Eurasian region: a new mechanism of cooperation. "
This program will contribute to the high-quality and dynamic development of healthcare in Kazakhstan. " an emirate.
During the meeting, the parties considered the prospects for the development of the energy sector, as well as issues of increasing the participation of the corporation in the coal industry of Kazakhstan.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, the government is considering all measures to improve the investment climate in the agro-industrial complex.
The seminar was attended by representatives of the sanitary and epidemiological station, departments of state revenues, justice, internal affairs.
The winner in the nomination "Best Young Scientist" will represent the country at the international competition of scientists famelab in London.
as a result, it was possible to raise significant funds in the national fund and solve many social issues from the budget.
with the support of religious leaders in the world, we strive to act in advance and strategically so as not to use religion as a propaganda means of violence and war, "the minister emphasized.
kindergarten is designed for 6 groups.
Today, a solemn signing ceremony was held with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017 Akhmetzhan Yessimov and the President of Airastan Airline St. Petersburg Foster.
we gathered here to organize the second exploration of Kazakhstan's investment policy. we are here to review the investment policy of kazakhstan .
Within its framework, a ceremony will be held to launch new projects of the industrialization map and the construction of infrastructure facilities as part of the Nұrly Zhol program.
agreed with entrepreneurs, they agreed to realize these goals, "said B. Saparbayev.
The Kazakh side informed the participants of the event about the regional conference on the countries of central and southern Asia, which was held in the capital on June 29-30 this year.
The highest indicator was noted in March - industrial products worth 115.6 billion tenge were produced.
now our company is one of the largest in Poland. our company is one of the biggest in poland .
this pushes states to cooperate at the mutual and interregional levels, "he explained.
we also participate in all events held in kha.
we will win this, in the formation of a moral and psychological climate in the relationship between mother and child, "he said.
your last state visit to Kazakhstan took place four years ago. your last state visit to kazakhstan happened four years ago .
Kazakhstan pays particular attention to this issue compared to other countries.
representatives of the holding company alageum electric drew attention to the fact that the multifaceted work of Nursultan Nazarbayev on the path of prosperity of Kazakhstan deserves the highest assessments and respect.
We have met with representatives of banks more than once, we have considered a number of areas of joint work, "the akim said.
Given the social significance of the action, over the past year alone, more than 300 thousand children received assistance totaling more than 2 billion tenge, including sponsors provided assistance for 190 thousand children for 1 billion.
According to him, from October 12 to 16, 248 people were employed for permanent jobs.
he also expressed support for the cooperation of the two countries within the framework of international organizations, including with regard to the capital's efforts to strengthen global and regional security, "the statement said.
Abdiibrachymglobalfarm, Biryunifarm LLP and Cha-kur medical farm are scheduled to be launched in October 2015.
we have different organizations, a young homeland, a "young council," a congress of Kazakh youth, which attract young leaders in different areas.
this is joyful news for us, "he said.
use of the new indexing system will allow to standardize all address data of the Republic of Kazakhstan. new indexing system standardizes all address data of kazakhstan .
Last month, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited Kazakhstan.
According to experts and investors working in the country, today Kazakhstan has created the best conditions for investment in Central Asia. according to experts and investors operating in the country , today kazakhstan has created the best conditions for investment in the central asian region .
according to him, this is a great achievement. space biomedicine and space biotechnology.
electricity supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning decreased by 1.5%, water supply, sewage system, control over the collection and distribution of waste - by 9.5%.
regulation of the country's world trade in goods, private and trade policies.
According to the ministry, the possibilities of interaction between the population of Kazakhstan and state bodies are expanding.
According to the Minister, in addition to traditional ties, cooperation is envisaged in the field of extraction and processing of raw materials, oil and gas, uranium, the industrial sector, transport logistics and innovative agriculture.
this is a serious job that requires a lot of work. this is very serious , painstaking ideological , economic , and social work .
On behalf of Baiterek Holding I congratulate all Kazakhstanis, Astana on the coming day of the capital.
The Minister of Culture and Sports, Tourism of Vietnam noted that in the near future the Vietnamese country is ready to sign an agreement on participation in the Expo 2017 exhibition and will send its national commissioner to the capital to discuss organizational work, "the statement said.
In previous years, the Kazenergy Forum will discuss issues of the oil and gas industry, electricity, nuclear production, basic tests and ways to overcome energy, the time of the financial crisis and crisis, environmental security, and the creation of strategic alliances, "said kazenergy CEO.
I believe that this conference should carry out correspondence of all religious leaders, political leaders to promote fraternal culture in their countries, "he said.
we support your international initiatives to reconcile east and west, "he said.
thus a new industry will be created.
the agreement provides for the transport of freight transport along an agreed route on the basis of an authorized escorting system (Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan).
The initiative of the head of state to modernize the great silk road is associated with the project of the President of China Xi Jinping "one belt - one road."
- Agreement on participation of the French Republic in the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Astana;
Nursultan Nazarbayev urged d.russeft to visit Kazakhstan in order to increase bilateral cooperation.
starting next year, all cars of budget institutions will switch to gas.
for us, this is one of the main tasks, "said A. Rau.
The SJ meeting discussed topical issues of regional and international level, issues of development of cooperation within the framework of Shu in the political, economic, cultural and humanitarian areas, as well as discussed issues of holding the Council of Heads of State in Ufa.
In the first half of 2015, goods and services were purchased from domestic producers in the amount of $300 million (55.5 billion tenge).
The document was signed by the chairman of the board of the Baiterek holding kuandyk bishimbayev, the chairman of the board of directors allurgroup andrey lavrentiev, the vice president of the psa peugeot citroèn christopher bergeran group.
this indicates the results of our mutual cooperation.
Ambassador Tuimebayev informed the opposite side about the main directions of Kazakhstan's economic policy.
Compared to the beginning of 2015, the total population of the city of Astana increased by 14,908 people, including in the Almaty district - by 1616 people, in the Yesil district - by 7,644 people, in the Saryarka district - by 5648 people.
Within the framework of this decision, Kazakhstan's activity was expressed, we receive proposals to expand the mandate of international organizations located in Kazakhstan. in light of this decision , kazakhstan has received offers to expand the mandates of the international organizations located in kazakhstan .
and in electronic turn, a new system has been introduced - triage.
According to him, this was the result of joint activities of the Government of Kazakhstan and the National Bank.
the project cost exceeds 2.5 billion tenge.
Following the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev gave a number of specific instructions to the government.
The head of state congratulated Benjamin Netanyahu on his re-election as Prime Minister of Israel and wished him success in his responsible activities.
Also, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev and Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing and Communal Services Gennady Zubko has drawn up the fifth road map of the Kazakh-Ukrainian action plan for 2015-2017.
The media forum has become a unique platform for familiarization with the experience of interaction of the population in Kazakhstan, "he said.
therefore, we still have high hopes for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, "he said.
We believe that the Merailaya Family contest should continue, "he concluded.
According to him, under the BZHK-2020 program, projects are successfully implemented.
The delegation included representatives and heads of mining engineering enterprises, automobile and infrastructure clusters, enterprises engaged in the production of energy resources, construction and agro-industrial industries.
During the action the participants voiced a number of opinions and offers on implementation of the draft of the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate", the large-scale project of Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan "the big country - big family", the national project on advance of the ideas of society of general work.
teaching and methodological terminology, social linguistics, and translation are constantly maintained. "
It will be attended by Advisor to AK Astana Expo-2017, Asanbaev Rose, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Gulnar Kurbanbaeva, Director of the Inna Rey Industry Union of Kazakhstan and General Manager of the Marketing and Advertising Department of Astana Expo-2017 Daniel Serganovich.
On July 9-10, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to participate in the Shu and Brix summits, which will be held in the city of Ufa of the Russian Federation.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the competent authorities of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, as well as members of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and experts specializing in this field.
One of the most important documents of the state is an eternal country, "he said.
over the past 5 years, we have attracted about $20 billion in foreign investment annually, "said the chairman of the committee.
The Governor of the region also met with the Mayor of Antalya, where they discussed issues of investment cooperation in the tourism sector, "the statement said.
- Kazakhstan's accession to WTO will be a big criticism for our producers, but our agency does not do it.
The Chairman noted the particular importance of the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, which is planned to be signed during the visit of the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the Federica Mogherini to the capital in December this year.
domestic tourism is developing well in Kazakhstan. domestic tourism in kazakhstan has been increased .
Also, a regional scientific and technological center, a start-up academy, a center for commercialization of regional technologies, an investment attraction agency and a number of other structures were opened in the region.
these companies have completed the delivered in the process of their creation and are now working on a competitive platform, "he said.
Within the framework of the V Congress, two general and four sectional meetings will be held.
funds from the regional budget were allocated for the construction of the school.
To date, more than 450 applications have been submitted to the onlineexpo-2017 competition.
From this point of view, I am grateful to all compatriots, founders of our society, who supported the idea of ​ ​ creating a Kazakh cultural center in Switzerland, "he said.
investment policy, social and economic development of Kazakhstan, strategic plans, goals and targets for the near and medium-term future.
kazlogistics - the union of transport workers of Kazakhstan offers modern possibilities of transit transportation through Kazakhstan on the world market together with Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC.
Vladimir Berdimukhamedov wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, inexhaustible energy, happiness, as well as success in the responsible public service in the name of peace, progress and prosperity of the friendly Kazakh people.
the potential of the bird market in Kazakhstan is very large. the poultry market in kazakhstan has huge potential .
every fifth project launched in Kazakhstan in the first five-year plan of industrial development has already been introduced in our region, "the head of the region said.
The opening of the Spartakiad took place at the Zatobolets stadium.
Recall that the XIV meeting of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions was held in the capital, and tomorrow the VI congress of leaders of world and traditional religions will begin.
help mothers through such large projects as care-mother, "road to school," help all mothers, "he said.
The European Union is the main trading and investment partner of Kazakhstan in the world.
The event was attended by members of parliament, members of the government, representatives of state bodies, the diplomatic corps, intelligentsia and business circles, culture and education, the press service of the akorda reports.
n. According to Nazarbayev, a number of investment projects are currently being considered between the states.
Since June 1 of this year, a composite service has been introduced for citizens who have lost their jobs. on june 1 , 2015 , kazakhstan introduced a composite service for people who lost their jobs .
our president's book has been published in 30,000 copies and distributed throughout the country.
The international women's boxing tournament was held in Bukhara (Uzbekistan).
in particular, the creation of a startup company, the development and modernization of existing enterprises and the introduction of advanced technologies for the development of new companies.
we see this in many regions of the world.
Kazakhstan plays a leading role in central Asia and strengthens its position in the international arena. kazakhstan plays a key role in central asia and strengthens the position in the international arena .
friendly relations between our countries have developed with the founder of the united Arab emirates, your fathers and President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. friendly relations between the two countries were started by the founder of the united arab emirates and president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .
we will continue to contribute to the success and prosperity of our Kazakhstan, "he concluded.
among them presidential all-around, translator, Kazakh wrestling, basketball, volleyball, table tennis, football, "the report said.
cooperation with international authoritative organizations ensures foreign policy stability.
Nevertheless, by removing barriers, promoting the principles of open cooperation, being the engine of regional integration, from the very beginning we are building our economic policy "in the spirit of dsu."
During the meeting of the party considered a number of agreements which are planned to be signed during the visit of the President of Kazakhstan to the People's Republic of China, discussed the new economic policy announced by Nursultan Nazarbayev "nrla zhol" and implementation of projects within an initiative of the Chinese President Xi Jinping "one belt, one way" that offers to the countries new prospects of mutually advantageous partnership.
In general, since the beginning of the year, the production of dairy products in the region amounted to 4%, meat - 8%, eggs - 36%.
The purpose of the seminar is to study in depth the economic problems facing the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, discuss and exchange views on socio-economic issues and development issues in general.
The meeting was attended by Minister of Education and Education of Kazakhstan aslan Sarinzhipov, Secretary General of the Turkic Council Ramil Hasanov, Deputy Minister of Education of Azerbaijan Firudin Gurbanov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister of Justice Bekboev, Minister of Education of Turkey.
In addition, the head of state noted that during the talks, issues of cooperation in the oil and gas, metallurgical, mining, infrastructure, banking, food and electricity sectors were discussed.
Also, the participants of the event got acquainted with the financing conditions as part of the program to support Kazakhstan's exports, developed by a subsidiary of Baiterek Holding - Development Bank of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - kdb).
Only the industrial development and industrial safety committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan can issue a license
acting as a military observer, he, along with representatives of more than 30 countries, served in the African country for exactly a year.
- Inter-parliamentary relations between the two countries fully satisfy me.
70.8 million tenge was allocated for the construction of the trunk sewerage system of the 14th microdistrict of Araya, water supply, gas supply and connection of telephone wires. 70.8 million tenge has been allocated for the construction of the main sewerage , water - and gas supply , telephone system of residential complex " arai . "
It should be noted that currently in 8 military towns, including military units 44803, 30217, 32363, work is underway to overhaul the asphalt concrete surface.
So, in the nomination "best industrial goods": with a diploma of the 1st degree of the Kyzylorda Small Tonnage Oil Refinery LLP; with a diploma of the II degree of the LLP "Peace - 2001"; with a diploma of the III degree of LLP "Shielitasongtyk"
in five years we have risen to 48 positions, that is, 5. 5 years ago , we were on the 48th place , now we are up by 5 points .
the complex is combined into a single architectural ensemble: the monument "Baidibek bi," the square "Nauryz," the regional museum of history and local lore, the center of customs and traditions, the hippodrome.
retail turnover amounted to 414.6 billion tenge.
this is a very important price, because we have one interest in the development of transit transport projects in the region, and China's active participation in them is equally important for Beijing and Kazakhstan, "the expert said.
Astana expo-2017 "and general contractors held a number of meetings with commodity producers of Pavlodar, South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Karaganda regions.
we, on behalf of the head of state, are actively negotiating visa facilitation for citizens of our country traveling to the EU. on behalf of the head of state we conduct active negotiations with the european union on visa facilitation for the citizens of our country who go to the eu .
Our region is distinguished by high-quality production of goods. our region is characterized by the quality of its products .
thanks to a dynamic economy, we have made great strides in education, science and culture.
Georgia, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan are competitors in world trade.
these bills were developed in accordance with the 99th step of the "Plan of the Nation of the Head of State for the Implementation of Five Institutional Reforms - 100 Concrete Steps" and the Nұr Otan Party Anti-Corruption Program for 2015-2025.
During the meeting with the head of the Irish state, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan emphasized the importance of strengthening and expanding relations between the two countries, including through the legal bases of bilateral relations.
they will be attended by all deputy commanders of the branches of troops and troops, military units, individual battalions for educational and socio-legal work and officers for ideological work and special agitation.
the parties exchanged views on cooperation in the framework of the meeting (anshq) on interaction and confidence-building measures in Asia, discussed the initiative of Kazakhstan to create a new international organization based on anshka.
Of these, 693 thousand schoolchildren were visited by 2,241 labor detachments, 306 labor and recreation camps, 11,447 landscaping brigades, 564 school forestries, as well as 4,884 repair and construction brigades, "Imangaliyev said.
our medicines are now registered in Russia, Armenia, Tajikistan, "said Rustembek Kusherbayev, director of business development of the kelun-kazpharm limited liability partnership for the production of infusion additives.
all work is carried out in accordance with the approved schedule and is used on time allocated from the national fund, "said A. Issekeshev.
the volume of oil transportation for a separate white "kaztransoil" amounted to 36 million 703 thousand tons, which is 2% higher than the planned indicator and 3% lower than the same result for 2014 months 9.
Beijing will become the only city in the world where the summer and winter Olympic Games were held, "the head of state said.
On August 28, Kazakhstan will host an international traditional forum, which is held 10 years in a row on the eve of Constitution Day. on august 28 , kazakhstan will host the traditional international conference on the eve of the day of the constitution .
new enterprises will be built according to new standards and meet modern requirements. new companies use new standards and to meet modern needs .
He emphasized the political will of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, who actively involves women in the work of state and public administration.
Recall that the capital is hosting an international scientific and practical conference "Competitive mining and metallurgical complex competitive Kazakhstan."
From September 15 to October 15, improvement work should be carried out, "he said.
we are grateful for the help of children, "said a.vinokurov.
This is very important due to increased competition in the market. "
the system is called aparubus.
I'm 25 years old. i am 25 years old .
Following the meeting, it was decided to further develop issues for further cooperation with the Canadian company urthecast corp as part of the project to create the Kazakhstan kazsar radar spacecraft.
also during the event, Nursultan Nazarbayev was awarded a special prize in the nomination "for his contribution to the development of life."
The state program "Business Roadmap 2020" is still a key mechanism for supporting entrepreneurship.
father of the family Eduard Frantsevich - German, husband - Ukrainian, bride - Kazakh.
this year, the implementation of the first stage of the State Education Program for 2011-2020 will be completed.
this project is very important for our region in terms of the development of the region, so we will provide comprehensive support in its implementation, "the akim of the region stressed.
he praised the interreligious harmony and social stability in Kazakhstan.
groups from Kazakhstan, China and Belarus.
the decision taken by the government and the national bank was made on the basis of statements by exporters, atameken and representatives of small and medium-sized businesses.
new sectors have emerged.
Now we are monitoring. now we are going to monitor .
the institution has music and sports halls, methodological and medical offices, a psychologist, self-knowledge, Kazakh language rooms, a dining room.
young performers of Eurasia performed famous and popular works.
On the first page of the collection appeared the welcome speech of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev for first graders.
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of San Marino at a meeting with Special Envoy of the President of Kazakhstan Valentin A. Volkov reported on the state of Kazakhstan in the UN Security Council and its place of stay.
It is noted that the creation of this center in the village of specialized is a contribution of Kazakhstan and international organizations to the implementation of the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a "green economy" and to the preparations for EXPO-2017.
he called on the countries of Oceania to contribute to the exhibition in the capital and to the development of alternative energy sources.
joint implementation of projects with international financial institutions will ensure attracting extra-budgetary investments and carrying out the necessary structural reforms in the relevant sectors of the economy, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said at the opening of the conference.
our economic ties have been established at a high level. we have established the economic ties at a very high level .
King of Spain vi felipe congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday.
Addressing the issue of personnel training, the head of state in his Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy emphasized that the success of the new economic policy should be improved by personnel, "said K.Sultanov.
I am very grateful for my second participation in this event. i am very glad that the second time i participate in this festival .
Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization addresses important domestic economic issues, such as increasing labor productivity and reducing costs. participation in the wto contributes to the solution of the most important domestic economic problems of kazakhstan , the growth of labor productivity , cost savings .
the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
among the participants are deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of state bodies, statesmen and public figures of Kazakhstan, heads of diplomatic missions, judges, domestic political parties, NGOs, business communities, representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, cultural and art workers, garden leaders, as well as Azerbaijani, Bulgarian, British, German, Israel, India, Spain, Italy, Kyrgyz Republic, China, Belarus, Tajikistan, Russia, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, France, there are large scientific researchers from such Swiss states studying the problems of the development of history and statehood.
the first is financial support for domestic manufacturers, the second is service support, "said A. Arynov.
the supported projects are sent for consideration to the meeting of the regional coordinating council on uiida.
for example, cars were never produced in the country. for example , the country has never produced vehicles .
this victory came as a result of long, selfless training and useful training of the head coach of the national team of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aitzhanov, "said the athlete.
its interest rate is 6.5%, the Development Fund provided guarantees under the business support and development program for 2020 in the amount of 5.3 million tenge.
during the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat f. In an interview, the President of Kazakhstan conveyed his greetings to Nursultan Nazarbayev and spoke about the current socio-economic situation in Kazakhstan, as well as about major international initiatives of the country
I think that we will successfully understand the fuel and energy, production complex, agriculture and other sectors. i hope we will solve all the issues such as energy , industry , issues of agriculture and other sectors .
important segments of Serbia and Kazakhstan complement each other.
Speaking at the plenary discussion of the 70th anniversary session of the UN General Assembly today, President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that "Kazakhstan supports all initiatives to restore confidence in international relations and strengthen peace and security on the basis of international law."
this is a saving of 37.7 million tons of coal per year, 16.6 million tons of oil, 19.2 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year, representatives of the department explained.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ukk and Syrbar should continue coordinated work in this direction, the safety of the capital and the exhibition depends on this.
I think that until now we have moved in several opposite directions, on the one hand - a construction site, on the other - a promotion. i think we have moved somewhat in opposite directions - on the one hand there was the construction , on the other - promotion .
texts of laws are published in the press.
this is in the interests of both our republic and Ukraine, "the head of state said.
In turn, the head of the region noted that this project is of great importance both for the region and for the country as a whole.
this event once again demonstrated to the world the great possibilities of a new China. this event has demonstrated the new opportunities of china .
the state pays its homeland an average of 250-300 thousand dollars. on average , such operation costs 250-300 thousand dollars .
The solemn meeting began with a welcoming speech by Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of France to Kazakhstan Francis Etienne.
As part of Nursultan Nazarbayev's state visit to China, the following documents were signed:
the five main investor countries include the Netherlands, Switzerland, China, France, "he said.
During the meeting, they discussed preparations for the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, as well as the activities of the Ministry in the framework of the implementation of the National Action Plan "100 concrete steps."
According to him, Kazakhstan's participation in the WTO is an additional incentive to increase the country's competitiveness.
As the President of the country noted, all these measures will be financed by the state.
It is worth noting that the projects cover mainly the industries of production of construction materials, food industry, bank, oil and gas industry, mechanical engineering, metallurgy and energy.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan plans to start mass production of its stabilized remote-controlled combat modules within the framework of inter-plant cooperation between white and Zkmk Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant.
Therefore, all planned events should be held at a high level, "said the head of the region, archimedes of the muhambets.
The project started, unfortunately, the time was delayed, we planned to complete in 2015.
According to him, integration today is interested in many countries.
According to him, work to reduce administrative barriers is very important.
trade and economic dimension is the locomotive of bilateral relations. trade is the engine of the economic dimension of the bilateral relations .
The event was organized by the National Agency for Export and Investment of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan "kaznex invest" and the Chamber of Commerce and Production of Uzbekistan at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Uzbekistan.
the plant also supplies its products to Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and other countries.
Okay, n. According to Nazarbayev, today views are changing, the use of mineral resources is declining.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the forum of interregional cooperation is of particular importance for the two states in conditions of turbulence in the world economy.
We see that inflation in 2015 is in the corridor of 6-8%. we planned the inflation will be 6-8 % .
according to him, the achieved level of openness of Kazakhstan will allow the country to integrate into global economic and technological progress.
The Palace of Inspiration was built in honor of the 10th anniversary of the capital of Kazakhstan.
this forum will be devoted to the nationwide idea of ​ ​ the head of state, leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev, "eternal country."
According to the minister, Astana and Tehran are actively increasing bilateral ties in several sectors.
Representatives of the Institute of Economic Research will take part in the press conference.
Therefore, today's meeting will strengthen ties between enterprises, "the head of state said.
I congratulate all schoolchildren, students and their parents on their day of education. i congratulate all pupils , students and parents on the knowledge day .
According to the deputy, the KHA projects "a large state - a large family," a jubilee family, "" live together "will work in the direction of further strengthening Kazakhstan's identity and unity.
According to the guest, thanks to the international initiatives of President Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan contributes to stability not only within the country, but throughout the world.
today's situation is a global problem, all countries are experiencing it, "the deputy said.
inflationary targeting is a necessary measure. inflation targeting - was a necessary measure .
Thanks to the vision of N. Nazarbayev, we achieved unity in Kazakhstan, "added Mohsen Mohammadi arami.
The Committee considered the draft law "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on trade activities."
Our main goal is to preserve family and household values, "he said.
In order to consolidate forces at the world level, the head of state initiated the Green Bridge at the 66th session of the UN General Assembly.
As part of the forum, the participants will discuss the priority areas of Kazakh-Chinese economic relations, the composition and prospects of the Silk Road and Nұrly Zhol projects, as well as issues of international and regional security.
Along with Kazakhstan, it is showing high economic growth in the world and is striving to diversify its economies with the search for new markets for products. qatar and kazakhstan demonstrates high economic growth , searching for new markets .
all schools are provided with textbooks, "said the Minister of Education and Science.
The KBK included representatives of state authorities, the business community, scientific and public organizations of the EAEU member states, as well as independent experts - representatives of the national chamber of entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The Secretary of State noted that the success of the political, economic and social tasks facing the country today largely depends on the social activity of society, and the domestic garden plays an important role in its influence.
The entry of brotherly Kazakhstan into the world trade organization opens up new opportunities for the development of export-oriented business in your country. joining of fraternal kazakhstan to the wto opens up new possibilities for the development of export-oriented business in your country .
Your states, main cities, national museums are beautiful, "he said.
the topic of deputy issues was in the context of state and public problems, "said the chairman of the majilis.
our section is really legendary. our unit is really legendary .
we want to open a boarding house for children who cannot move freely. we want to open a boarding house for children with musculoskeletal system .
And we will retrain the unemployed for a specific enterprise and send them to work, "he explained.
mother's home is psychological and social assistance to women.
As part of the startup tour, the club of young entrepreneurs plans to visit Karaganda, Kyzylorda, Taraz, Tashkent, Bishkek, Dushanbe and Almaty cities.
today we exchanged views very well, atameken "all regional structures united.
these are loans for the development of various business sectors: passenger transportation, healthcare, agriculture, hospitality, food production, timber and iron, education, trade and other services.
the company is in the domestic register of producers of Samruk-kazyna holding.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also talked with entrepreneurs of the region.
expo will be replenished with investments, contribute to the development of tourism and other industries, attract new technologies to construction.
he must know how to bear this punishment.
On behalf of the head of state, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan (kdb) and the Development Enterprise Development Fund from the national fund allocated funds to support business entities working in the manufacturing industry.
everything will be accepted within the framework of the region, district, village. everything will be adopted within a district , village , region .
I am grateful that this conference is taking place in our library.
this route will run through Kazakhstan from China to the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, Europe.
production of building materials, products and structures and training of future specialists in the specialties of "space technology and technology."
both of them include the development of regional transportation communications, "said E. Karin.
these are the highest state awards of our country, "the head of state said.
the architecture, poetry and science of the Turkic peoples is an invaluable part of the cultural heritage of all mankind, the minister said.
work must be completed by December.	according to him , this work should be completed by december 2015 .	1,27
According to the minister, most of the public procurement was carried out in the first half of the year.	according to the minister , the bulk of public procurement adopted to implement in the first half .	1,27
He also assured the deputies that the quality of the new highway between the capital and temirtau meets all standards.	he also assured the deputies that the quality of the new road in the area between astana and temirtau will meet all standards .	1,27
tank biathlon alabino. "
The National Institute of Geographical Information of the Republic of Korea, the Research Institute of Human Settlements of the Republic of Korea, the "National Information Technologies" were established between the State Service of Geodesy and Cartography of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Department of Cadastre Registration and Real Estate Rights under the State Registration Service of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Land Relations, Geand Cartand State Cad.
Despite foreign economic conditions, Kazakhstan continues to increase economic growth and investor interest, "the President said.
By 2017, we plan to double the capacity. roughly until 2017 we plan to increase production capacity up to 800 thousand cubic meters in two plants .
Under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 107 projects were approved for a total of 2.5 billion tenge, 1,800 jobs were saved and 700 were opened.
in addition, this year, within the framework of the day of languages ​ ​ "Kazakhstan - a multinational state" "support of the language - a nation," know the whole other language, respecting your language "holidays, the XVII Republican Festival of Languages ​ ​ of the Peoples of Kazakhstan, a competition for language proficiency among state employees" state language - in the public service, "a lecture on the topic:" Mother tongue is a precious treasure, "quiz" Word snipper sniper "and other events.
Today's event will contribute to the development of the CIS countries and will lead to strengthening cooperation between our countries, "the head of state said.
we know that Poland is actively developing. we are informed of the dynamic development of poland .
we work every day to successfully complete the construction. every day we work to complete the construction successfully .
I will continue to work at the Kazkosmos agency.
Deputy Chairman of AK "Astana Expo-2017" was informed about the preparation of the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017" by Shormanov and First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Commissioner of "Expo-2017" rapil zhoshybayev.
Issues of participation of full-time entrepreneurs in investment projects implemented in Kazakhstan were also discussed.
Besides, and. Rau noted that this year according to the program "Nrla zhol" from national fund 6 billion tenges from which 2 billion will be directed to search and estimated and prospecting and evaluation works of solid minerals, 2.2 billion - to well-drilling of carbon raw materials are allocated.
Today, patriotic actions will be held in all regions of Kazakhstan.
eight - Serbia, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
on the one hand, an increase in the population and the rate of consumption and the depletion of natural resources, on the other hand, a shortage of food products, "he added.
In order to implement the Astana Nation Plan, a bill is being implemented to create an international financial center, "the deputy said.
Kazakhstan, located at the origins of the great silk road, will become one of the most business, transit and logistics hubs and will become a bridge between Europe and Asia, "said the Farhad Kuanganov.
Of course, not all the terms of the agreement are profitable, so we work with colleagues. of course , not all the conditions are good , but we cooperate with colleagues from the ministry of investments and development .
the film clearly and in detail reveals the historical and geopolitical role of Kazakhstan in the world.
A wide range of issues is aimed at ensuring order and security. the big set of issues is dedicated to the issues of security and the rule of law .
He noted that today this project is under discussion in the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan.
in addition, during the rally, poster competitions were held "We, Kazakh children, support safe childhood" and "Symbolism of Kazakhstan of my homeland."
it is very important that the requirements of our laws comply with the requirements of the Constitution. it is important to achieve that our laws are consistent with the constitution .
we need a true history of Kazakhstan in order to become a country, as well as patriotic education of young people, "Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized.
According to akim of the district of seisengaz Chukayev, this year very good work was carried out on the development of transport and logistics infrastructure.
The parties also agreed to develop cooperation in the development of "green technologies" on the scale of the potential of the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
The event was attended by the Kazakh delegation headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alexei Volkov.
He noted that Expo 2017 is not only an international exhibition, but also the largest investment platform attracting investments in various sectors of the country.
10-25 tenge for each sold volume of milk, "he said.
Georgian products are exported to Kazakhstan, accordingly, our country is ready to import Kazakhstani goods in Georgia, "z.pataradz said.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The Kazakhstan national team has six medals: two gold and 4 bronze.
construction of facilities continues on time. construction is on schedule .
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, created on the initiative of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, took all ethnocultural associations under its wing. the assembly of people of kazakhstan , established on the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev , keeps under its wing all ethnic and cultural associations .
in the capital we were given the opportunity to study the history and culture of Kazakhstan, "said M. Balich.
A seminar on the exchange of experience in the field of international recognition of the activities of metrology and accreditation institutions was organized as part of the project "Support for the development of infrastructure quality in Central Asian countries" together with the German Institute of Physics and Technology ptb.
Victorian wheat, oilseeds and animal husbandry.
For 8 months of 2015, the loan portfolio amounted to 1.6 trillion tenge and compared to 2014, growth amounted to 350 billion tenge.
The term of creation of the Kazakh khanate - a basis of the national idea "g_l_k ate m", - the people's deputy told.
In addition, in 2016-2018, a state order for 1350 places in 10 colleges is provided.
During the event, Deputy Chairman of the Board of kaznex invest JSC presented the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and state support for entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan.
we consider inter-simile political consultations as a mechanism of a dialogue platform and a tool for finding promising mutually beneficial areas of cooperation, "E. idrissov emphasized.
I was invited to organize an event in which the head of state of Kazakhstan and the leaders of the Turkic world took part, this is a great honor for us. it was a great honor to deliver such an event for the head of state and the leaders of the turkic world and the people of kazakhstan .
the solemn event is accompanied by a festive concert, "said the head of the TD.
Recall, on July 9, 2015, at a meeting of the Senate, we adopted two bills - the law "On Amending and Amending the Civil Procedure Code and the New Code for Improving the Process Legislation."
The holding of the general Kazakhstan forum of patriots is a continuation of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. the kazakhstan forum of patriots - one of the events within the year of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan .
in addition, the "intergazstroy" agreed on the formation of production classes in the area of ​ ​ the white and Karachay mines william hare limited.
The President of Tajikistan thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his attention to the development of bilateral relations.
the new plant is located on an area of ​ ​ 3.4 hectares in the special economic zone "Capital-New City."
our cooperation in the field of exploration of rare metals, nuclear energy, the banking sector, agriculture, transport will become important, "the head of state said.
we will create such professions as a programmer, accountant, operator of the PSC, which are in demand in our time, "the akim said.
in categories n3, o3 and o4, which are introduced from third countries (Vehicles intended for the carriage of goods with a technically permissible mass of more than 12 tons, trailers with a technically permissible mass of more than 3.5 tons, but not more than 10 tons, "trailers with a technically permissible mass of more than 10 tons") in order to solve the problems of importation of legal entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan engaged in international road transport of vehicles, "the report said.
During the meeting, the head of the kazatomprom, together with young specialists, discussed the development of the industry, became interested in the features of the education system and their promising plans.
Recall that the committee to promote south-south cooperation was created by decision of the State Council of the PRC.
Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan A.Sarinzhipov met with Olympic continuers in the capital.
the total amount of construction investments is 5.5 billion tenge.
To date, 33 contracting organizations and 64 subsidiary organizations have been involved in the projects, 27 thousand jobs have been created and more than 5 thousand units of road construction equipment are working. today , 33 contractors and 64 subcontractors are involved in all projects , 30 thousand jobs have been created and more than 5 thousand units of road-building equipment are used .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also examined the Palace of Nations and the Kazakhstan Hall in it.
In turn, this forces a review of some programs and budget expenditures, "said the Prime Minister.
State programmes have been successfully implemented in the region. there are many successfully implemented state programs .
Following the forum, an institutional agreement was signed between the Kazakh university consortium and international engineering associations ifees, enaee and the Kazakh Society of Engineering Education (kazsee).
According to the press service of the EEC, experts of the Ministry of Economy and Production of the Republic of Belarus, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Investment and Development, the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Production and Trade, the Republic of Armenia and the Kyrgyz Republic took part in the discussion.
On behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev I welcome all participants of today's conference. on behalf of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , i welcome all the participants .
in the cities of Astana, Almaty, the guards military town, as well as garlic in the Momysh, Otar and Kanalasai villages, new residential buildings are being built.
this is a sport for strong, purposeful and isolated people.
During the conversation, issues of expanding the legal framework between the two countries were also discussed.
the president criticized projects that were left without work.
a therapist, surgeon, obstetrician-gynaecologist, pediatrician, dentist and other specialized doctors had to explain laboratory and instrumental indicators (X-ray drawing, ecg, usis, laboratory examination) using a clinical task (clinical state) to obtain the highest category.
These indicators are the result of a focused, balanced state policy in the agrarian sphere, the minister said.
according to geologists, this figure may grow. geologists think that this figure can increase .
also in the Ministry of Oil and Gas of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Ministry of Roads and Urban Construction.
The heads of state discussed a number of issues of cooperation in the border areas. the heads of states discussed issues of cooperation on strengthening security at the states border .
According to the Prime Minister of Japan, today in Kazakhstan more than 20 Japanese companies work in the production sector.
I ask the President of Serbia and business representatives of this country. i am delighted to welcome the president of serbia and all the participants of the kazakh-serbian business forum .
winners of international competitions, fellows of the presidential program "Future," graduates of the music college of the kingdom of London - favorites of English, German, Swiss, Italian and Chinese spectators.
at the end, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions to the presidential administration, the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
we have great opportunities to deepen cooperation in the field of mechanical engineering, electrical production, information and communication technologies, agriculture, tourism, education, ecology.
if mediation at the international level is a tool for resolving and preventing conflicts, then in Kazakhstan it is a tool for strengthening public harmony, "said Natalia Kalashnikova, director of the Public Consent RM.
Therefore, we are confident that housing policy is fulfilling its obligations, "said the head of the city.
the main countries of origin of migrant workers are China, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Serbia and India.
The decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the provision of goods on credit is being considered, "he said.
About 400 military personnel of the 68665 military unit, as well as 50 military police, will become participants in the large-scale flash mob.
1840 prize-winners were trained under the Future program, more than 590 fellows continue their studies.
the meeting was also attended by the head of kca international huang chu and the chairman of the board of directors of the company "Symbol of Construction" f.tamin.
- Of course, the economic picture in the world is not very positive.
our important export potential continues to decline in oil prices, "N. Nazarbayev explained.
in the territories of Kazakhstan, Russia and all countries located in this direction, an insurmountable force arises for the development of production.
today the state pays great attention to the development of agriculture. today the state pays great attention to the development of agriculture .
Vice Minister of Health and Social Development will take part in the press conference.
in the naval biathlon, the crew of three domestic rocket and artillery ships Kazakhstan, Ural and Saryarka, as well as a brigade from the marine corps, will defend the country's honor.
Also capital repairs of Karabutak Highway - Komsomol - Denisovka - Ore - Kostanay will be made.
the innovation of our product is that we ourselves produce the only certified product. the innovation of our production is that we actually produce only certified products .
35.1 billion tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
we did not in vain choose the saur valley. "
Within the framework of the forum, the thematic exhibition "Expo-2017" was organized, where a video was shown about the preparation of Kazakhstan for the international exhibition.
The National Bank is the main and only body that will report what is happening in the financial world in a simple understandable language so that the population is informed, the President of Kazakhstan said.
we planted green spaces throughout the capital. we have grown forest around our capital - pride , wonder .
this is the geopolitical paradigm of our development.
The main agenda item of the event was to improve its effectiveness through the institutionalization of the forum "Central Asia - Republic of Korea."
also the leaders of peasant farms "fool-2" and "sarina" reported on their work.
Last year, this exercise was held at the Spassk training ground in the Karaganda region of Kazakhstan.
Today we discussed the issue of expanding cooperation, "N. Nazarbayev said.
partners exchanged views on important issues of cooperation in combating international organized crime, drug trafficking, extremism and terrorism.
we considered the good points and shortcomings of this program, "said K. Massimov.
for example, the dairy "danon burkit" produces products under the brand of the French company "danon."
According to him, the space menu includes kharcho soup, kumys, chicken, cheese and cakes.
During this event, the Dutch deputy corps and the attention of representatives of local gardens presented the main initiatives of the country, in particular, the candidacy of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council and for the reception of the 2022 Winter Olympics, expo 2017, an atomic project, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, as well as strategic Plans of the nation "100 concrete steps" and programs "Nұrly zhol."
The event is attended by vice ministers of education and science, culture and sports, health and social development of Kazakhstan, responsible secretaries of these ministries, heads of their committees and departments.
seven boys and girls competed with representatives of Russia, Belarus, Moldova, Georgia, Turkey, Poland, Azerbaijan.
about their entry to the border of the republic, "said O. Shaparov.
Last week, the management of Kazavtodor JSC met with representatives of the Hungarian company toll service plc.
Honorary President of the Association of Kurds of Kazakhstan N. Nodirov drew attention to the fact that under the leadership of the Head of State a capital of peace and harmony was built, which will include leaders of world and traditional religions.
It is noted that in 2015, 513 projects were implemented in the first direction of the ZhKZ 2020 program, 151 of which completed their work.
we open our doors to the whole world, first of all to Kazakhstan. " hanhui.
we complement each other.
the text of the law is published in the press.
our products are fully oriented to the domestic market, "said the CEO.
today is a special day for all Kazakhstanis. today is a special day for the whole kazakhstan - eid al-fitr .
The new changes came into force on May 17 of this year.
therefore, the "green bridge" is used at international exhibition venues both for selection for the competition and the priority brand of "green" innovations, and in first place for expo 2017 and expo 2020 in Dubai.
dear young friend! dear first grader !
this is still a temporary situation, but the course is changing. this is a temporary phenomenon , then the rate of the tenge will be changed .
According to N. Yermekbayev, international cooperation in this direction is important in Kazakhstan.
this work should be carried out taking into account world experience, "said A. Kosusbaev.
we have always built our relations on the principle of constructive cooperation, "the head of state said.
both economics and politics, if our society is strong, cohesive, "he said.
In total, the program for students is building a new 9-storey student house with a total area of ​ ​ 8071.16 sq.m., designed for 500 seats.
According to him, a feature of the program is the implementation of three parties at once.
According to him, changes are being made to the tax legislation.
observance of the fifth, democratic principle, is the introduction of one principle of voice, one participant.
for example, the development of robotics can leave billions of people without work, "said A. Iskeshev.
We hope that their implementation will give a new impetus to our countries, "the head of state said.
representatives of the two countries represent the modern "Semipalatinsk engineering" white, Ural plant "zenith" "ak," "plant for the production of transport named after s.m.k." Kazakhstani paramount engineering "" got acquainted with the products of Kazakhstani factories, such as, among other things, armored vehicles, small arms, aircraft, as well as heat-saving devices, accurate guidance lenses, night vision devices, automated control devices.
During the conversation held after the ceremony, prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Malta were discussed.
The Ambassador familiarized young Kazakhstanis with the main goals and objectives of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" within the development of the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" and explained in detail five institutional reforms of the head of state aimed at sustainable development and improvement of Kazakhstan.
The extreme level of 50 points could not pass 12,874 graduates (18.2%).
elected the first chairman of the Almaty process of Kazakhstan.
with the participation of First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, Chairman of the Presidium of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Timur Kulibayev, Minister of National Economy of Dossaev, Chairman of the Board of the Baiterek Holding Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
training is also being conducted in certain military specialties of the work of logistics and technical support, radiation, chemical and biological protection, education and ideology.
We see how this title is advancing in business, "he said.
we must know that this is primarily about competition between states and companies, "he said.
Aktobe is called "western ecotone."
thanks to the organizers of the tournament. thanks to the organizers of the tournament .
including the Enterprise Development Fund "Development," where we receive subsidization of the bank interest rate, "said I. Aapenko.
they are developing a new platform for cooperation among our peoples.
As part of the festival, an online meeting with regional libraries of Kazakhstan will be held.
As part of the meeting, Aliyev Nural told Ms. and Finnish entrepreneurs about the implementation of the concept of "smart astana," as well as about the possibility of effective participation of Finnish companies in the special economic zone "capital - a new city."
From March 16 to October 5 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3,691 rural districts in all regions of the country and visited 6,341 times.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan wished the Belarusian leader good health and success.
If the law is adopted, it will enter into force from the new year, "said Duisengaliev.
It is worth noting that the UN, UN, OSCE heads, representatives of Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, Taoism, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Shintozyme and a number of other international organizations also take part in the congress.
He noted that in the first half of 2015, 22 criminal cases, 160 civil and 608 administrative cases were considered in court.
the development of small and medium-sized businesses, which are part of the revenue side of the budget. we need to develop small and medium business , as it is one of the main sources of budget revenues .
This work is being implemented today, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said.
this applies not only to the economy, but also to the social environment, "said A. Rakhimzhanova.
Kaztransoil is a white subsidiary of Kazmunaigas, the national operator for the main oil pipeline of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We need to develop children's literature, "said the Minister of Culture and Sports during the event.
we understand this, democracy is a global path for the development of humanity, which Kazakhstan has always sought, "the head of state said.
among other speeches, the parliamentarian is expected to speak on improving the green economy in Kazakhstan.
Since this year, as part of the Green Country program, work has been underway to attract young people to build an expo town.
Eastern Kazakhstan is considered the most beautiful of the regions of the country. east kazakhstan is considered as one of the most picturesque regions of the country .
Kazakhstan intends to increase gas production. kazakhstan plans to increase gas production .
On June 21, 2013, at the opening ceremony of the theater, the head of state said: "The plant and the country that built the roads predicted the upcoming 1 year.
During the event, the Dutch deputies noted the fruitfulness of important initiatives of Kazakhstan in the international arena.
From August 1 to 15, four tank crews of the ground forces of Kazakhstan will compete for skill with tanks from Russia, China, India, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Armenia, Kuwait, Angola, Nicaragua, Serbia, Venezuela and Mongolia.
This year, exhibits of the Central State Museum of Kazakhstan in Almaty will be brought to the festival.
In case of launch of this production, premium models will be supplemented by genesis sedans, grandeur business-class sedans, santa fe crossovers, sonata front engines.
The head of state pays special attention to the stability and unity of the people. the head of state pays special attention to unity of the people of kazakhstan .
The main theme of the event is "Capacity for world-class public service."
During the meeting with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, urgent issues of bilateral relations were discussed, including the next meeting of the Kazakh-Slovenian intergovernmental commission, at which it is planned to sign important economic agreements in September this year.
The main goal and task of the new body, created on behalf of the head of state, is to consolidate state revenues in one place, as well as take the economy out of the shadows, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe signed a joint statement on deepening and expanding the strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Japan.
All bills submitted by the Parliament to the head of state have been developed. all the bills were developed and offered to the head of state by the parliament .
During the meeting, the participation of the Chinese company in the construction of Zheo-3 in Semipalatinsk was considered.
I believe that Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan are created for each other, and we set ourselves the tasks of further deepening cooperation in this direction and developing economic and business cooperation. i would say that kazakhstan and the united states made a commitment to deepen cooperation and increase economic and business interaction .
the program is aimed at implementing projects of young entrepreneurs in various sectors of the economy.
The new concept was developed with the participation of leading international consultants.
In addition, experts note the growth of commercial transportation today, "he said.
The meeting discussed the current issues of the company's activities in Kazakhstan and discussed the main directions of its participation in the further development of the oil and gas industry in the country.
the security and protection of our country is above all. protection and security of the country come first .
According to him, last year Astana-Heattransit completely completed the reconstruction and overhaul of orphan systems.
we have begun to implement deep reforms in all sectors of the economy, and we will continue to work on the industrialization of the country, nұrly the roads, "the modernization process will make the state transparent and transparent to all citizens," the president said.
Representatives of the national management holding Kazagro, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Atameken, science and agribusiness, and the non-governmental sphere took part in the round table together with parliamentarians.
In addition to the museum, within the framework of the open sky, the thousand park, the area of ​ ​ "taraz melodies" and the tower will be located on the territory of the historical cultural complex, "the speaker said.
in addition, the exhibition "Made in Kazakhstan" will be held.
I find it difficult to imagine another place to establish harmony and security around the world. i hardly can imagine a place more suitable for the promotion of peace and security .
the main competitions will be held in two cities - syzrani - helicopters, Lipetsk - aircraft.
I am sure that Kazakhstan will be able and we will occupy a worthy place among the best countries in the world.
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, noted that a lot of work is being done in the region to modernize and develop energy infrastructure.
The winners of the competition in each nomination will be awarded a diploma and financial prizes in the amount of 200,000 tenge for 1st place, 150,000 tenge for 2nd place, 3rd place - 120,000 tenge.
this is product safety, the production of traditional products.
For example, in 2016, together with the Republic of Belarus, we make a feature film about a partisan, an outstanding figure in Kazakhstan.
cadets of foreign countries studied at the school: Hungary, Afghanistan, Vietnam, Angola, Cyprus.
according to the program of the festival, the best artists of Kazakhstan, the region, Russia, Ukraine, Spain, Cuba and Latvia will perform in it.
The participants also discussed issues of cooperation in the field of health and medicine, customs, cultural heritage, etc.
Taking this opportunity, I want to congratulate the President of Kazakhstan on joining the WTO. i would like to congratulate the president of kazakhstan on the accession to the wto .
the conference discussed topical issues of cooperation and cooperation with the two countries, prospects for joint formation of a large-scale agenda of regional and international security.
The Special Representative informed the Prime Minister of Bhutan about the reasons for Kazakhstan's election to the UN Security Council, in particular, about the contribution to strengthening regional and international stability and security, including the country's active activities in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and in the field of multilateral diplomacy.
Internet users from Russia, Kazakhstan, Germany, Indonesia and India took an active part in the vote.
we consider incoming projects for compliance with national standards and technical regulations.
Following the meeting, an agreement was signed on the participation of the Kyrgyz Republic in the exhibition EXPO-2017, which will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
The National University of Defense provides officers with extensive knowledge and skills in the field of military tactics and strategy, modern military construction.
the Minister also noted the importance of the diploma of Nazarbayev University.
therefore, no one can avoid this "storm."
topical issues of this sphere were raised by senators of a.musakhans, a.b.zhizhanov.
Now the main attention is paid to the development of children's and youth biathlon in Kazakhstan, "said A. Kurgambayev.
The head of state noted the leading role of the organization in ensuring peace and security, sustainable development and cooperation among members of the international community, and also assured that our country is committed to steam targets and goals.
this is the opening of new enterprises, because other countries will enter the Kazakh market, which will increase competition.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to employment issues, especially in the field of small and medium-sized businesses.
that issue was being considered by the samruk treasury fund.
what is tourism is our history, Kazakhstani nature, traditions.
It is also planned to build Karabutak-Denisovka-ore roads - Kostanay worth 46 billion tenge.
we congratulate our friends on their accomplishment. we congratulate you on such success .
First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan - Commissioner of EXPO-2017 raped zhoshybayev will take part in the press conference.
The President of Azerbaijan also wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, happiness and success in ensuring the well-being of the people of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan was and remains a large agrarian state. kazakhstan has been and is the largest agricultural country .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of establishing cooperation, despite the distance of the two countries from each other.
During the talks, a wide range of issues of expanding bilateral cooperation in various sectors of the economy was discussed.
this is the participation of Kazakhstani companies in commercial deliveries to humanitarian operations of international organizations.
this option should be used.
most often we do apples.
The senator stressed that Kazakhstan is not a principle of international cooperation in the field of supporting and protecting human rights.
In accordance with the agreement between white and silk companies "Astana Expo-2017," the British company will become a global partner of the exhibition.
Grand Prix Tushia - the first event in Kazakhstan.
mobile groups will operate in pilot mode until the end of the year. the mobile teams will work until the end of the year in a pilot mode .
In general, 35 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan, through the kdb network, to support the export of Kazakhstani goods produced in the white manufacturing industry.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs" has a number of powers related to the development and support of entrepreneurship, the development of foreign economic activity, attracting investments.
Since the beginning of implementation of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 790 small and medium-sized businesses have been financed in the amount of 407.6 billion tenge, 13041 new jobs have been created.
such meetings are very important.
The head of the secretariat of the Shanghai International Trade Facilitation Committee (cpit), the delegation led by the Guojin panel, included representatives of the textile industry, legal, dog, transport and logistics, brokerage and exhibition companies.
Despite their childhood, they became the winners of regional, republican, and international competitions.
In the first direction of the 2020 Program (employment based on the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services), 20 social infrastructure facilities worth 437.9 million tenge were built, 199 people were employed.
The Chairman of the Spanish Government wished Nursultan Nazarbayev well-being.
I congratulate Kazakhstanis on the 17th anniversary of the capital. "
developing strategic partnership with India is one of the priority areas of our foreign policy in the Asian vector, "the head of state said.
According to the results of the competition, nominees for "Best Holiday Cake," "Sweet Masterpiece," "Welding Hans" were recognized, and valuable prizes were distributed.
Recall that this year the rules for admission to military universities of Kazakhstan have changed.
During the action, a charity event will be held "Give the child mercy!," "Rural children - gifts to school," "The family provides assistance to the family: we prepare children for school."
at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
According to the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, the international conference "Introduction of modern technologies in construction and construction" will be held in Aktobe on June 16-17 of this year, within the framework of which the XXIII annual session of the magician will be held.
According to him, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and Social Development, crisis centers are attached to established clinics.
He plans to take part in the world championship this fall.
During the meeting, issues of development of the country's space industry were considered, including the progress of the project on the construction of the Baiterek space rocket system at the Baikonur cosmodrome.
A. Tours praised the measures to continue and update the socio-economic development of the country, in particular, the actions of five institutional reforms and 100 concrete steps in the framework of the implementation of the "national plan," saying that "the stability of interethnic relations and friendship are becoming the most relevant for ecu today."
I confirm the participation of the United Kingdom in EXPO 2017.
We consider your participation in the congress very important, "the minister said.
The event was organized by the Committee on Communications, Information and Informatization of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Kazkentent.
today's round table is an international meeting of experts. roundtable - meeting of experts from different countries to discuss mediation , public consent .
According to him, the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS is closely connected with economic changes in the world.
in some industries there are questions about the quality of administration, we recorded specific companies and their problems.
In order to strengthen the trade, economic and investment partnership, concrete agreements have been reached within the framework of the Eurasian Chamber "kz-euro-pl."
at the same time, the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" was created taking into account international standards.
in Kazakhstan in recent years, a number of measures have been taken to increase the investment attractiveness of the state. as it is known , in recent years kazakhstan has implemented a number of progressive measures to improve the investment attractiveness of the country .
In addition, there are more women than men in 8 regions, in the cities of Almaty and Astana, "he said.
he also focused on the projects "Capital," "Smart Capital," "Capital expo-2017," "Modern Urban Transport" and others implemented in the city.
According to the head of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry, the international exhibition "Expo-2017" will be a good platform for the development of cooperation in the field of alternative energy and will make a significant contribution to the fruitful holding of the exhibition.
Today, according to the state database of legal entities, 42,142 commercial and 3,656 non-profit persons work in the capital, the total number is 45,798, "the report says.
I want to note that cooperation between our countries is carried out on the basis of long-term prospects.
During the meeting, the issues of improving the system of supply of medicines to Kazakhstan, medical equipment from Egypt, exchange of experience between Kazakh and Egyptian specialists were considered.
in my opinion, this is our strength and guarantee of the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
Construction work will be considered in the second half of next year, "he said.
This conference is held within the framework of the joint project of Buudb and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Sustainable cities for low-income development in Kazakhstan."
tankers, military pilots and sailors will compete in the competitions "tank biathlon," "air darts" and "Caspian Sea" (sea biathlon) in total more than 200 servicemen of three types of troops of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
As part of the forum a. Daulbaev held meetings with the attorneys general of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Brazil, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Majrast, Kyrgyzstan, China, Mongolia, Russia, Serbia, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, Czech Republic, Iran, Cuba, South Africa, as well as with the phk leadership.
among them is the Ural "algorithm," "Karaganda" saryarka, "Almaty" boiler house named after k.i.
eggs fell by 25.1%, raw milk - by 8.3%, honey - by 0.2%, and sheep wool rose in price by 7.2%.
we implement joint projects, often exchange experience, get concrete results.
More than 50 electronic services are now available for users of the mobile government and their number will reach 100 in 2016, "says the head of the Mobile Government project, Gulmira Isabekova.
For the period from June 2014 to September 2015, 202 facilities were subject to privatization.
Following the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev instructed the akimats of the regions, the capital and Almaty to ensure the planned volume of housing commissioning at the expense of state funds in 2015, to timely compile a list of waiting lists for the distribution of built and purchased apartments, as well as accelerate the involvement of the necessary engineering and communication infrastructure in housing construction.
in addition, the top management of the Singapore corporation is invited to take part in the road show "Investment Opportunities of Kazakhstan," which is scheduled for September 18 this year in Singapore.
I think that all Turkic-speaking states will take an active part in this event, "the President said.
If last year 15 thousand bicycles were sold, then only in the summer of this year 12 thousand were sold.
The parties also discussed the construction of regional trade, economic and interregional transport infrastructure, including the Kazakhstan division in the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor.
this is due to an increase in the cost of cars, "said B. Zhamishev.
The plan announced by the head of state covers all aspects of our socialism, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
but there is Kazakhstan's readiness for crisis phenomena, cooperation with leading economic partners such as China and Russia is expanding.
According to the Belarusian president, former Armenian Prime Minister Tigran Sargsyan chairs the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
we know that Kazakhstan intends to develop nuclear energy. as we know , kazakhstan plans to develop nuclear energy .
8.6 thousand jobs were created at these enterprises.
In the development of winter sports of carinthia, experienced companies, including the company "bellutti planen klagenfurt gmbhc," participate in the preparation of the 2017 Winter Universiade in Almaty.
fourth, it provides for the possibility of attracting subsoil users to finance projects of the Park of Innovative Technologies cluster fund and the Astana business campus scientific park at Nazarbayev University.
today it is a developed plant, "said Erball Zhumagaliyev, general director of Capital Polymer LLP.
Government and large companies of Kazakhstan discuss participation in the upcoming exhibition in Kazakhstan.
In the near future, the national company samsung electronics plans to sign a memorandum of partnership.
Of course, this requires not only financial costs, but also time, "said the head of the region.
To this end, the country's infrastructure development plan "Nұrly zhol" is being implemented, "K. Zhakupov noted.
10 projects are planned this year for 16.3 billion tenge with the creation of more than 610 jobs.
our committee concludes memoranda with all organizations. the committee signed memoranda with all organizations .
we represent, form a women's personnel fund for political bodies and public organizations, "he said.
agreements have been concluded with hewlett packard, db schenker, toyota, fesco, bravis companies in order to recruit transit container trains through the Altynkola station and process products in Khorgos-Vostochny Gate JSC.
At the end of July 2015, the volume of deposits of residents in deposit organizations amounted to 11802.9 billion tenge.
we continue to gain experience in all productions.
we have the best oil and gas companies.
The practice of dastarkhan-6 includes all types of cuisine of the Kazakh national cuisine.
The organizers are the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region, the regional assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, the Governor's Office of the Toleby region, the state national natural park, the public council for the development of sports and ecological tourism and environmental education under the Governor's office of the region.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev gave a strong report on Kazakhstan's participation in non-permanent members of the Security Council. president nursultan nazarbayev has addressed a forceful speech in support of the kazakhstan 's candidacy for non-permanent members of the security council .
we ensured the unity of the multinational people in Kazakhstan.
we are among the 50 competitive countries to attract international business. we occupy 50th place on the index of competitiveness and the creation of conditions to attract international business .
happy childhood and competitions for drawing on asphalt on the topic "my homeland is Kazakhstan."
in our country there are special advantages for investors.
for me, this is always the most difficult performance. for me , this performance is one of the most difficult .
Nұrly sting. "
for the first time this conference will be held in Kazakhstan, as a whole in the CIS. for the first time this conference is held in cis country - kazakhstan .
This year military personnel of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan take part in competitions.
It is noted that the next discussion will be held in the capital from August 12 to 15.
According to the air capital, transit passenger traffic from China to Kazakhstan over the past 3 years has increased by 81% and amounted to 70 thousand passengers.
This is an example of cooperation of scientific, technical and cultural progress, "said B. Mazhagulov.
According to the Vice Minister, Kazakhstan is working on this issue.
The theme of the exhibition today is relevant not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the whole world.
the rating agency takes into account the "inherent" ties from the reserve state.
For five months of this year, 153 thousand people were employed, of which 52% or 80 thousand were employed for permanent work, 73 thousand people were sent to temporary work in enterprises, social jobs, youth practice and community service, "he said.
According to him, thanks to the international exhibition Kazakhstan acquires international experience.
The press conference will be attended by the deputy chairman of the white board "kaznex invest" major majors and the director of the representative office "kaznex invest" in Almaty.
applicants include Kyrgyz, Uzbek, Azerbaijani, Belarusian, Slovenian, Abkhaz, Kazakh, UK, Sweden, Spain, South Korea, Thai and Chinese startup groups.
and the extreme score did not score 538 graduates (2014 476).
- Kazakhstan's accession to WTO is very important.
at the same time, parents, teachers, akimats, all interested parties should make every effort to receive orders to domestic clothing companies.
at the same time, a change in a political worker should not lead to a change in the responsible secretary, "said A. the assistant.
talents of contestants will be evaluated by famous artists, professors, world famous artists from China, Germany, Israel, Italy, Belarus, Russia and Kazakhstan.
Thus, according to the head of the National Bank, the implementation of the new financial policy will contribute to the implementation of the strategic economic tasks set by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
on payment for issues to the environment there is a decrease of KZT292.4 million, and on excise taxes - by KZT979.0 million.
During the week, representatives of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Japan, China, Brazil, Turkey, southern Africa, the Czech Republic, Great Britain, Canada, Portugal will exchange views on issues of national traditional culture and art. during the week , representatives from kazakhstan , the usa , russia , japan , china , brazil , turkey , south africa , czech republic , great britain , canada , portugal and other countries will exchange views on the study of national traditional culture and arts .
pkf continent co ltd "is included in the industrialization map and receives subsidies under the program" Business Roadmap. "
This service is implemented as part of the implementation of the state program for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan "e-government."
Currently, 3280 rental apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 200.9 thousand square meters are being built, "the minister said.
The meeting also discussed issues of effective integration of Kazakhstan and the fight against extremism, as well as the international order of export control, cooperation in the field of border protection and the development of transport infrastructure.
As the Minister noted, the preparation of the bill applied the best international experience and principles of social justice.
In the first direction of the program it is planned to implement 33 projects worth 650.1 million tenge.
Also, the director of JSC "National Energy Company" Light of Energy "saken Meirbek reported on the construction of a cascade of hydroelectric power stations on the Karatal River.
It is very pleasant that the second meeting is taking place on Kazakh soil, "the doctor said.
Korean companies are already participating in the construction of EXPO-2017. korean companies are involved in the construction .
we are the first distributor representative of the global zoji brand in Kazakhstan, "here we began assembling clothing products.
In the first half of 2015, participants of the Unified Business Development and Support Program "Business Roadmap 2020" paid taxes in the amount of 46.2 billion tenge.
You should carry out monitoring, in general coordination and operational activities will be dealt with by b.sagintayev, on social issues b.saparbayev.
The head of state thanked whether Ketsyan for his contribution to the development of Kazakh-Chinese relations and emphasized the importance of the visit of the Prime Minister of the State Council of China in December last year.
education and qualified youth are the future of the country. an educated and skilled youth is the future of our country .
now construction work has begun, the necessary communications have been carried out.
the report contains concrete proposals in the civil, political, social, labor, economic, housing, cultural spheres, taking into account the plan of the nation submitted by the President of Kazakhstan. "
Within the framework of the visit, Zhoshybayev met with Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic Erlan Abildaev, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry - Commissioner of the National Section of Kyrgyzstan expo-2017 Marat Sharshekeev and Director of Gazpromneft Asia.
this is selection and selection of personnel for service, professional development, education and discipline, career development.
The President of Kazakhstan and the Prime Minister of Japan visited the educational buildings and got acquainted with the prospects for the development of the university.
Deputy Akim also supplies ceramic slab to the Asian Ceramics enterprise.
The construction of the atshabar residential complex, which has been under construction for many years, was carried out by the Kazakhstan Mortgage Company mortgage organization.
During the meeting with British Deputy Foreign Minister T. Elwood, issues of bilateral strategic partnership and visa facilitation were discussed.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, representatives of major international organizations such as the European Society of Radiologists, the European Society of Cardioradiologists, as well as representatives of the national medical associations of radiologists of Russia, Tatarstan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine and Azerbaijan took part in the forum.
As reported, 6 memoranda were signed on the basis of the logo "Made in Kazakhstan."
including ethics, purpose, competitiveness, partnership, analytics, organization, communication, quality orientation, "said Doctor of Psychology.
The President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the activities of the film studio, its new projects and the process of filmmaking.
through the implementation of the program "Launch of new facilities, development of small and medium-sized businesses, employment roadmap - 2020" created 10.7 thousand new jobs, of which more than 5 thousand are permanent jobs, "S. Kulagin said.
Within its framework, 1,320 servicemen serving in the capital, Alma-Ata, growth, Semipalatinsk, Taldykorgan, Kyzylorda, Karaganda, Taraz, Shymkent, Pavlodar, Kostanay, Zharkent, Temirtau and Batuz cities, as well as in Guards, Sarynmysk, Selynmysk, Bymysk,.
what is low carbon development?
preliminary work has been carried out.
the capital should become a city of mass sports. astana should become the city of the mass sports .
my family and I decided to try our garden at the national competition "Mereili Recesses."
this is a very long process and requires great efforts from the authorities, civil, expert societies and tanks, "the expert noted.
this experience is used several times.
the importance of water resources in Kazakhstan. the eu attaches importance to water resources in kazakhstan .
The update covers the entire level of education. the update will affect all levels of education .
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Kazakhstan's chairmanship of the CIS Council is completed. kazakhstan has completed its chairmanship in the cis .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that infrastructure and transport and logistics activities will be developed as a priority for our republic, which is a large land-locked state on the planet.
Despite the difficult economic situation, we allocate all the necessary funds for the preparation of the exhibition.
In the livestock industry, such programs as the "golden suspension" are financed - for the development of sheep breeding, as part of increasing the export potential of the "sypag," "kulan" - for the development of horse breeding, "A. Mukhamadieva recalled.
in my opinion, this period is over. i think this period came to its end .
Rector of Nazarbayev University - Japanese. rector of nazarbayev university is japanese shigeo katsu .
it determines the future of the state.
the performance was staged by a professor at the European Academy of Ballet, a laureate of the international competitions of ballet masters of the Ottoman wakil (Austria).
to fulfil all social obligations to the population.
The President of JSC "National Company" International Sea Port of Rehabilitation "Mikhail Yalbachev spoke about the implementation of the project to expand the rehabilitation seaport in the northern direction online.
the ocean in the entertainment center is the first and only object in the CIS.
meetings of working groups are held daily, "said the chairman of the majilis.
The Chairman of the Senate drew the attention of the interlocutor to the proposals of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev from the rostrum of the General Assembly.
In addition, the head of state noted that the "Nұrly zhol" program is associated with the initiative to create the Silk Road economic belt, which is an effective transcontinental logistics project for Kazakhstan.
Revenues of taxes and other mandatory payments amounted to 105.5 billion tenge, and expenses - 97.6 billion tenge, "- said O.Kernyavsk.
the first object is a 9-story dormitory with 450 seats, a student house built as part of the state program "Student Housing."
According to him, in the fall a preliminary platform of open government will be created.
It was attended by the national teams of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, consisting of 52 athletes in the following sports (basketball, boxing, judo, athletics, parachuting, swimming, taekwondo, triathlon).
n. According to Ushakov, Riga could become an important transit zone for Kazakhstan and Europe, especially for the Scandinavian countries.
state support was provided to the enterprise in attracting engineering infrastructure in the amount of 3.1 billion tenge.
He also told the head of state that he cooperates with universities of Kazakhstan on a number of joint innovative projects, the presentation of which will be held at the international exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital.
talented dancers-artists depicting the main characters: an anel of Rustem (secret pine), a dreamer of orases (young poetess of cheese), a DJ (narsha, son-in-law of pine), a gauhar usina (grandmother of pine).
we have accumulated extensive experience over the years of collaboration. we have gained considerable experience over the years of working together .
he also invited Turkish investors to participate in major investment projects in the country.
The volume of industrial investments amounted to 118.2 billion tenge or 111.6% compared to the corresponding period of the previous year.
The annual international festival of circus art "Echo of Asia," which is the only one in central Asia, will last from July 1 to 8.
The first session was attended by representatives of more than 10 companies engaged in light industry from Astana, Kostanay, Karaganda, Almaty, Pavlodar, Zhezkazgan, Semey, Shymkent, Abay.
In addition, Kazakhstan is excellent in attracting foreign investments to the CIS countries.
The event was attended by representatives of railway administrations of Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Latvia and Uzbekistan.
He emphasized that the successful chairmanship of Kazakhstan in ecu and landing organizations, the holding of the Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital testifies to the growth of the personal authority of the republic and the president in the international community.
It is worth noting that as part of the implementation of the state program "cultural heritage," historical documents were found in the archives and scientific institutions of Hungary, Egypt, Iran, China, Poland, Greece, Russia, Turkey, Uzbekistan, France, Spain, as well as in the personal foundations of authoritative public figures of the country.
we welcome these steps and are ready to support you, "the head of state said.
Thus, the priority areas in the sectors will be: metallurgy, oil and gas chemistry, electric power, light and food industries, ank, mechanical engineering, information and communication technologies.
In a message to the people in 2003, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, instructed to develop a special program to form a whole system aimed at studying the rich heritage of Kazakhstan and creating a full-fledged fund for humanitarian education in the state language, uniting centuries-old ties of national literature and writing.
White Cossack Post is a national postal operator of the Republic of Kazakhstan that provides postal, financial and logistical services.
in the nomination "Best Food Product," the first place was won by Ta-poppy LLP, "silver" went to Burnenskaya Dairy Company LLC.
Note that the project "light rail" is being implemented by the Governor's Office of the capital.
As of June 19, 2015, the Development Fund approved 437 projects worth 81.9 billion tenge out of 100 billion tenge allocated through second-tier banks, of which 328 have begun financing, "the report said.
the final of the national selection will be held in the capital on September 16-17.
V. Orban notes that thanks to the dedication of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has gone a worthy way of development.
He also spoke about changes in the system of remuneration for civil servants, about the new state program for the development of healthcare of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Health" for 2016-2019 and about social security.
Kazakhstan will become the first Central Asian state to organize this exhibition.
they serve as mediators. "
The ferroplan development company has long experience in the Philippines, Vietnam, China and various eco-projects in Russia.
During the meeting, the prospects and prospects for the implementation of the investment project "Development of the Aktobe green industrial zone" were discussed.
"the best young family, prize-winner of military competitions, the best senior mentor", "the best junior commander."
The youth of Kazakhstan will be as it is, "said N.Sanay.
The Alpamys kindergarten in the city of Fort Shevchenko is designed for 140 places and built as part of the Balapan state program.
The Minister of National Economy of Hungary Mihai Varga, Hungarian Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan nurbah Rustem, Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry laid parag, co-chairman of the Kazakh-Hungarian Business Council sandor fascimon spoke at the event.
As the director noted, "nadloc" also works in such projects as teegilshevroil in the oil and gas industry.
the crisis is unfolding in all areas: raw materials, currency, and the financial market. the crisis is developed in all areas : commodity , currency , financial markets .
chorgos-east gate, "klaipeda-west gate, west-east transport corridor, development of international transport and logistics projects" new silk road. "
The state program of forced industrial and innovative development has prepared people's economic mechanisms and developed socio-economic methods for Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization.
the ceremony was attended by representatives of permanent member states of the UN Security Council, including Great Britain, China, Russia, Russia and France, as well as sponsoring countries of the project.
The event will be attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, government officials, representatives of republican and regional parks and ethnocultural associations, experts from China, Russia, baa, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Latvia, foreign journalists registered in Kazakhstan.
the delegation includes the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of the Czech Republic to the Republic of Kazakhstan Elizha Zhigov and Gateman (Governor) of the South Moravian Territory Mikhail Hasek.
As we see, work is already underway in the capital to implement this plan, "the head of state said.
In addition, we have identified long-term goals and initiatives of the kazatomprom transformation program, which are reflected in the new strategy of the company, approved by the board of directors, "said the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in a number of important industries.
All participants in space camp received certificates of excellence in many schools and universities around the world.
we hope that our country will contribute to the further development of the capital. i hope that our country will promote to further development of astana and its rapid economic growth .
in terms of our historical experience, national language and geopolitical situation, the presence of a strong leader in Kazakhstan corresponds to the strategic objectives of the country's development.
Among the participants in the exercises are military personnel of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan.
Central Asia can have all the results of a good life.
we consider Serbia as an important partner in Europe and are interested in developing cooperation in all areas. we consider serbia as an important partner in europe , and we are intended to develop relations in all directions .
It is nice to announce the beginning of exploration work within the framework of the defense project rio tinto. rio tinto " is pleased to announce that they started exploration on the project on the site korgantas .
According to him, today the volume of production of enterprises is 816 billion tenge and 9,230 jobs.
In 2015, during the UNT, 347 complaints were received from students, of which 131 or 38% were satisfied. during the time of the unt , the commission received 347 appeals , and 38 % of them were satisfied .
plans include the construction of 11 apartment buildings, including 3 houses under the Nұrly zhol program.
startup teams provide a crum system for small and medium-sized businesses almasales, software for competitive expertise of the bizmo market, a mobile platform for tapland lending, a system of operational calls fastcallmanage, a greedy game to determine the best prices for food, a family safety system "mongoose."
firstly, the representation of kaznex invest abroad provides support to domestic producers. firstly , we 've started opening of kaznex invest representative abroad to support the domestic producers locally .
in most cases, Bolashakovites work in government agencies and national companies.
According to him, when preparing this bill, all "weaknesses" were taken into account.
In order to assist Afghans in strengthening regional and global security, relations and partnership, an Istanbul conference was organized in Kazakhstan, two stages of negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program were held. istanbul conference on assistance to afghanistan was organized in kazakhstan in order to strengthen regional and global security , communication and cooperation , two rounds of talks on the iranian nuclear program were held .
In 2014, about 45 thousand high-tech operations were carried out. in 2014 , the health care centers held more than 45 000 high-tech operations .
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the Prime Minister of India for the warm welcome and noted the high level of organization of the visit.
By the end of 2015, the international competition of innovations, projects and best practices, together with potential green bridge partners, plans to hold the competition "Energy of the Future for a Stable Planet." Rakhimbekova.
In this regard, it is very important to ensure peace, and this is the political value of each state, "K. Zhakpov said.
the total estimated cost of the project is 172.488 million tenge.
thirdly, within the framework of industrialization, if we ensure a fair state apparatus and the fairness of the law, the economy and business will develop on these two bases, "the head of state said.
industrial production amounted to 468.6 billion tenge, fc - 94.5%.
I have good conditions, adaptation, and I am starting to implement the scientific space program of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said A. Ayymbetov.
location of corporate r & d centers, high-tech facilities, start-ups of small and medium-sized businesses; the creation of an innovative ecosystem.
According to the deputy akim of the region dauren adilbekov, 4.5 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the program "Employment Road Map 2020."
According to the representative of the posco e & c division in the countries of Central Asia and Russia, Lee do Hong, they have enough experience and resources in these works.
According to the bank, Kazakhstan will take a number of important measures in the field of energy efficiency. kazakhstan takes important steps towards energy intensity .
We think that this forum will be the beginning of new initiatives and projects. i am confident that the forum has confirmed its commitment and openness to new initiatives and projects .
of which 9 are republican property, 79 are communal property, 56 are akku and 41 are holdings.
largely due to your wise and constructive policy, the Republic of Kazakhstan has achieved significant success in creating a state, socio-economic development and strengthening the country's authority in the international arena, the telegram says.
we are waiting for a bill on permits and applications. we expect the law on permits and notifications .
for example, the course includes subjects of fire, tactical, combat, technical and physical training, combined arms regulations, and the basis of military law.
and support it, "the President of Kazakhstan added.
last year, with the support of the Development Fund, we acquired automatic devices for filling liquid and sunflower products.
The head of state thanked the President of Finland for participating in the upcoming meeting of leaders of world and traditional religions.
the implementation of this socially significant project with the support of the state, the white holding Kaztransgaz and Baiterek will create a high-quality infrastructure for the transition of the region from environmentally friendly and cheap Kazakhstan fields to natural gas, "said Ibulla Serdiev, Director General of Kaztransgaz Region JSC.
as part of the activities of an individual charity fund, the Teaching program was launched in one of the capital's orphanages.
Thus, the investment project "replacing the nomenclature of bearing production" Epk-Moscow "" smz "" white "and is included in the industrialization map of Akmola region.
the project provides for the elimination of barriers, the lifting of wells, the provision of new road clothing, the report said.
constitutional, legislative, regulatory framework and social, economic, cultural conditions in Kazakhstan have become a single whole that allows all citizens of the country to develop.
we need to jointly develop proposals on the areas of development, increasing competitiveness, reducing cost, "said the chairman of the board of National Agency for the Development of Local Content Nadloc JSC during the event.
Blagoyar meat opticecombinate cotton chicken Blagodarnensky (Russian Federation, Stavropol Territory, Blagodarn), broiler chicks producing the jaw "Mironov poultry farm" (Ukraine, Cherkasy region, Kanevsky district, stepanets village) , broiler chicken and broiler chicken produced by Nagaybak Poultry Complex LLP (Russian Federation, Chelyabinsk region, Nagaybak district), broiler carcasses "horoshee delo" manufactured by Yubileynoye LLP (Russian Federation, Republic of Mordovia, Chamzinsky district, Chamzinka village), "the report said.
for example, a project of the international Turkic channel that would expand our information space.
It is expected that in the future investment projects totaling 81.67 billion tenge will be implemented with the creation of 6 thousand new jobs.
The event was attended by the city leadership, the rector of the University "Giresun," representatives of the political and academic environment of the region, diplomats of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Turkey.
Under the program "Nұrly zhol" about 1 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund for the construction of educational facilities in Aktobe.
Applications were accepted from July 20 to September 20, 2015 inclusive.
Czech entrepreneurs presented the production and economic potential of the Zlin region for the Foreign Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On June 10-11, the head of state will take part in the congress "Dialogue of religious leaders and political figures for peace and development"
The business forum ended with the signing of a memorandum of cooperation between kaznex invest JSC in the field of attracting investments, technology transfer and export, the Avriya-Kazakhstani community and Pavlodar region and the Avriya-Kazakhstani community.
Kazakhstan international logistics company in Lianyungan processed 150 thousand containers in 14 months.
The aktau open fest 2015 festival is held under the motto of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
First of all, representatives of the Republic of Belarus were interested in the issues of the financial mechanism for the implementation of the state social order in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, it should be noted that the upcoming exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital will be devoted to the theme "energy of the future."
The central steam development program and grant support for the international coco-cola fund were initiated by the Coalition for the Support of the Green Economy and the Development of g-Global and the Belaya Bota Public Foundation.
Among the major projects, according to the chairman of the committee, work is underway on the oil and gas and oil refining industry.
According to the National Company of Kazakhstan, during the conversation the parties discussed the participation of the largest international financial organization in investment projects of Kazakhstan.
we came to Kazakhstan and established that any service company should be a legal entity of Kazakhstan, that is, they should be corporate with us, work in conditions equal to Kazakh legal entities in taxation and procurement - this is a tough requirement, "he said.
We plan to support 555 projects by 2020, and by the end of 2015 we will support 20 projects. we plan to support 555 projects by 2020 , and 20 projects by the end of the year .
The congratulation of the Chairman of the Board Rusnano a. chubais states that the efforts, courage and dedication of the head of state contribute to the prosperity of Kazakhstan.
He noted that during this time 5.5 thousand jobs were created.
It is encouraging that today the plant continues the tradition of dynamic development, modernizing production and increasing its contribution to the economy of the republic, "the telegram says.
I consider it advisable to consider the possibility of coordinating joint measures to improve the investment and financial climate within the framework of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Eurasian Development Bank and the Brix Development Bank, the President of Kazakhstan said.
According to him, as part of the cooperation between eao and shu, the project "economic belt of the silk road" was successfully implemented.
I think that during the congress relations with young people will be considered. i think during the congress , we will focus on youth .
economic cooperation is facilitated by the Kazakhstan-Hungary Business Council and the interdepartmental working group on industry and innovation.
The meeting will be attended by representatives of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, Shintoism, Taoism, Hinduism and representatives of international organizations, the clergy of Kazakhstan.
in addition, military education plays an important role in the interaction between the two countries.
in the ethno-memorial complex "Map of Kazakhstan" Atameken "a round table" Respect Symbols "will be held.
The President of Ukraine, in turn, thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation to visit Kazakhstan, noting that many political, economic, cultural, humanitarian and social ties have been established between the two countries.
In Kazakhstan, as part of the first five-year industrialization plan, more than 25 of the world's largest investors who began their work in the field of processing production plan to reinvest more than 15 projects in order to expand and open new industries such as taota, coca-cola and other companies, "the minister said.
we have begun large-scale work to attract as many companies as possible, "said A. Sekeshev.
The junior specialist of the military administration is assigned to serve in military units and units in different regions of Kazakhstan.
Now we are working with the companies "bi group" and "basis-a," and we are negotiating with the company "mabetex," said Oleg Kruk, CEO of Kazenergokabel.
we strictly monitor the schedule of their shipment and the timely supply of bread to consumers, "said Mikhail Yalbachev, President of National Company International Commercial Seaport Rehabilitation JSC.
The UN Secretary General, President of Tajikistan enamel rahmon, Prime Ministers of Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Angola, Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia, international experts take part in its work.
It is noted that the upcoming meeting will discuss international and regional issues of member states in the field of politics, economics and cultural and humanitarian sphere.
the highest indicators are observed in the following regions: in South Kazakhstan region - 4 thousand 321 thousand people, Kyzylorda region - 3 thousand 57 people, Kostanay region - 2 thousand people.
We need free, talented youth, "said the head of the department.
According to him, today a council of mothers of disabled people has been created.
Following the meeting of the national company Astana Expo-2017, the capital and Almaty akimats, law enforcement agencies were instructed to strengthen the protection of the expo and universiade facilities under construction, ensure the functioning of the photo and video recording system, equip the perimeters with inspection equipment and special engineering and technical security equipment.
This year the green country "worked not only on gardening, improvement, but also on subjects of the program" Nrla zhol ".
The volume of purchases in the engineering industry for 8 months amounted to 166 billion tenge, the volume of Kazakh content in them amounted to 31%. for eight months the volume of purchases has amounted to 166 billion tenge , the percentage of kazakhstan 's content has amounted to 31 % .
astana opera, "but this is my third visit to Kazakhstan, I really love this country!
Most importantly, this year economic growth has improved significantly, "the Governor of the region said.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs noted that Kazakhstan pays great attention to cooperation with ISIS.
As the President of the EBRD noted, the country's enterprises should improve relations with international markets and create infrastructure.
Participation in the forum was approved by the vice chairman of the ihs, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for the book "Prey" Daniel Ergin, chairman of the general secretary, director of the permanent energy initiative for all, "said A. Magauov.
for wide public discussion, these works will be published in the nearest issues of the newspapers Sovereign Kazakhstan and Kazakhstanskaya Pravda.
d. of. expressed firm confidence in the success of modern Kazakhstan and the implementation of the goals set by Nursultan Nazarbayev.
R. wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, happiness and longevity, and the friendly and fraternal Kazakh people - well-being.
we associate our fate with children, "he added.
yesterday I visited the construction site and made sure that this project was completed on schedule and even ahead of schedule, "he added.
I want to note that the company is actively working in Kazakhstan and has great potential to participate in the development of the country's economy.
The theme of the international special exhibition "Energy of the Future Expo 2017" covers two important issues, clean energy and a sustainable climate.
The conference will be attended by heads of Armenian, Georgian, Belarusian, Russian, German, Finnish, Kyrgyz, Tajik, Turkish, Estonian countries and representatives of professional ministries.
The Khorgos-east gate is one of the largest infrastructure projects under the program of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol," announced by the head of state.
technical equipment of the armed forces, other troops and military formations and the development of the military-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
long-term preferential lending of large investment projects through the development bank of Kazakhstan (kdb) is carried out on the basis of the following conditions: the amount of actual remuneration - 6% per annum, the term of lending - 10 years, the grace period for repayment of principal debt - 24 months, the limit amounts per borrower - from 200 million tenge to 5 billion tenge.
this year will exceed the record number of participating countries.
healthy Kazakhstan "modern hospitals are being built in many settlements of the region.
The conclusion provides for computer science, physics and chemistry lessons in English in high school, "he said.
At the ceremony, the head of the Serbian state noted that in Serbian political and business circles, stable positive views were formed on Kazakhstan as a dynamically developing country, becoming one of the exemplary countries in the Central Asian region in the areas of tolerance, promotion of security and stability under the leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
our crew started and confidently went the distance from the first minutes. our crew has started and from the first minutes surely went on a distance .
thus, the level of service hotel services of the only Kazakhstani sanatorium located in the Caucasian mineral water zone corresponds to the level of 4 stars according to the system of classification of hotels and other accommodation facilities adopted in the Russian Federation.
for the contribution to the strengthening of spiritual peace and harmony, I propose to appoint a prize and an honorary badge, "said N. Nazarbayev.
trends taking place in the global economy, against the background of deep integration of our country, due to the fact that there are international trade ties, push us to develop new excitement and ways to develop the domestic economy, including the engineering industry, "said M. Myrzagaliev.
among the festive events is the international scientific conference "Development of the Kazakh Khanate: events, personalities," the presentation of the book-album of the professor. "Khan Moly: A Long Way to the Truth," "ifa-2015. tourism. travel. sport "XII regional exhibition of tourism, the event" village of masters "and the opening of the monument to the melubatyr.
The event was attended by vice presidents for business development Sergey bedzyuk and lopez alfonso barreiro, director for business development in Russia and the CIS Mikhail Kornienko, as well as the leadership of Kazakhstan Space Visit.
We will develop and submit a project to the government.
the economic zone is effectively located in the direction of China, East Asia, the CIS countries, as well as Europe, the Persian Gulf and other regions.
From August 3 to 12, Kazakhstan hosts an international visit program, in which the Director General of the Kazakh Scientific Research Institute of Culture Andrei Khazbulatov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Askar Tajiev, as well as employees of the National Museum of Kazakhstan take part.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to fruitful negotiations with the Prime Minister of Great Britain, as a result of which the parties found mutual understanding in all areas, including economic and political issues.
heads of state bodies reported on the implementation of the law "On Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy," the implementation of privatization and legalization programs, the "best way," the second five-year plan of industrialization, the development of public-private partnership, attracting investments, the transformation of the samruk-kazyna fund, as well as monitoring food prices and support for weak segments of the population.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, membership in the WTO opens up new opportunities for us. as n. nazarbayev stressed , wto membership opens up new horizons for our economy .
The President of Kazakhstan congratulated the leadership, professors, university staff, the names of graduates.
our goal is to prepare as much as possible for the World Cup in the country.
Preparations for Asia were at a high level. preparations for the asia cup were held at a high level .
all international courts study each other's experiences.
we got acquainted with the state program of healthcare development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2020. we got acquainted with the project of the new state programme for the development of health in 2016-2020 .
we are genuinely worried about you. we are sincerely worried about our brotherly country .
the cadet training program consists of two years.
three concepts have been developed this year.
all this is done so that our companies can compete with foreign companies, "said the Minister of Economic Integration.
The meeting is attended by representatives of Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Buddhism, Shintoism, Taoism, Hinduism and representatives of international organizations, spiritual representatives of Kazakhstan.
Here, representatives of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, France and Turkey discussed the prospects for military-technical integration and the mutual supply of modern weapons, military and special equipment, the development of the Kazakh military-industrial complex and military science.
Over the years of cooperation, German businesses have invested about $3.1 billion in Kazakhstan. over the years of cooperation the german business community invested in kazakhstan about $ 3.1 billion .
proof is applied to the bright surface of the video on high-quality gold and silver coins.
the meeting discussed important issues of respect for the rule of law, security and stability in the region within the framework of the Shu and CIS.
Expo shirts are distinguished by such inscriptions as "Kazakhstan is the birthplace of the apple," "Kazakhstan is the apple."
state symbols of Kazakhstan are a symbol of the state identity of the country. as the state institutions improve the system of management in the context of globalization , the state symbols are becoming more important .
During the meeting, a constructive exchange of views was held on topical issues of developing interstate relations, promoting a tolerant society, multi-ethnic and multi-religious values, and social and humanitarian cooperation.
at the same time, the main areas of cooperation will be trade in agricultural products, crop production, animal husbandry, intellectual property, sanitary and phytosanitary measures. promising areas of cooperation : trade in agricultural products , crops , livestock , intellectual property , sanitary and phytosanitary measures .
over the past 3 years alone, the company has invested 2.7 billion tenge in the development of the region.
further promotion in the public service will take place on the basis of competitive selection, "he said.
During the meeting, farmers noted that all organizational work was decided: through the "production corporation" they were given loans for the purchase of grain, 100% were provided.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country is participating in the realization of the economic potential of the new silk road.
this train provides for the registration of cars following the routes Pavlodar-adler, Karaganda-adler and Kostanay-adler.
I urge all investors to contribute to the development of the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan, I am sure that this will be beneficial for all of us, "the president said.
today it is our third participation in this exhibition. today is our third participation in this exhibition .
According to him, religion is an important part of the scientific and technological process.
we prove that the Kazakh language needs to be learned in a very simple way, with love, "said the project participant.
According to him, two capacities in innovation policy are outlined for this plan.
cost of the new poultry farm 73, 9 million tenge.
moreover, we now have a future program.
In June of this year alone, the state treasury received more than 800 million tenge of taxes for violation of traffic rules, about 64 million tenge for state duty, 35.5 million tenge of taxes.
Today, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a historical event. today the national museum of kazakhstan holds a truly epoch-making historical event .
then our state will correspond to our name "eternal country," said A. Mukhamediuli.
German Federal Chancellor wished Nursultan Nazarbayev well-being, good health and success.
in this economic reform we see the role played by Japan.
business development. "
According to the press service, representatives of National Company Kazavtodor JSC met with representatives of the Russian state company Russian Roads, as well as the road structure of the Orenburg Region and the Republic of Bashkortostan.
Recall, on April 7, 2013, the gas purification system of the first converter was launched, on November 24, 2014, converter No. 2 was launched.
out of four articles of the constitutional law on elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we export 15% of products to Russia, 5-10% to Kyrgyzstan, "said the head of the company.
Two years later, we united the youth of our country and organized them as a republican action, the purpose of which was to demonstrate the sights of our country, "said Oleg Shmal, president of the wheels brothers mc motorcycle club.
Special attention was paid to the issues of ensuring international security, maintaining human strength, energy problems, food and water security and climate change as a candidate for non-permanent members of the Security Council of Kazakhstan in 2017-2018.
Today, the European Union is our main trade and investment partner.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state and prospects for the further development of Kazakh-Costa Rican cooperation in bilateral and multilateral formats, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
As of July 1, 2015, 38,346 foreign citizens work in the country.
Thank you for your attention to agricultural development, "beet producers write.
Since October 1 of this year, Kazakhstan has been studying for 6 months, abroad - 6 months. this year we are going to implement such program : during 6 months , students will be trained in kazakhstan , and 6 months more abroad .
Today, talented natives of Russia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Moldova, Mongolia, China, Uzbekistan and other countries confirmed their participation.
In general, as the Minister noted, the economy of Kazakhstan this year is developing in the face of a slowdown in the world economy and demand for basic commodities.
the development of allied and good-neighbourly relations with Kazakhstan is an undisputed priority for the Kyrgyz Republic.
The draft rules were developed in accordance with the documents of the International Conference (ich) and the European Medical Agency (ema) on the harmonization of technical requirements related to the registration of medicines, the report said.
According to him, the simplified method of exploration will contribute to the development of the market of small young companies in Kazakhstan.
this species is the birthplace of the surface of the Zhambyl region. this tournament - the largest sports event of zhambyl region .
Recall that Kazakhstan is implementing a program aimed at the development of physical culture and sports, approved by the head of state.
regional akims should control these issues, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the agreement provides that the holding is considering the possibility of financing the production of psa peugeot citroèn cars in full cycle mode at the facilities of Saryarkaavtroprom in Kazakhstan.
The incidence of tuberculosis, oncological diseases, cardiovascular diseases is also reduced. saparbayev.
In his speech, the Ambassador noted that the development of infrastructure is the core of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "bright path."
This competition is to show the fruits of this work, which is important for society and the state, "said the head of the Kenzhebayev family.
The conceptual issues of the activities that will be included in this project are being discussed. now we discuss the conceptual issues of list of activities to be included in the plan of the project .
The exhibition was attended by representatives of China, Japan, South Korea, Kazakhstan, Singapore, European and other countries, as well as more than 200 logistics and shipping companies in Hong Kong.
The European Union is pleased to share its experience with Kazakhstan. i would like to say that the european union is happy to share its experience with kazakhstan .
non-food products predominate in the retail structure (64.7% of the total retail volume).
On behalf of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Lena Toivakka, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland expressed interest in expanding cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of five Peltokos of education.
During the working trip, the deputies got acquainted with the new plan of the Karagaili microdistrict, visited the "Nazarbayev intellectual" school under construction.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the agreements reached earlier with Tsinghua Corporation are of dynamic importance for our country.
up to this spring, 2437 apartments were issued in the capital, Almaty, Shymkent, Kokshetau, Semey, Kostanay. "
It is worth noting that the second stage of the qualifying round of the AG Technation acceleration program, organized by the National Agency for Technological Development together with the farm accelerator happy, started in Almaty.
A year later, the President of Kazakhstan, in his message to the people, proposed the "Nұrly zhol" program, which is a priority for the development of the transport and logistics direction.
According to Beisengaliyev, within the framework of idmb, samruk-kazyna implements 11 projects totaling $24.1 billion, which is 73% of the total investment of all projects of the country in the republican industrialization map.
Despite the difficult period for the country, the state continues to train a qualified personnel who has mastered new knowledge, technologies, experience and is competitive on the world stage.
we are ready to continue our further cooperation with juvenile courts in Kazakhstan, "said Yuri oksamite.
in different years, he held the posts of Deputy Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Informatization and Communications, White Managing Director of Kazakhtelecom.
it produces railway rails in the amount of 200 thousand tons per year, 30 thousand tons of beams per year, a special profile, etc.
if we strengthen the institution of the family, there will be no problems in another area, "he said.
The bill was developed on the basis of instructions from the head of state given at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party and the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The priority in including Kazakhstan among the competitive and actively developing countries of the world is the development of human capital. all priorities on ensuring of the advancement of kazakhstan into the most competitive and dynamic countries of the world are related to human development .
42.1 billion tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
The head of state set tasks for the government, parliament and society that require new changes in his speech at the inauguration. during the inaugural speech the head of state put entirely new challenges before the government , the parliament , and the society that require a fundamental change , fundamental restructuring of work .
winter is cold and long, so you can pay more attention to winter sports, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In the same year, gymnasium No. 48 received this respect.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on what is happening in Syria, darkness, Yemen, and discussed the international and regional agenda.
The meeting was also attended by representatives of the diplomatic corps and the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of chambers of commerce of the British and British Councils, heads of departments of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this award was awarded to the President of Kazakhstan "for his personal contribution to the world economy, outstanding historically important initiatives and achievements in integration processes, contribution to the development of the Eurasian Economic Union, strengthening economic, scientific, cultural ties between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation and active social activities."
in addition, military education plays an important role in the interaction between the two countries.
good conditions for animal husbandry are created in our area. our region has good conditions for the development of animal husbandry .
we are now facing important changes. "
all these projects are aimed not only at the development of the commodity sector of Kazakhstan, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
embumunaigas (emg) produced 1,385 thousand tons (56 thousand barrels per day), which is slightly less than the same period in 2014.
Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia have established open and trusting relations in all sectors of bilateral cooperation, "said the Minister of Commerce and Industry of the Kingdom.
During the conversation, representatives of the two countries announced the mutual development of cooperation in the field of art, culture and sports.
the fourth reform is one nation of the future, "the implementation of which is envisaged in the direction of" uniformity and unity. "
the connection between the glaciers will be established inside the country, outside it, "said Mr. Ahmediyars.
The meeting was attended by Minister of Health and Social Development T. Duissenova, heads of structural divisions of the presidential administration and central state bodies, research institutes of Kazakhstan, as well as experts from non-governmental organizations.
Kazakhstan assumes responsibility for providing 10 industries, including 116 industries, telecommunications, insurance, banking, transport, tourism, trade and others, "Zh. Aitzhanov said.
the driving force of business-economic development, the main initiator of innovation. business is the driving force of economic development , the main guide of innovation .
The aim of the project is to reduce the number of orphans in Kazakhstan. the aim of the project is reduction of the number of orphans in kazakhstan .
It is worth noting that the leadership of Astana Expo 2017 met with the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea cho engchon.
through open dialogue and outreach, we are implementing measures aimed at increasing the tax culture and increasing tax collection, "he said.
Following the meeting, it was decided to hold a series of negotiations on cooperation with the ktze - khorgos gateway dry port.
The American company centrus energy corp is the main supplier of fuel to industrial nuclear power plants.
At the beginning of the year, the company plans to build social housing under the state program.
To date, the construction of the May roads has been completed, the reconstruction of the Mangistau street lighting network has been carried out.
our work will be directed at this.
The Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan is 20 years old. the association of business women of kazakhstan has reached its 20th year .
Following the meeting, a memorandum of partnership was signed with the association of leading tour operators of the country "Astana Expo-2017" and Spain "turespaāa," the report said.
attitude to the Constitution is the people of Kazakhstan, with whom we are united by a historical fate... ".
and the theme of the Milan exhibition is very important - the fight against hunger in the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the fact that today Kazakhstani companies participate in almost all areas of our economy.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted regional and international organizations that are important for the interaction of the two countries, including Anshk, Shu and pair, within the framework of these organizations, both countries hold the same views.
It is worth noting that the international doctrine of irreconcilable brotherhood-2015 will be held from September 30 to October 4 on the territory of the Republic of Armenia.
legislative acts of the Head of State on new "agricultural cooperatives" "on amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of agricultural cooperatives aimed at bringing them into line with the law"; The head of state is aimed at implementing the national plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms in terms of optimizing social assistance to the population by strengthening its targeted nature "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on social protection of the population" the head of state signed a constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amendments and additions to the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
In this regard, international investment banks and companies called for establishing a fair market real assessment of privatization facilities, "said N. Ulbatyrov.
According to the Secretary of State, "the strategy is a stage in the creation of the organization."
I congratulate all Astana citizens, all Kazakhstanis on Capital Day.
37.5 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan supports the idea of updating the strategy of partnership and cooperation, we want it to be revised. kazakhstan supports the idea to update the strategy of partnership and cooperation , we welcome it to the revision .
The current event will feature three continents - Europe, Asia and Africa. " horns.
Gulshara Abdykalikova congratulated the ambassador on Spain's election to the non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2015-2016 and thanked the Spanish side for its assistance in the campaign to promote Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018.
This year it is planned to conduct a trade mission of domestic producers "kaznex invest" in Russia, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Iran.
deputies considered issues of Kazakhstanis. "
therefore, we are always ready to support you, "said the head of state.
There is also no limit to the hospitality of the Kazakh people, "the ambassador said.
Recall that in Kazakhstan a single national testing took place from June 2 to 8, 2015.
According to z. myrkhalykov, this year 400 applicants for 180 places were passed, 3 people were chosen for 1 place.
rheinmetall is engaged in mechanical engineering, the production of military equipment, design for cars.
now we are signing an agreement with sumitomo mitsui banking corporation in the amount of $37.3 million, "he said.
The organizers were the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the Kazakhstan international exhibition company iteca.
the fourth priority is structural reforms and economic diversification. the priority - structural reforms and economic diversification .
The King of Jordan noted that his country supports the foreign policy activities of Kazakhstan, the cooperation of the two countries within the framework of international organizations, as well as the fact that the capital makes an even greater contribution to strengthening international and regional security.
additional facilities include a hall, a cinema, a library, a swimming pool, a sauna, a gym, a solarium, a storage room, a service room and retail kiosks.
According to him, buyers can be international and local companies and individuals.
Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that Kazakhstan assisted Afghanistan if possible, especially through the sending of humanitarian aid, the construction of schools, hospitals and roads.
the postal operator of the united Arab emirates - emirates post and Cossack post "decided to jointly issue postage stamps for the heads of two white friendly states - President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev and President of the united Arab emirates Sheikh Caliph and Zayed Al Nahayan," the statement said.
we are citizens of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan's multinational and multinational character also raises questions. "
Samruk-kazyna Invest Limited Liability Partnership implements the project together with the British company ug energy limited by participating in the burnoye solar - 1 partnership.
in this difficult period, of course, will give confidence and justice, trust, "the head of state said.
we are discussing the technical issues of the States parties.
state symbols - symbolic insignia symbolizing the independence of the state.
We hope that the work will give results, "he said.
it is planned to bring this figure to 2020 thousand containers by 500 years.
At the same time, the coalition "green economy and development" g-global "together with the association" Kazallans "intends to create an international organization" green bridge, "whose tasks include collecting the best ideas and technologies, inventions from around the world for EXPO-2017.
as a result, the total production of nmg and emg amounted to 4,107 thousand tons (167 thousand barrels per day), which is 2% more than in the same period of 2014.
Among them are doctors, teachers, entrepreneurs, students, social workers, athletes and railway workers.
the Senate held a congress of representatives of world and traditional religions.
As reported in RK, a main goal of an action - strengthening of fundamental laws of the state, traditions of respect of the national idea "The m g_l_k Ate".
4.1 billion tenge is allocated for the construction of electricity, heat supply, water supply, sewerage and access roads from the republican budget.
a special impression. great discovery .
Kazakhstan has shown the best example of interethnic harmony, we are proud of our Fatherland, and we ourselves have achieved it. kazakhstan is a sample of successful model of interethnic consent , we are proud of our homeland and we achieved it ourselves .
in accordance with subparagraph 2) of paragraph 4 of Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan on convening a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan to convene a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 10 o'clock in July 2015 in Astana, the text of the order says.
thus, investment attractiveness will increase in the country, which in the new conditions plays an important role for economic development, "the President of Kazakhstan added.
The share of production in ccel, kgm and pki companies in the first six months of 2015 amounted to 2,015 thousand tons (83 thousand barrels per day), in pki, due to a slowdown in production rates by 10% for natural reasons, this is 3% less than in the same period of 2014, the report said.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, there is a project for the construction of two residential buildings in the Egindykol district worth 67.971 million tenge.
it is necessary to involve business communities, chambers of entrepreneurs in this work. the business community , the chamber of entrepreneurs should be involved in this process .
K. Sarybay met with the leadership of leading industrial companies interested in the rehabilitation of carinthia cooperation with Kazakhstan, who spoke about their projects and plans in Kazakhstan.
"region-system," "kokshetau-roads," "high-quality water."
It is important that all countries of Asia and Europe cooperate to protect our planet from extremism, religious fanaticism. it is important that all the countries of asia and europe cooperate to protect our planet from extremism and religious fanaticism .
companies with Japanese knowledge and experience can influence the economic sphere of Kazakhstan, "S. Akhmetov said.
During the bilateral meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of labor relations regulation and labor protection.
In this regard, these measures are important and necessary, "he said.
The total cost of the project in the East Kazakhstan region is 45.5 billion tenge.
Coordination activities were provided by the Kazakh Ombudsman in the establishment of the mechanism. "
Over the years of independence, we have published pages of joint history with the European Union, America, and the countries of the Islamic world.
the implementation of this agreement criticizes Kazakhstan for competitiveness and success as a state. progress in the implementation of this agreement experiences kazakhstan 's competitiveness and success as a nation .
this fact and statistics are known to everyone, "said Jakupov.
with these funds, institutions, roofs, water supply and sewerage systems will be repaired, "he said.
According to Kazavtodor, 90.9 billion tenge is allocated for the development of roads in Almaty region this year (of which 80.3 billion tenge - for republican, 10.6 billion tenge - for local road networks).
the share of the world 4/5 is associated with other religious groups.
This year we presented to Parliament a new document on the use of nuclear energy. this year we have introduced in parliament a new version of the law on the use of nuclear energy .
These projects will be implemented from 2015 to 2016.
this document is signed by the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Ukraine.
Therefore, we consider it necessary to improve skills, "he said.
A new application will be adopted in the new law on public service, the grounds for interrupting the training of civil servants will be used, "said a.muhamedzhanov.
all enterprises that are represented in our association are stable strong enterprises. all the companies that are represented in our association , in principle , are strong stable companies .
moreover, milk production and processing is supposed to be increased due to the development of cooperation, based on the experience of international companies.
We invite you to come to Kazakhstan and earn money with us, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that in recent years Afghanistan has gone a difficult way.
in this regard, cooperation with the BKP remains one of the priorities of our foreign policy.
India highly appreciates your continued support for strengthening relations between the two countries, the telegram says.
pork prices decreased by 5.5%, poultry meat - by 3.9%, conin - by 0.7%, lamb - by 1.6%, cattle meat - by 0.3%.
half of the projects have been introduced into the economy of the region, "said A. Makenova.
"bayan-sulu" from the Kostanay region - white, "Kostanay uncombination" white, "milkh," which will present about 100 types of products.
this project requires a reminder of the qualification in mathematics "Astana geometry."
At the meeting, the leaders of the two countries discussed innovative projects, innovations in the field of urban infrastructure.
This helped to create a university, "said the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This year we presented the company "Kazakhstan Space Visit" at the major exhibition intergeo-2015 in the city of Schutgart (Germany).
During the meeting, the President touched upon a number of topical issues of regional cooperation, noting the importance of the new format of the dialogue.
they study in Kazakh, Turkish, English and Russian, "said Z. Asanov.
At the beginning of the school year, we decided to hold parent meetings in all schools in the country.
the plan of the nation. "
these are food products, construction materials and engineering, in which you can focus on foreign markets and produce competitive products, so there is potential for promoting domestic business, "the head of state said.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, International Development Association, International Finance Corporation, Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
participants of the meeting discussed the current state of the economy and the banking sector.
these reforms are aimed at economic growth, transparency and state responsibility, good governance and the rule of law. " isekeshev.
Over the years of independence, we have published pages of joint history with the European Union, America, and the countries of the Islamic world.
This year, all events united, created a patriotic, emotional period.
operating enterprises will receive grants in the amount of up to 15 million tenge for the introduction of management and production technologies, up to 2 million tenge for the advanced training of engineering and technical personnel abroad, up to 9 million tenge for the attraction of highly qualified foreign specialists, up to 35 million tenge for the attraction of consulting, design and engineering organizations, up to 150 million tenge for the acquisition of technologies.
Currently, the kaznex invest agency is engaged in Chinese projects.
All children receiving pump-based insulin therapy are identified with quarterly glycated hemoglobin, "he said.
objects found in archaeological excavations on the lands of the Karaganda region, these records reliably reflect the historical root of the Central Asian, Eastern and Central European, Altai, Ural regions, Volga, Middle Eastern and Middle Eastern peoples, nomadic and Asian ties, "said the director of the Ulytau Museum-Reserve.
in particular, these are technoparks with growth, Karaganda, Ural, Almaty. in particular , these are technology parks , operating in ust-kamenogorsk , karaganda , uralsk and almaty .
The main responsibility for the implementation of sustainable development goals lies with national governments, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
he was awarded the gold medal "for the high quality of honey" and diplomas "the best beekeeper in the region," "the best producers," etc.
In addition, the director of the program "Children's Village of Sauce in Kazakhstan" spoke about the services of Zauresh Lvova.
we agreed to strengthen cooperation in the fields of education and science, economics, transport, shipbuilding, as well as air transport. we have agreed to strengthen cooperation in education and science , economy , transport , shipbuilding , air transport .
it is a great work, I thank the foresters, scientists who work here, spill out frontal skin, "the head of state said.
According to the Vice Minister, the tasks and new goals for the development of the industry will be adjusted.
new enterprises, new production networks, new directions of modernization and expansion of products. the main feature of the exhibition : new enterprises , new product lines , new trends in the modernization and expansion of production .
expenditures of the national budget in 2014 amounted to 7,070 billion tenge or 99.4% of the plan.
- The concept of low-carbon development - the concept of economic development, which envisages development by preventing environmental damage.
military personnel of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, China and Kazakhstan.
the total cost of the project is 52.1 billion tenge.
the runners-up will receive KZT930,000 and 558,000 respectively.
a new railway station, a ferry complex in the port of Kuryk, a new line of Borzhakty-Ersai, the second route of Almaty - Shu, the construction of Ay facilities "Horgos-Eastern Cape" are being built in the capital.
During the two-week training of lectures and practical training, representatives of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, academies of public administration, officials of the Ministries of National Economy, Investment and Development, education and science, health and social development, agriculture, as well as Atameken, the national managing holding Kazagro, leading experts of the Development Fund, the "Institute for Economic Research" of whites and others.
In turn, the heads of enterprises of Zhambyl region - LLP "Dzhambylgipps," "Azmina-marble," LLP "Zhambyl Color Production Company," "Araystroymarket-2003" told about the quality of their products, production volumes, advantages of produced products.
The total volume of agriculture amounted to 108.3 billion tenge, the volume indicator - 101.6%.
At this exhibition of weapons and military equipment Kazakhstan presented Kazakhstan Elegant Engineering LLC, which is part of the group of the white company Kazakhstan Engineering.
According to S. Ispusinova, the winning teams will represent Kazakhstan at the World Olympiad in November this year.
In this regard, the party faces a lot of work, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We agree that Kazakhstan and foreign startup teams show interest in the technation program. we are pleased kazakhstani and foreign start-up teams showed great interest in technation .
As part of the program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," large-scale construction work continues.
The agricultural industry of Kazakhstan has a higher potential, "said the Vice Minister.
part of the funds is in one of the administrative programs of the Ministry of Health and Social Development, "he said.
regional security and the global agenda will also be addressed.
I am sure that today's forum will be another serious step towards strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and Italy, the President of Kazakhstan said.
their stands "ktc" uk "and subsidiary ktzexpress, lead-east gates" you, "" whitewash sea port organizations. "
our President Nursultan Nazarbayev has signed a clear development step, we will implement entry into 30 countries by 2050. our president nursultan nazarbayev has signed 100 important steps for development , by 2050 we want to enter the top 30 most developed countries .
The total investment in this project amounted to 2.6 billion dollars.
this is horse breeding, sheep breeding, under the sypaga program, the construction of feed sites and a plant, "said Nurzhan Seisenbayev, First Deputy Chairman of the Board of Agricultural Credit Corporation JSC.
The V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is completing its work. the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions is about to be ended .
athletes of the republic and foreign countries took part in competitions.
Kazakhstan has a bright future.
Thanks to the support of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, Almaty becomes a world sports arena. thanks to the support of president nursultan nazarbayev almaty turns into a world sports center .
This year, the forum gathered everyone in the young capital of Kazakhstan.
Over the past year and a half, Kazakhstan has adopted very important legislative reforms. over the past 1,5 year , kazakhstan has taken very important legislative reforms .
According to the conference participants, it is necessary to increase international bilateral and multilateral cooperation in order to combine efforts to ensure international and regional security, implement human rights guarantees and protect the interests of society and the state.
The draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan" provides for the improvement of personnel work in the judicial system and the modernization of the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council.
This law is the core of the entire political system of Kazakhstan, "said the Chairman of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to explain the day of state symbols of Kazakhstan widely and deeply, the most important is our state unity, the second aspect is the museization of history. the day of the state symbols of kazakhstan should be interpreted widely and deeply , and most importantly - this is our state identity , the second aspect is the aspect of museumification of history .
This step of the Republic of Kazakhstan is aimed at further expanding the visa and investment climate favorable for citizens of these countries.
Besides construction, within the program "Nrla zhol" The Road Map of Employment — 2020 program will be continued.
I believe that we should include all programs and prepare a single anti-crisis plan, "said the Prime Minister.
for example, the helmet "kassym khan," the old road of the khan named "," the seven charters of "tauke khan" are distinguished by a vision in social relations.
The uiidmb programme has a number of export development objectives. spfiid program had several objectives , including the development of exports .
The work put forward for the al-Farabi Prize should have an economic and social effect on the population of Kazakhstan.
The congress of leaders of world and traditional religions should continue to be held in the capital. the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions should continue to be held in astana .
in Washington, Commissioner "Expo-2017" with a special assistant to the President of Kazakhstan with the Director of the National Security Council for Russia and Central Asia, Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State, Ambassador David Thorne, Assistant Secretary of Energy for International Cooperation Jonathan Elkane, Vice-President of the World Bank, as well as national geographical society, barley-e agency, brandsusa, a travel company, held a series of meetings with heads of green facilities councils and corporations working in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency.
then he visited the facilities related to Kazatomprom Sponsorship LLP and Trade and Transport Company LLC, the report said.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the aktau open fest festival has been held annually since 2013.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the construction and improvement of the capital will continue.
During my stay in Kazakhstan, I am surprised by the dynamics of the development of the economy and other industries. during the time i 'm in kazakhstan , i am very impressed with the dynamics of development of economic and other spheres .
my family: mom, dad and brother are military people, I have been trying to be military since childhood. my family : mother , father and older brother are the military officers , and when i was born , i always knew that i will a soldier .
During the signing ceremony, an exchange of views was held on the state and prospects of cooperation at the bilateral level, and important issues of the steam agenda for Kazakhstan and Micronesia were discussed.
Every year, more funds are allocated for the implementation of this program. every year more and more money is allocated for the implementation of this program .
We plan to negotiate with the mau airline, "he said.
Such a large-scale event will create a favorable environment for the further continuation of international cooperation and the exchange of experience, will give a new impetus to the development of information and communication technologies in social security of Kazakhstan, "summed up b.saparbayev.
Karaganda University of Economics "Kazpost," Karaganda University "Future," Karaganda State Technical University (kmtu), e.a. team "kmu" Karaganda State University named after Boketov.
According to him, we are talking about "milker" limited liability partnerships in Aktobe region, with a capacity of 60 tons of milk per day, a capacity of 100 tons of milk per day in Almaty region, a capacity of 50 tons of milk per day.
the total area of ​ ​ the green belt is 14827 hectares, including 1,150 plantations on which 9.6 million trees and 2 million seedlings were planted.
here we conduct an examination of the data and send proposals, "said A. Ergaliev.
The communal market is owned by the Mayor's Office of Astana and transferred to the management of the Social and Entrepreneurial Corporation Astana.
there was an official exchange of documents, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
Currently, the transition to a green economy is one of the priorities for the development of the country's economy.
the capital is the centre of all discoveries and transformations.
The Kazakh delegation headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Askar Musinov included representatives of the ministries of finance, culture and sports, as well as leading educational and health institutions of Kazakhstan.
During the conversation, Dmitry Medvedev congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday, wished him health, well-being and new success in his work.
The press conference will be attended by the director of the library of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of the expert center of timur shaimergens and the director of the Eurasian and Central Asian program at the center of strategic and international studies jeffrey mankoff.
the parties involved in military disputes came to a single reconciliation, held negotiations to end the violence and were called upon to make a peaceful decision, "he said.
therefore, during our personal meeting with Peter Alekseevich, we discussed all issues of our political and economic cooperation.
in particular, with the support of your bank, a large-scale infrastructure program "Nұrly zhol" is being implemented, in connection with which I want to express gratitude, "the head of state said.
A significant document was signed by the President of the Eurasian Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Suma Chakrabarti, Chairman of the Board of JSC "International Airport of the Capital" Zhumkhanov, Vice President of JSC "Қazaқstan temir zholy" Bauyrzhan Zhabarov.
All documents adopted by the head of state are aimed at strengthening the economic and political positions of Kazakhstan and improving the life of Kazakhstanis.
this is a great holiday for the people. this is a great holiday .
Under these conditions, the CIS countries present their political opportunities in uniting all forces to strengthen regional and global security, "he said.
The winner of the nomination "Best Young Scientist" will be awarded the main prize - 7.5 million tenge, for the second place of the competition - 2.5 million tenge, for the 3rd place - 1.5 million tenge.
The head of government also thanked the Bulgarian side for supporting key Kazakh initiatives, such as membership in the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 and the holding of the international exhibition expo-2017 in the capital.
We note the effectiveness of all instruments being developed in Kazakhstan.
Yes, we want to become a diplomatic hub on the border between this west and the east, in a troubled region, "the head of state said.
the authors pointed to the role of the head of state as an international figure.
The president of the Center for International Programs will take part in the press conference.
Kuwait, Mongolia, Venezuela, Angola and Nicaragua left the "tank biathlon."
President R. mugabe President of Kazakhstan N. his good wishes to the Nazarbayev and the friendly people of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan began to radiate worldwide endurance, transparency and openness. kazakhstan has begun to shed tolerance , transparency and openness to the whole world .
State Program for Industrial and Innovative Development "for the first five-year plan.
Over the past 3 years, 55 billion tenge has been allocated to finance the city budget, of which 6.9 billion tenge has been allocated for material and technical equipment.
we have issues like poverty, migration. we have issues such as poverty , migration and others , all related to the war .
Also, D. Pizapia met with the rector of Nazarbayev University.
after China are Russia (45; + 8), India (55; + 16) and Brazil (75; -18).
he also noted that the political, economic and cultural ties of the two countries are developing in a positive manner.
I think our views are similar in this regard, "the President of Kazakhstan emphasized.
The head of state always cares about the development of our region. "
According to TZhD, the spartakiad lasted 2 days in 4 sports: climbing the attack stages, relay (4 * 100), passing the 100-meter obstacle lane, fighting weaving.
It is noted that the funds from the sale are distributed as follows: in the republican budget - 860 million tenge, in the regional budgets - more than 810 million tenge, holdings - 50 778 million tenge, as well as 2 917 million tenge.
in all colonies, convicts were in barracks for 100-150 people. almost in all the columns the prisoners were kept in barracks provided for 100-150 people .
345 thousand schoolchildren attended the first class, which is 15 thousand more than last school year.
First of all, within the framework of the country program on cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Aida launched this year, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
we recently held a government meeting in a selector mode, in which all members of the government, akims of cities and single-industry cities took part. we have recently held a special session of the government in the mode selector , where all members of the government , mayors of cities and monotowns took part .
our work is aimed at the development of rural tourism, the popularization of tourism infrastructure and the region.
In response to modern tests, the State Program for the Development of Infrastructure "Nұrly Zhol" for 2015-2019 was adopted.
According to him, the result of silence in Kazakhstan is an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
If earlier the applicant came to the state body with five or more documents and waited for verification of the data to receive registration from 5 to 30 days, today it takes no more than one day to complete the registration in electronic form, and does not require any documents.
I am sure that this work will be very interesting and special in meaning.
prices in industry for the month increased by 2.8%, wholesale trade - by 0.5%, construction - by 0.3%, and agriculture - decreased by 0.4%.
according to him, this step was not easy, but you need to get used to this situation, to the market and business, to consumers.
the orchestra included sixteen performers from Switzerland, Italy, Belgium, France, Poland, Russia, Latvia, Germany, Japan, Hungary and Kazakhstan.
We will help you bring the center to the international level, "he said.
this is more than 30% of the population of Kazakhstan, which is 62 times more than in 2010, "the minister said.
First of all, we pay attention to the holding of international scientific and practical conferences.
Recall that the holding "bi-group construction" is one of the main developers of the exhibition and is engaged in the construction of three international thematic pavilions, residential buildings, a boulevard and a radial road.
at the same time, Kazakhstan and India are important partners.
the rule of law is one of the indices that assesses the level of the state.
of which 25 metallurgical enterprises, more than 27 enterprises in the field of mechanical engineering, 20 chemical industries, 12 enterprises of the construction industry. of them , there are 25 companies of steel industry , more than 27 engineering enterprises , 20 enterprises of the chemical industry , and 12 enterprises of the construction industry .
Speaking at the meeting, businessmen praised Kazakhstan's efforts to increase the investment attractiveness of the country and strengthen the legal, institutional, infrastructure framework necessary for further development.
During the meeting, N. Abykayev reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the ongoing work to further improve the national security system and counter terrorism and extremism.
we are interested in cooperation in the field of agriculture and industry, "said D. Akhmetov.
The extreme level of 50 points could not pass 3,992 graduates (20.7%).
For 8 years, I have been coming to the capital to attend a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions and other events. i have been coming to astana for eight years , to participate in the congresses of leaders of world and traditional religions and other events .
in conclusion, N. Modi wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, inexhaustible strength and success.
The Cambodian side expressed interest in the development of trade and economic cooperation with the Eurasian Economic Union and the creation of a free trade zone with the EAEU countries.
the bank of tokyo mitsubishi ufj, ltd., which is a member of the mufg group (hereinafter - btmu), has the authority of the sole coordinator in this contract.
From March 16 to August 24 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3022 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 4913 times.
According to him, in the near future, meetings of foreign ministers will be held in the capital.
accordingly, infrastructure, "he said.
the discussion was attended by members of the government and the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also spoke about the prospects for the development of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia.
The program of the forum includes a plenary session on the topic "Creating an urban agglomeration in modern conditions," sectional sessions on the topics "Development of local content," "Measures of state support for investments of the Republic of Kazakhstan," as well as an exhibition of investment projects of Aktobe region.
The head of state also signed the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Lithuanian Republic on the readmission of persons."
The volume of trade amounted to 268.3 billion tenge.
According to him, the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan is one of the main areas of the state.
In order to support and develop young entrepreneurship, the Damu Foundation, together with the Mayor's Office of Astana, developed the astana-damujasstart program.
in Central Asia, Kazakhstan has great potential and enough economic opportunities.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Indian Republic bulat sergazyul sarsenbayev was appointed to the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic.
all construction work should be completed by the fall of next year.
coordination of large projects is entrusted to the government and national holdings, coordination of small and medium-sized projects - to akimats with the support of development institutions.
The head of state noted that thanks to the congress in the capital, all parties are interested in cooperation for security and stability in the entire world community.
the memorandum provides for the completion of the construction of the residential complex "expo town."
from the very beginning we made our project a social elevator for young people. we initially positioned the project as a social lift for rural youth .
In addition, next year the project "Schoolyard" will be implemented.
Currently, Business-Zhk LLP has produced products worth 468.2 million tenge.
they came here and believed us.
tksh - expo-2015. "
the third direction is the development of science, innovation and training. the third direction is the development of science , innovation and training .
Kaztransoil's individual income for the first half of 2015 amounted to 38 billion 525.4 million tenge, which is 4.8% more than last year, "the report said.
Recall that from August 6 to 9 in Taipei (China) the prestigious international boxing tournament was held.
It is noted that the jubilee coins "20 years of the Constitution of Kazakhstan" and "2015 - year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" were made in accordance with the national plan of activities for the organization and holding of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, approved by Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated November 21, 2014 No. 1223.
In 2015, EKR implemented 12 projects to modernize heating facilities in the amount of 2 111.5 million tenge, including 2 projects with an increase of 286.8 million tenge, 10 projects in Semey by 1 824.7 million tenge.
The activity of the portal of state registration of legal entities, the registration of their branches and representative offices is posted on the "registration and business development" page of the "business" section.
Nevertheless, Kazakhstan continues to prepare for the international exhibition, the construction of new facilities within the framework of industrial policy, the creation of new jobs.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan spoke about the special mood towards our country and warm relations with Nursultan Nazarbayev.
And developing countries should produce twice as much as today, "the minister said.
This year we have an additional 8 thousand SMEs.
Germany is ready to support Kazakhstan politically, "said Mr. Hertz.
According to German participants, thanks to this project, Kazakhstan's unique cultural heritage was presented to German and European society.
therefore, there is no systematic pressure on the business here, "he assured.
During a bilateral meeting with the Minister of Trade and Investment of Great Britain, Member of the UK Parliament Francis Moda, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017, it became known that the UK will take part in the international exhibition Expo 2017 in Astana.
If we talk about foreign markets, then for our exporters joining the WTO is a priority, they can compete in the markets of other countries, "said A. Arinov.
In general, a number of issues have been resolved, "the report said.
Kazakhstan has results in the economic space.
The V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is of great importance. the value of the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions cannot be overstated .
conference participants learned about Kazakhstan's contribution to the "atomic" project and learned about the historical role of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As you know, over the years, under the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan, the leader of our party, Nursultan Nazarbayev, systemic measures to counter corruption are being implemented. as you know , all these years , systematic measures to fight corruption are taken under the leadership of president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , the leader of our party .
It is worth noting that in 2014/2015, 110 thousand 639 schoolchildren took part in republican competitions of scientific projects and subject olympiads.
Astana, Kazakhstan, Nazarbayev have become synonymous with stability and reliable development, "Z. Abuldinov said.
The XXI International Olympiad in Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry "Button-2015" was held on July 5-12 this year in the city of Yakutsk (Russia).
I think this is a great gift and what the president gave to the children. " Suhanberdiev.
We hope for you, the company's prospects depend on your competitiveness, "said Askar Zhumagaliyev.
"apecpetrotechnic" with the help of the Polytechnic Institute of Southern Alberta, the opening of a vocational training center for specialists, On the opening of a screw pump plant for the oil and gas industry together with the Canadian company kudu industries, at the offshore field on the production of sulphur processing devices in cooperation with enersul, introduction of new approaches in the field of geosafety in the Republic of Kazakhstan of condorpetroleum, Terralink spoke about the wide use of modern information technologies in the Kazakh market.
The Turkish republic will be the first state to implement this project.
On behalf of all Americans, on behalf of the entire diplomatic mission, I congratulate you on Capital Day. "
financing scheme: own funds, Cossack enterprises, bank chains and as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The parties also discussed the work of the congress of leaders of world and world religions held in the capital.
Financing of grades 1-9 is carried out from the local budget, 10-11 grades are financed from the republican budget.
its main feature is that all communication networks were carried out for the functioning of the new enterprise.
I want to make two suggestions. i would like to make two proposals to the government of kazakhstan .
I am sure that friendly relations between Pakistan and Kazakhstan will continue to be strengthened for the benefit of our peoples, the letter says.
this will contribute to the development of the entire Panfilov region and will allow Kazakhstan to become a major transport and logistics hub in central Asia, "said karl geysen, general director of ktze-khorgos gateway LLP during the opening of the first stage.
During the meeting, representatives of the defense departments of the two countries discussed important aspects of cooperation in the field of defense and security, peacemaking, military education, training of special forces, as well as strengthening peace and stability.
this made it possible to increase production and stabilize the position of economic entities, "he said.
our people are working for this purpose, "the head of state said.
All Central Asian countries support the establishment and partnership of all initiatives. the united states supports the central asian countries in order to support all partnerships that you create .
the first is to stop all military disputes, come to an agreement.
I wish you good luck in the service. "
To date, a team of experts from the consulting company mckinsey & company and the holding "Baiterek" has completed the stage of diagnostics of the participating companies of the program.
As follows from the message, sports are divided into athletics and weightlifting, golf, tennis, table tennis, badminton, bowling, equestrian, roller skating, bocce, water swimming, volleyball, basketball, judo, gymnastics.
According to the company, by the end of 2015 it is planned to put into operation 194 km of roads, including 102 km (the capital is Pavlodar - 49 km and Pavlodar - families - 53 km).
He noted that during the development of transport infrastructure, the construction of the Borzhakhty-Ersai railway route was completed.
representatives of the Kazakh national cultural center of Uzbekistan under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev discussed the socio-economic and cultural-humanitarian development of our country.
In addition, we report that from June 02, 2015, the passenger train No. 483/484 "Capital-Adler" will run.
The fleet of cars in Kazakhstan is 4.4 million units. car population of kazakhstan amounts to 4.4 million units .
It should be noted that the Majilis also approved the bill "On ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on readmission of persons."
The participants who worked on the project testify to this, "said the chairman of Zhas Otan.
3275 jobs were created in agriculture, 1297 in trade and automotive repair, 1211 in the construction industry, 99 in transport and sewerage, 13 in healthcare, 3279 in other industries, "said Askar Zholamanovich.
Kazakhstan is a reliable friend and neighbor of Russia.
We want these projects to be implemented here through the realization of their capabilities, "he said.
Answering the question about the general nature and uniqueness of the Winter Olympic Games in Kazakhstan, Karim Massimov noted that diamond is a city for winter sports 4000 meters high, surrounded by real snow mountains.
Minister of Education and Science attended the meeting. Sarinzhipov, as well as rural teachers, innovative teachers, heads of pedagogical and scientific institutions.
There is a lot of experience in this direction in Kazakhstan, "said V. Amelin.
The event was attended by President of the Republic of Tajikistan E. Rahmon, President of the Republic of Armenia S. Sargsian, President of the Republic of Belarus A. Lukashenko, President of the Kyrgyz Republic A. Aatambayev, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, Secretary General R. Borduzha, as well as heads of defense and foreign affairs departments of the member countries of the organization.
on average, we launch 15 proton missiles, by 2025 this will be 5, by 2030 we must launch a proton.
- Joint declaration of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Higher Education and Science of the French Republic.
The meeting was also attended by the leaders of the member countries of the brix organization - Russian President Vladimir Putin, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chairman of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping, President of the South African Republic Jacob Zuma and invited heads of state.
there I met the children who helped me create a new project.
commercial agreement on cooperation was signed within the framework of the visit of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev to France.
does not require special training, but training should be organized for beginners, "he said.
Kazakhstan is the only country in the world that uses the magate standard in full. kazakhstan - the only country in applied the iaea standards .
today we discussed all relevant issues raised by the head of state. we have discussed all the issues raised by the head of state in detail .
All schools of East Kazakhstan region passed the test for the new academic year.
also cotton-fiber - 25.4% (produced 18.4 thousand tons), concrete - 22.0% (612.5 thousand tons), gasoline production - 20.2% (678 thousand tons), kerosene production - 18.6% (181.8 thousand tons), fuel oil production - 22.1% (667.3 thousand tons), thermal energy - 20.0% (938 thousand gcal.) Electricity decreased by 43.6% (611 million kwm.sag).
This year, for the first time in the history of our country, we will hold an international conference "Kazakhstan Germans - a bridge between the capital and Berlin."
it will provide an effective system for the training of military-scientific, scientific and pedagogical specialists of the new formation, capable of solving issues of improving the military economy, military production, military science and the development of new technologies.
During the meeting, the sides discussed ways to expand the participation of companies in the further development of the economy of Kazakhstan and the possibility of cooperation in the direction of creating an international financial center of the capital.
The plan was approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and began to be implemented this year, "said A. Rau.
including: industry 644, construction 1,207, transport and warehousing 487, wholesale and retail trade 1,619, education 781, health 368 and other economic activities 2,248.
All issues related to the bill on social protection are the issue of optimizing targeted assistance. everything that relates to the draft law on social protection is , first of all , the issues that relate to the optimization of targeted and social assistance .
The second gathering of international participants of Expo-2017 will take place on November 18-19. november 18-19 , the second meeting of expo 2017participants will be held .
I urge all investors to carefully study the possibilities of investing in Kazakhstan, including the agricultural business. i invite all potential investors to carefully study the possibility of investing in kazakhstan , including the agricultural business .
I sincerely congratulate all graduates.
At the end of last year, these enterprises produced products worth 4.3 billion tenge.
the skill of the Kazakh team is much higher. the skills of the team of kazakhstan have significantly increased .
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the participants of large-scale institutional reforms in the state - 100 concrete steps that are a response to global and internal challenges, and at the same time, in new historical conditions, with the plan to join the nation among the 30 most developed states.
this contributes not only to strengthening friendship between our countries, but also to improving human life in our country, "the President of the Republic of Belarus continued.
During the event, a number of new projects will be launched within the framework of the industrialization map and the construction of infrastructure facilities under the Nұrly zhol program.
real dialogue is a continuation of the processes that you talk about with us, a religious dialogue that is very useful for our modern world, "he said.
the people of Rwanda survived the terrible genocide, you stopped and today you are doing a lot for the development of the republic, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Thus, the Committee of Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the Customs Department of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, began work on reconciliation of 200 dubious certificates with the databases of customs authorities on information received from the Kazakhstan Association of Conformity Assessment Bodies.
these measures are historically and important for Kazakhstanis, since these events brought together representatives of all nationalities - all peoples of Kazakhstan. this event is a significant for all kazakhstanis , because these celebrations brought all nationalities , all the people of kazakhstan together .
presidential aide e.orynbayev also attended the meeting.
on informatization, "on compulsory social health insurance," "on combating corruption," "on the production of organic products" and amendments to legislation on education.
the second stage - "athlete" - checking the physical training of military personnel.
therefore, it is necessary that the akimat, together with the republican and regional bodies, deal with this issue, constantly interact, "the head of state said.
We consider it necessary to constantly conduct exercises, including emergency inspections, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
also considered the state of bilateral relations and its prospects in the fields of investment, industry, road construction, tourism and others.
in addition, plenary sessions and panel sessions and discussions will be organized on topics such as "energy efficiency in industry," "network infrastructure."
The head of state congratulated the participants on the start of the tournament and the Day of the capital.
we have great potential for cooperation between our states.
today there are 1.5 billion Muslims in the world.
this is the right approach, "said Nurbek.
each of us should be a specialist in our own business, this is patriotism, this is an "eternal country," said A.Ambeov.
According to Andrei Baklitsky, director of the Russia and Nuclear Non-Proliferation PR Center program, the organization supports students from Kazakhstan.
therefore, the Green Bridge will be devoted to the development of a green economy through business and innovation, through a globally significant project covering all states.
7.7 thousand people were sent to youth practice.
poultry meat production is not difficult, selling it is much harder, "said Maxim Bozhko, director of capital projects ltd LLC.
"I instructed the government to support these companies and negotiate with them," the head of state said.
The special representative informed the Secretary of State of the Cambodian Foreign Ministry about Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening regional and international stability and security, including nuclear disarmament and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, as well as about the country's active activities in the field of multilateral diplomacy, the statement said.
could not come to the capital for health reasons.
This meeting was held on the eve of the visit of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to China from August 31 to September 3.
reconstruction project of the Pavlodar-Shymkent main oil pipeline b. the main oil pumping station named after Zhumagaliyev-Barsengir oil pumping station - the name is carried out to increase the pipeline capacity in the reverse direction on the site in the amount of up to 20 million tons.
91 people will study for doctoral studies by state order (there are no paid grounds) (last year - 70).
providing a share in participation in the exploration and production project at the Isatay section of Kazmunaigaz to ak and width b.v.;
Also, as the mayor of Milan noted, a meeting with smart city employees in the capital became fruitful.
relations between the two countries are strategic in nature and are in both bilateral form and in international and regional organizations (steam, ecu, anikba, organizations of Islamic cooperation, CIS, Turkic, etc.). Multilateral development.
The event is attended by the Ministers of Education and Science of the Republic of Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan and Deputy Ministers.
Despite the fact that India is a big country, you have a lot of things that we will learn, "said N. Mod.
for example, if the demand for products decreases, then they will move to another industry, "said the head of state.
President of the Kazakh National Academy of Sciences M. Zhurynov noted that the people of Kazakhstan are proud that the country's achievements have become an example for the whole world.
- you may learn about our program "nұrly Zhol."
Bekzhigitov Ruslanbek kenesbekovich was appointed head of the general security department of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this project is implemented on the basis of interaction between the foundation of culture, education and social programs. Nazarbayeva.
the importance of new economic policies.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
we will keep this matter under review.
the project is organizational, industrial.
Minister of Education and Science A. Sarinzhipov presented the draft plan for the development of the international scholarship "Future" for 2016-2020.
There are also amendments to the budget, civil and tax codes, changes to the laws "on roads," "on transport," "on rail transport," "on natural monopolies and regulatory markets" and others.
Participation in it is very important for us, because large Russian companies in the chemical industry and companies from far and near abroad are represented here, "said the commercial director of Novopek LLP.
According to international practice, the opening of this representative office will give an impetus to the development of trade by 6-7% per year, "the expert noted.
the championship was held in the capital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to special conditions for investors.
of these, 319 participants and disabled people of the Second World War, 47,613 orphans, 143,414 socially vulnerable people, employees of state services and budget organizations, 143,610 military people, 2165 citizens with emergency housing.
projects are aimed at the production of food products, the production of building materials.
Kazakhstan has a concept of a civil budget.
the second is the new law "On State Youth Policy," prepared on behalf of the head of state.
The products of the Araystroymarket-2003 became the "best product for the population," the second and third places were divided between the energy-taraz LLP and the Zhasulan-flora LLP.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also instructed to review plans for industrialization and construction of infrastructure taking into account the new economic conditions.
between countries - 6 flights per week.
therefore, I am pleased to come to this beautiful country, "he said.
We also assume that other projects will be launched within the framework of this new industry, "he said.
The extreme level of 50 points could not pass 10,349 graduates (18.4%).
Kazakhstan has always been in the spotlight of the whole world. a lot of attention is always paid to kazakhstan .
The document is aimed at attracting investment in innovative development and housing and communal services, "he said.
Our colleagues are developing the next joint work plan for 2016-2018.
Among the Czech companies interested in cooperation with Kazakhstanis is Aaela LLC, which supplies modern technologies for the production of drops.
It should be noted that the parties discussed issues of trade and economic relations and investment cooperation between the two countries.
spending on education this year amounted to 45.5 billion tenge.
at the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the prospects for the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between Kazakhstan and Japan, as well as in the field of sports.
Today, from June 4 to July 18, a qualifying round among pilots of the air force of Kazakhstan is held at the Kyzylagash and Kazakhstan aviation training grounds.
In this area, the main direction is to ensure the independence of the state apparatus. "
Today, 38,346 foreign citizens from 144 countries work in Kazakhstan (China - 32%, Turkey - 12%).	specialists from 144 countries work , including 60 % in construction ,  - he added .
I am grateful to you for everything that you are doing on the way to peace, cooperation and stability of the people I love - the people of Kazakhstan, "the congratulation says.
Another area of ​ ​ cooperation is the transport industry.
On July 12, 1971, I became a voluntary, non-refundable donor.
"Official carrier of expo-2017" has an exclusive status and is an official partner of the international exhibition "Astana expo-2017."
Speaking on international and regional issues, the American side highly appreciated the role of Kazakhstan in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
this is our contribution to the space of the "eternal country," said the project participant.
more than 77% of the total number of all participants (1767) are families living in rural areas (2014 - 16%, 209 families).
This year it is held under the motto "Accreditation: support for the provision of medical and social assistance."
Kazteh Technopark JSC named after k.i. Satpayev, the sold share is 53.66916%, the owner of the share is the "center of engineering and technology transfer," the initial price is 210 955 684 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 aek.
industrialization is the foundation of the entire economic policy of the country. industrialization - the core of the entire economic policy of our country ...
this is a great good deed for the national game.
Last year we reconstructed the railway station.
We propose to create a joint venture so that our cooperation is fruitful, "he said.
make proposals for improving the work of the government council. i instruct the government to make proposals for improving the work of the council .
In this regard, Mr. Abdykalikova noted that "we have the opportunity to train specialists in the future program."
Recall that the Australian mining company iluka resources limited is the world's largest producer of zircons and a global producer of high-quality titanium products.
more than 100 delegates from Central Asia and Afghanistan, ministries and departments of Turkmenistan, vapors, Unicef, ecu located in Central Asia; International Organization for Migration, International Committee of the Red Cross, office of the European Union in Turkmenistan.
the establishment of state symbols is a sign of recognition of our country at the world level.
Thanks to this, we have strengthened our unity and peace, continuing our path of development, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Minimum social standards differ in the areas of labour, social security, education, family, health, culture, physical education, legal assistance provided by the State.
The event was attended by more than 50 leading experts of the world in the field of politics, economics, international relations from Russia, China, Turkey, Iran, the countries of the European Union and other states.
Kazakhstan is recognized by all countries, it is pride.
Kazakhstan boasts of its achievements. kazakhstan can be proud of its achievements .
dear guests and colleagues, media expo-2015. "
without agreeing on any issues with the business, the commission does not make a single decision, "the minister said.
The event was attended by 9 teams of the capital and 6 teams of regions: Karaganda, Kostanay, Aktobe, Pavlodar, West Kazakhstan, Akmola regions.
The parties noted the fruitful cooperation of the state bodies of Kazakhstan and the regional representative office of the AKB in Central Asia.
interregional center of production subcontraction and partnership, non-profit partnership "National Partnership for Development of Subcontraction," center of international production partnership of unido in the Russian Federation, Atameken, kaznex invest JSC, Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Foreign Trade of Kazakhstan, Association of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan.
We believe that in the near future the assistance of our company in the work of the council can be very valuable. we believe that the promotion of our company , the work of the council can be very valuable in the near future .
As noted in the report, Kazpost will deposit 924 postal signs of 2 copies in the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
funds for construction were allocated from the national fund.
since most heat networks (68.5%) and boiler houses (58.5%) are worn out, Aktobe residents do not have full access to heat, 15-17% of the heat goes to the steppe.
This year, 8.6 billion tenge was allocated for the social sphere, of which 6.2 billion tenge has been spent to date.
A business is a call flow.
It is important that Kazakhstan has an agreement on cooperation with leading universities and universities, "the head of state said.
Council members discussed a number of documents aimed at deepening the economic integration of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
we are interested in wind and electricity projects. we are interested in such projects .
Kazakhstan is a vivid example of development, preservation of peace and stability, - A.Zhenbekov said.
Representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Bulgaria, Italy, Cuba, Mexico, Russia, Lithuania and other states took part in the general competition.
First Deputy Minister of Foreign Policy - Commissioner of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 Rapil Zhoshybayev visited the Kyrgyz Republic.
Kazakhstan has always been a raw material country. kazakhstan has always been a raw rich state .
Alexander, talk about the project and its prospects.
we believe in the potential and future of Kazakhstan.
we are engaged in growing, storing vegetables and fruits. we deal with fruits and vegetables production , storage , and so on .
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, the homeland begins with the family. as the president says , everything starts with the family .
for me, an eternal country is a state that governs mercy.
together they raise 36 grandchildren and 26 great-grandchildren.
According to him, the capital did not accidentally choose for the congress.
tanks presented by the Russian side to all participants are fresh. the new tanks are provided to all participants by the russian side .
Constitution Day is one of the founders, creators of the state. day of constitution - is a fundamental , one of the most important holidays in the state .
Today, 10 thousand units of construction equipment are involved in the reconstruction facilities, 21 thousand people work, the department noted.
we supply our products to Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Great Britain and Japan.
there should be many such projects. such projects should be more .
34.9 billion tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
In addition, 25 out of 66 disabled people who are participants in the ZhKZ-2020 program have been employed.
For the 1 half of 2015 year, 3882 doctors passed the assessment, of which 3017 (79%) successfully passed the exams.
the noble character of the state is an essential condition for the successful innovative and competitive development of Kazakhstan. "
According to the expert, Kazakhstan has become a single national, civilian country.
In general, according to the Prime Minister, the Government of Kazakhstan excludes unreasonable increase in prices for socially significant food and services.
Today, graduates of republican schools improve their knowledge in military educational institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, Ukraine, the Turkish Republic and Germany.
artists of the "capital opera" and the state philharmonic society of Astana are the creative team of the Turkic world of Kazakhstan.
Activities are also carried out on the joint international project "Geological structure and metallurgy of north-central Asia and adjacent territories" with the participation of 5 countries (Russia, China, Mongolia, the Republic of Korea and Kazakhstan).
this is the modernization of the apparatus of public administration, the improvement of the work of civil and legal institutions, the continuation of the industrialization of the economy.
we came up with it.
Thus, $3 of external investments will be raised for every 1 dollar invested by the fund and Rb, "he said.
This is facilitated by the agreements reached during your official visit to Kazakhstan in May this year, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
As part of the meeting, a discussion took place on the projects of the "new silk road" and the "economic path of the silk road."
we are meeting in the capital for the second time. we gather in astana for the second time , we have prepared a report about or done work .
foreign companies will begin to enter the market of Kazakhstan.
In his speech, the Secretary of the Committee on Defense and Security, International Affairs of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Victor Rogalev, spoke about the international initiatives of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in this area.
these are projects in the chemical industry, metallurgy, food industry. these projects are : chemical industry , metallurgy , and food .
Over 5 years, budget expenditures in the housing and communal services sector increased to 84.1 billion tenge (22% of the budget).
Technopark Algorithm LLP, the share of sales - 3.98%, the owner of the share - the National Agency for Technological Development is white, the initial price is 35,031,244 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 aces.
It is worth noting that the saga educational program is being implemented in the UK, Canada, Brazil, China, the Philippines, Ukraine and Russia, South Korea, Nigeria, southern Africa and now Kazakhstan.
our products are checked and meet all state requirements, we give guarantees.
we appreciate the high level of friendly relations and mutual understanding between our countries, "K.Masimov said.
not to make efforts to resolve any political disputes and not to implement them at the national and international levels. strongly reject any force in political conflicts at national and international levels .
the meeting was attended by the general manager of the mining and metallurgical complex "Tymlai" (too "tenir-logistic") terekhov Sergey Arkadevich.
we will also support programs such as the "people's ipo."
anti-aircraft Ural plant, "sm. The Kirov Machine-Building Plant, the Kazakhstan Breath, Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan factories export various ship components, torpedoes, ship hydraulics, aviation fillers, modern thermal insulation devices, sight lenses, night vision devices, "the report said.
But we are very active in this direction, not wanting to stay on the edge.
In the first half of 2015, 2 million 911 thousand 622 public services were provided, of which 687 thousand 787 - through the state center for the payment of pensions, 3 thousand 931 - through the PSC and 2 million 219 thousand 904 services through the portal of electronic government, the exchange of zhunus said.
the bill provides for amendments and additions to the laws "on the prosecutor's office," "on law enforcement service" and "on civil protection" and others.
Head of State "on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the regime of the Kazakh-Chinese state border," 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms are aimed at implementing the national plan and comprehensive regulation of the activities of agricultural cooperatives and their associations "100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms, as well as improving the activities of law enforcement agencies and the procedure for conducting law enforcement service," signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan to improve the activities of law enforcement agencies and the procedure for performing law enforcement service."
I think that we will surrender the remaining 1.5 million by the end of the year, "he said.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of instructions to the government and entrusted control over their implementation to the security council apparatus.
children's scientific and technical creativity - scientific design, modeling, layout, a universal scientific and technical project.
non-ferrous and ferrous metallurgy are two main industries for our country, "he said during the VI International Congress of Mining and Metallurgy in Astana.
In 2016, we decided to focus on opening Kazakhstani companies abroad, Kazakh representative offices "kaznex invest."
Sources seek to cover the market of Kazakhstan and CIS countries.
M. Tazhin recalled that this year, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev published a proposal to create a new high-speed, multimedia transport route "Eurasian Transcontinental Corridor."
all assets are in the account of the national bank.
we highly appreciate your intentions for open dialogue, constructive cooperation, regardless of the current political situation in the region and the world. we highly appreciate your attitude to meaningful candid dialogue and constructive cooperation , regardless of the current political situation , both in the region and around the world .
all loans are being built on time, the necessary funds have been allocated, "he said.
therefore, the study of experience and training of our units are very important for us.
I say yes.
We are glad that the expedition arrived in our city. we are pleased the expedition arrived in our town .
polyethylene pipes for water pipelines from 50 to 300 mm, from 350 to 630 mm per year 1200 tons.
there are no and will not be more congratulations for me than the new success of Kazakhstan, its capital and every region, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The meeting was attended by heads of state bodies, business communities and atameken, leading domestic experts and scientists.
we hope that our project in this direction will be effective, "said the director of the company" mjm investment so. "
I hope that we will be partners in the future and our work will be fruitful. "
The Future Association, together with the Development Foundation, in support of Baiterek Holding, announced the startup bolashak competition.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev discussed the work of the ongoing congress of leaders of world and traditional religions and considered ways to further strengthen cooperation.
The author noted that the head of state is making great efforts to strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries, maintain stability in the world and the region.
In 2016, it is planned to perform at more than 70 continental and world lienized competitions, 52 stages of the World Cup, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
compared to the same period last year, revenues increased by 1,347,6 million tenge.
issues of bilateral cooperation, including conducting joint operational-search measures, providing legal assistance, exchanging information and experience, strengthening relations between the two departments.
- Agreement on strategic partnership between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Tajikistan;
"Nr Otan" signed the memorandum of cooperation with a youth wing "Shas otan", the public associations "zhuldyz" and "Shas the lancer".
in Yesilsky district, 6 million tenge was allocated for the installation of 2 boiler houses in the central boiler house.
today is a special day for me. today is a special day for me .
this is the twelfth forum. this is the twelfth forum .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also talked with entrepreneurs of the region.
Kazakhstan's economy depends significantly on oil prices.
925 projects worth 172.8 billion tenge (119.1 billion tenge for financing new projects, 32.5 billion tenge for refinancing loans, 21.2 billion tenge for replenishing working capital) were financed to support small and medium-sized businesses from the national fund.
Today, within the framework of Strategy 2050, Kazakhstan is focused on the "green economy," said the head of the European Union mission in Kazakhstan, the aurelia ambassador at a press conference in Astana.
Due to the deterioration of the budget, lower prices for all our export products, it is very important that the national bank conduct work with high qualifications, "the President of Kazakhstan noted.
this is reflected in the history of Kazakhstan.
the representative of the South Korean corporation confirmed the company's intention to take part in the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition, "the statement said.
Last year, he received 0.15 hectares of land for the construction of a production workshop and began construction. last year , he received 0.15 hectares of land for the production and began the construction work .
During the meeting, prospects for the development of medicine in Kazakhstan were discussed, including cardiac surgery and cardiac activity.
Astana received the status of holding a specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
He noted that the volume of industrial production amounted to 613.9 billion tenge, fc - 110.8%.
Ukraine is interested in cooperation with European and Asian countries. the ukraine is interested in cooperation with the countries of europe and asia .
It is worth noting that this is not the first energy saving project that is financed through kazagrofinance.
cooperation with human rights and anti-terrorism structures of the United Nations, Ecu, the Council of Europe, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other international organizations.
According to him, Kazakhstan pays great attention to this issue at the government level.
the problem of combating crime was important for all States. these issues are relevant for all countries .
a feed mill was built for this, "he said.
Kazakhstan ranks 43rd among world exporters.
in this Hall, I would like to present the highest State award. i 'd like to award nursultan nazarbayev with this order , " the president of belarus has said .
The project implementation period is 5 years, taking into account 2019, "the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said during the presentation of the draft law timur zhaksylykov.
construction will be carried out in two stages.
construction period - 3-4 years.
development of transport and logistics infrastructure "is implemented 15 projects, in the field of roads - 11 projects, in the railway industry - 2, water and air transport - 2 projects.
I haven't been to the capital in 3 years. i was in astana three years ago .
According to him, relations between Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan are distinguished by their identity of views on international and regional issues and such threats as nuclear security and terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking.
Recall that the convention was ratified by Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Aksh, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela and other states.
I am sure that your visit is suitable for this purpose, "the head of state said.
3.3 billion tenge was allocated for the development of culture in Aktobe region, 1.7 billion tenge was spent in the first half of the year.
this document meets all international requirements.
and the Western European-Western Chinese project.
the space activity of Kazakhstan is developing significantly. space activities of kazakhstan are being developed .
for example, in Kazakhstan, within the framework of the partnership of the state and entrepreneurship, 2 national business clusters were launched.
The program is valid in all regions of Kazakhstan, it is intended for courts, state and non-state bodies.
we want to develop relations in many areas, including energy, trade and the economy, transport. we want to develop relations in many fields : energy , trade and economy , transport .
the creators of this KK museum of modern art project intend to further increase the authority of the city, which is an international tourism center.
34.9 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
35.1 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
35.3 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
37.1 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
37.5 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
37.7 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
38.3 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
38.4 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
how we implement this depends on the government, the quasi-public sector, business, "he said.
this concerns a large reserve in the development of labor productivity, expansion of agricultural production, attracting external investment in the industry, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The capital with the participation of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev is hosting an industrialization day dedicated to the "bright road" and state programs for the country's industrial and innovative development.
the state of our permanent state - thanks to the head of state and his diplomacy. "
the competition is held in the state and Russian languages.
During the meeting, issues of development of bilateral relations and strengthening of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union were touched upon.
We awarded six families, 1,2,3 places were taken by two families. Syzdykova.
Kazakh delegation was headed by Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the Board of National Managing Holding Baiterek Kuandyk Bishimbayev JSC and participants in the national champions program.
embumunaigas (emg) produced 2,104 thousand tons (57 thousand barrels per day), which is 2014 thousand tons (6 thousand barrels per day) less than in the same period of 0.2 years.
now we have begun rehearsal. we have already started rehearsals .
The V Forum of Religious Scholars of Kazakhstan began its work in the capital.
G. Abdykalikova called on the conference participants to take part in the world specialized exhibition "expo-2017," and also proposed to discuss the development of "green business" at the special panel session of the "Forum of Women Energy and Entrepreneurs" as part of the next world conference for women, which will be held in Tokyo in 2016.
The draft law "On the republican budget for 2016-2018" was developed in accordance with the budget code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of the plan for the development and socio-economic development of budget forms for 2016-2020.
meetings of the council are held twice a year.
deposits of legal entities amounted to 7415.8 billion tenge, deposits of individuals 4387.0 billion tenge.
we are the people of Kazakhstan - in this word that opens the constitution, the historical depth of generations is shown, which influenced the formation of the state, the emergence of a new just society, "he said.
Earlier Almaty Governor's Office signed memoranda with Kazkommertsbank JSC, Astana Bank JSC and Avtogaz Trade LLC.
this is a very spectacular theatrical performance. this is a grand theatrical performance .
this is the second result among the CIS countries after Azerbaijan (40th place).
During the meeting, an agreement was reached on the start of the construction of the plant in the industrial zone "South."
if in the first five-year plan they released goods worth 65.9 billion tenge, then in the first half of this year alone the volume of production exceeded 10.4 billion tenge.
next year we plan to organize international competitions.
in July of this year, the first container train was organized through the territory of the Shihezi (China) - the port of friendship - Aktau (Kazakhstan) - villages (Azerbaijan).
there are positive results of the measures taken, "Mamytbekov explained.
Kazakhstan is located in the lower reaches of the Syr Darya, silt, noisy, disputed rivers, so meetings of this format play a compensated role for us, "he said.
front-runners, processes and technologies.
In eight months, we rented 5.6 million square meters of housing, which is 79% of the plan. within 8 months this year we have commissioned 5.6 million square meters - this is 79 % of the plan .
The participation of the capital in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 will be officially confirmed by the state at the end or beginning of next year, "the minister said.
In accordance with the memorandum, the parties agreed to develop bilateral cooperation in the field of commercial and investment activities, tourism and business processes.
According to the results of 5 months, the share of housing and communal services in the second-tier bank loan market for the construction and purchase of housing reached 75% (in 2014 - 33%).
It should be noted that the company "sat nickel" is building an enterprise on a cobalt-nickel deposit in the five-Karagai region of East Kazakhstan region worth 29.9 billion tenge.
in particular, we plan to jointly publish the book "Culture of Kazakhstan," - said the representative of the Smithsonian institution.
The V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will solve new issues. the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in astana will become a new step for the solution of urgent problems .
37.5 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
Following the results of eight months of this year, sustainable development in all areas of socio-economic development of the region was ensured, "he said.
- The project was not designed to conclude contracts with construction companies.
President o.grimsson thanked the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. for efforts to maintain international security and stability.
these are pupils of military-patriotic clubs, young girls who become winners of regional and city competitions in military applied sports, as well as pupils of republican military schools of boarding schools (Almaty, Karaganda, Shymkent, families, Pavlodar, Aktobe), the republican school "zhas ulan" and the lyceum "lion," students of military departments in higher educational institutions.
As noted by the Vice-Minister, the protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of all nationalities meets international requirements and can serve as an example for other States.
According to the head of Kazakhstan, by the end of 2015 "kegoc" plans to develop 5.8 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan announced the second wave of privatization. kazakhstan has started the second wave of privatization .
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of Kazakh-Georgian cooperation in trade, economic, transport, logistics, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
B. Amireev conveyed the message of the head of state to the Prime Minister of the Cameroonian Republic and informed about the priority areas of Kazakhstan's upcoming work as a future member of the UN Security Council, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
Sary-Arka Technopark LLP, the selling share - 84.255%, the owner of the share - "center of engineering and technology transfer," the initial price - 462 766 038 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 months.
337.5 million tenge from the budget for the construction of a kindergarten.
we are satisfied with the experience of cooperation with Kazakhstan, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev outlined Kazakhstan's position on the most pressing international issues on the agenda and ways to solve them.
As part of the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State on the implementation of 5 institutional reforms and 100 concrete steps for the further development of air transportation, the Civil Aviation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan held talks with the official delegation of the aviation authorities of the PRC.
Today's new UN meeting testifies to the fruitfulness of the long-term partnership between the government of Kazakhstan and the UN representative office. the opening of the new building of the un is the result of long , patient and fruitful cooperation between the government of kazakhstan and the un office in kazakhstan .
countries with a developed nomadic civilization take part in our festival. our festival is attended by people from countries where nomadic civilization was developed .
it was hard, but we tried hard.
deposits of the population in banks (including non-residents) in July 2015 increased by 1.4% to 4423.2 billion tenge.
As the head of state noted, this year the theme of the plenary session is the development of agribusiness in Kazakhstan.
37.5 billion tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
The document is designed to give a new impetus to mutual cooperation between the two countries in the field of veterinary science. the document is to give new impetus to the mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries in the field of veterinary medicine .
You have made a great contribution to the formation of a new stage of cooperation between Kazakhstan and China. you have made a great contribution to the formation of a new phase of cooperation between kazakhstan and china .
design bureau of mining and metallurgical equipment, the share of sales - 100%, the owner of the share - the "center of engineering and technology transfer" is white, the initial price is 688 410 084 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 meks.
As part of this inter-state visit to Beijing, we laid the foundation for a new stage of bilateral relations. within the current state visit to beijing , we 've laid the foundation for a new stage of bilateral relations .
we have a tribal apiary for which we receive subsidies from the state, "said a company representative.
During the meeting, the sides discussed ways to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the UN on the main issues, including sustainable development, strengthening the disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, ensuring regional and global security.
The work on the development of the state language is based on the approved city program for the development and functioning of the state language.
During the meeting, the Governor of the Sverdlovsk Region E. Kuyvashev thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his great contribution to the development of good-neighbourly relations between the two countries and strengthening ties between border regions.
If the situation improves earlier, then, of course, we will consider, "the president concluded.
power supply, gas, steam supply and air conditioning by 1.7%, water supply, sewage system, control over the collection and distribution of waste by 9.6%, "the report said.
automotive industry, machinery and equipment, production of metal products, food and beverages, furniture, leather, plastics, rubber, textiles, wood, paper and non-metallic mineral products.
our interests are in demand by specialists for the region or all North Kazakhstan enterprises, "he added.
the champion of Kazakhstan as a part of group on taekvondo, the bronze prize-winner of the World Cup of 2012 among the military personnel a younger serzhantka a festive zhunusova, the champion of RK and the international tournaments private Ruslan Dzhaparov, the Master of Sports, the champion of RK private Marat Abdykaliyev, the employee of CK PK - the participant of the London Olympic Games, the champion of RK Nursultan Mamayev and the Master of Sports, the champion of RK.
with the support of the Foundation of the First President of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation, the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the People's Republic of China agreed in Beijing on the organization of "Abai readings" and a photo contest "unknown Kazakhstan."
A total of 602 medical services were provided, of which 445 patients were transported, 130 consultations were issued and 27 operations were carried out.
we are opening the Academy of Green Technologies public education center.
The meeting was attended by members of parliament, representatives of the presidential administration, state bodies, members of the scientific and expert council, representatives of the garden and foreign guests.
we will put our "day" or "week" submissions on the money market.
I believe that for each manufacturing company in Kazakhstan, Expo 2017 is a clear project that allows you to prove yourself, "said Daniel Alzhanov, General Director of Alzhanov Alzhanov.
- framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the PRC on strengthening cooperation in the field of industrialization and investment;
We discussed several issues with the new chairman of the national company Expo-2017.
Recall that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adopted in 1995.
According to kaznex invest JSC, the event is expected to be attended by about 100 people from the chambers of commerce of the two countries, the largest Indian companies in the oil and gas and construction sectors, the chemical industry, pharmaceuticals, engineering, agro-industrial complex.
the program was developed jointly with other enterprises and our international academic partners. "
During discussion the questions concerning implementation of the patriotic act "M g_l_k were considered ate", the project of a kh "big family - the big state", the national project "my country" directed to strengthening of civil identity, the project of realization of the idea of society of general work and the "bright future" project.
An important feature of the exhibition kazakhstan security systems - 2015 is its effective format - exposition, business and demonstration programs and a limited combination of practical directions.
The number of graduates with 50 points of the extreme level increased by 4.5%, that is, 67,497 students (81.4%), and in 2014 there were 67,357 (76.9%).
agriculture is an important part of the Kazakh economy.
we lay the foundation for its infrastructure by building railways and roads connecting the Pacific Ocean with Europe and the near east, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The international authority and economic potential of India and Pakistan give great hope to the future of our organization, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Now we produce goods at EXPO-2017, which means that all companies operating at EXPO-2017 receive our products.
toyo invested in Kazakhstan's production of grain, carrots, potatoes, "he said.
at the end, Vladimir Putin wished Nursultan Nazarbayev health, long life, happiness, inexhaustible energy and achieving new heights for the benefit of the people of Kazakhstan.
these projects are implemented within the framework of the green economy strategy of Kazakhstan.
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to expand the scope of infrastructure construction in the region.
According to the chairman of the board, the results of the Expo will determine us new technologies for the development of the planet, leaders, inventors, laboratories, companies, weu, garden, individual activists, as well as locomotives of the regional department of technical and social innovation.
this is a new opportunity for humanity to combine its forces, scientific, technical and production cooperation. "
in their opinion, the delivery of goods to the main construction site of Kazakhstan will not only make money, but also take part in the country's national project.
Currently, about 8 thousand people work at the expo construction site, "said A. Yessimov.
expedition of the great steppe - a people's project.
According to its blog center for open data enterprise, in many countries such round tables have been held repeatedly.
today, special parts of the mishins for the production of wagons at the Tulpar-Talgo plant were delivered to the capital.
the list of visa-free entry countries included investors from Australia, Hungary, Italy, Monaco, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Malaysia, Singapore, Great Britain, Germany, Finland, France, Switzerland and Japan.
K. Tokaev invited Mexican companies to the international exhibition "Expo-2017," which will be held in the capital, "the report said.
According to the head of the regional construction department temirlan of Bektas, in 2015 the budget of the department amounted to 45.5 billion tenge.
During the exercises, senior representatives of the technical secretariat of the Thbn (Netherlands) and foreign observers from Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Georgia, Cuba, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Vietnam, Thailand and Ukraine were present as observers.
recently, the head of the holding company alageum electric presented the Ural transformer plant to Russian partners.
the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, considered the investment opportunities of the region, considered joint projects.
In addition, 1.2 billion tenge was allocated for the creation of urban infrastructure thanks to the program for the development of single-industry towns.
also as a rating of the level "kzaa +" on the national scale.
Next October, Muhammedali will take part in the "song of the year."
During the visit, B.Aytimova met with the President of Iceland, the President of the Parliament, the Director General for International Affairs and Security and.
this will allow domestic companies to purchase a new ship, "said the chairman of the committee.
in particular, the head of the foreign ministry is the President of Fiji, the Prime Minister of Fiji, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Solomon Islands, co-author, the Prime Minister of Tuvalu with a sapoag, the Prime Minister with a lure, with the President's cover, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Marshof the MarshIslands met with tony de brum and the Ambassador of East of East.
e. tasman noted that during this time Kazakhstan has achieved good success in all spheres of development and economy.
To date, 2 grants have been allocated for 2 new productions in the amount of 5 million tenge, 9 projects for 530.9 million tenge have been subsidized.
in the territory of the region there is a joint venture of cim-format LLP, which is the founder of the French company cim and the Kazakhstani format mach company LLP.
Within the framework of five institutional reforms, we are working to professionalize the state apparatus. within five institutional reforms we work on the professionalization of the state apparatus .
residential buildings are built from monolithic reinforced concrete, in accordance with existing construction standards, using modern materials of domestic composition, taking into account the stability of the building during an earthquake of magnitude 9 and higher in seismic areas.
The work of the 12th session is covered by 600 journalists.
the program includes all genres of circus art.
we live in a new economic space. we entered a new economic space - the wto .
the legislative system of our country is very large. the legal system of the country is large .
land park: historical park
work is underway with the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
In addition, he noted his readiness to take part in Expo 2017.
Today, issues of all sectors of the economy, energy, mining and metallurgical complex, forestry, housing and communal services, transport, construction and other climate changes are on the agenda, the minister said.
every year in Kazakhstan, the blood service in the 18 blood center prepares 200 thousand liters of blood and produces about 300 thousand donations, "said z.almenova
Today, the capital is a symbol of a country that united all Kazakhstanis and aroused great interest in the international arena.
The head of the region k.bozumbayev handed over to students on behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev the sign "My homeland is Kazakhstan!" He gave me a book.
As noted at the meeting, Kazakhstan and Hungary have similar methods of solving many regional and international topical issues.
how was the development of this project carried out?
this integration includes the implementation of a number of industrial projects within the framework of the "new silk road," the development of transport infrastructure entering foreign markets in the south and north-west directions.
the meeting of the CEO of the agency on development (lada) with Khalid bin Ramli (khalid bin ramli) took place.
this project is the decisive section of the state program "Kazakhstan New Silk Way" and the new economic policy "Nrla zhol in the future".
all countries and peoples want harmony and security.
According to statistics of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, the volume of attracted investments in Kazakhstan increased by 53% compared to 2005-2009, "the Minister said.
health, education and social security, as well as housing construction, "said N. Abdibekov.
- Thanks for the interview.
Askar Kushkinbayev, coordinator of the local budget initiative at the Soros-Kazakhstan Fund:
The average salary of the plant's employees is about 120-130 thousand tenge, "said A. Aldamuratov.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, the opening of customs borders will positively affect bilateral economic relations and open up new opportunities for business.
I call on all citizens of Kazakhstan, namely young people, to join the list of voluntary, irrevocable donors. i urge all capable population of kazakhstan , in particular , young people , to join the voluntary , unpaid donors .
According to the agency, for 5 months of this year, agricultural producers of the region delivered 16.4 thousand tons of dairy products, 5.1 thousand tons of meat products, 65.5 million eggs to the capital's market.
"In 2016, Karim Kokrekbaev proposed to spend the cultural days of the Zhambyl region in Grodno, and then the cultural days of the Grodno region.
Our university has a great contribution along the way, so we are proud to talk about it, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the capital is developing at a very high speed. astana is developed rapidly .
I fully understand the situation of these children. i understand these children .
I think that this school is for the city, for the residents of the capital, for the state as a whole, "the minister said.
speaking in it Major General N. With the support of Nazarbayev, within the framework of the new economic program "Nұrly zhol," the implementation of infrastructure wheels of development has begun.
Within the framework of this event, the presentation of the Kazakh application and a specialized exhibition to the UN Security Council in 2017-2018 took place.
member countries: Germany, France, Great Britain, Switzerland, Japan, China, India, Turkey, Russia, baa and others.
In the framework of creating favorable conditions for investors, work is underway to create 5 industrial zones in which 67 enterprises will operate in various sectors: the "channel" - in the microdistrict, the "taldykorgan" - in the taldykorgan, the "boroldai" - in the Ili region, the "kairat" - in the Talgar region, the "kazbek" - in the Zhambyl region.
astex-2015 within the framework of techconnect.tech conference brings together world experts of major international organizations in the field of big data and institutes emc, microsoft, sap research, center of international research and development mimos, as well as representatives of Kazakhstan assembly companies and the public sector.
Kazatomprom Uak Uak Corporation and cneic (china nuclear energy industry corporation) agreed to transport uranium products through China in bags and blood.
With these trends, our country takes care of the future of youth. "
a. Dzhaksybekov also recalled that within the framework of the implementation of 100 concrete steps proposed by the Head of State in connection with the implementation of five institutional reforms, all conditions should be created for quality education, determining scientific and creative well-being among youth in order to make the capital a business, cultural and scientific center of Eurasia.
During the two-week training of lectures and practical training, representatives of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, academies of public administration, officials of the Ministries of National Economy, Investment and Development, education and science, health and social development, agriculture, as well as Atameken, the national managing holding Kazagro, leading experts of the Development Fund, the "Institute for Economic Research" of whites and others.
in the export structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the majority were mineral products (51.2% of the total exports of the eurozone countries), chemical products (20.2%), metals and products from them (16.8%), animal and plant products, finished food products (3.8%).
international experience has been applied.
we are implementing cultural and humanitarian measures, "he said.
During the meeting, ways to strengthen cooperation in the trade, economic, coal, transport, logistics and agro-industrial complexes were discussed.
today I am here at the Echo of Asia festival.
the leader of the nation is an eternal country raised by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
financing issues will be decided at the expense of the state and kopo, "the deputy prime minister emphasized.
Kazakhstan and Brazil have friendly and partnership relations, "said Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil Hadil to Rocha Vianna.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and the russeff dilma considered issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation and prospects for its further expansion.
The top ten of the rating included the countries of New Zealand, Denmark, South Korea, Hong Kong, Great Britain, Kazakhstan, Sweden, Norway and Finland.
the artist's work is a silk girl. "
Total investments for all projects amounted to 156.5 billion tenge.
The First Deputy Prime Minister noted on the platform of agreements within the EAEU the prospects for the development of the energy, transport, pharmaceutical industries of Kazakhstan, the realization of the republic's capabilities as a "bridge" between Europe and Asia.
From May 1 to June 1 of this year, 1620 new jobs were created.
as part of mobilization groups, textbooks, ophthalmologists, surgeons, obstetricians-gynaecologists, therapists, pulmonologists, pediatricians and cardiologists.
Our company is an active participant in various government programs.	our company is an active participant in various state programs .	1,43
Serzh Sargsyan wished the Head of State good health, well-being and success in his activities.	sargsyan wished the head of state of good health , happiness and success in his future activities .	1,43
a culture of peace and harmony. "
in Mangistau region the UNT presentation took place on June 3, 5 and 7 in 4 points.
thus, we will fully fulfill the order of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the new airline, "he said.
Kazakhstan is India's largest trade and economic partner in central Asia.
At the same time, s & p assess the capitalization and income indicators of the Development Fund as "very strong."
in all places the situation is declining, "he said. Nazarbayev.
potatoes fell by 3.1%, table beets - by 0.1%, cabbage rose by 3.4%, table carrots - by 1.2%, bulb onions - by 0.2%.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for the development of all citizens.
Five subjects were recruited 100 and above 320 graduates (229 in 2014), the Governor's Office explained.
the task of the government is to create an atmosphere for you to present new ideas, and then we will help us, "the Prime Minister added.
The Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship was instructed to conduct a bill on the ratification of the loan agreement between Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
the opening of the exhibition is a year and a half away. there is one and a half year left before the start of the exhibition .
The head of the Senate of Kazakhstan spoke about the current development of the country and the plans of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to implement five institutional reforms.
According to world statistics, graduates of the enactus project will work in the field of international business, entrepreneurship and management: eighty percent will be employed in large companies, and twenty percent will open their business - said the president of enactus kazakhstan albina yerzhanova.
we will cooperate in mechanical engineering, chemical industry, energy, education and medicine. we will also cooperate in machinery , chemistry , energy , education and healthcare .
Within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 110.4 million tenge was credited on 6 projects.
Recall that the internship program was attended by 40 civil servants-young people from 24 regions of the Russian Federation, in particular the federal level, subjects of the federation and Moscow, the Republic of Tatarstan, Dagestan, Ingushetia, Krasnoyarsk Territory, Kamchatka Territory, Vladimir, Bryansk Regions.
For employment organizations in 2015, within the framework of the Employment Roadmap 2020, the republican budget provides for 1,434,8 million tenge, of which 489.9 million tenge is allocated for infrastructure projects, microcredit and training in the basics of entrepreneurship - 477.5 million tenge, employment support - 216.8 million tenge.
According to the Secretary of State, in difficult economic conditions in the world, Kazakhstan positions itself as a stable and developing state.
Earlier this year, the two governments discussed issues of increasing flights between Kazakhstan and Korea. earlier this year the two governments have discussed the issue of increasing of the number of flights between korea and kazakhstan .
It should be noted that at today's forum "enterprise of capital construction of akimat of the city of Almaty" of dual-sp LLP concerning construction materials, p Almat tazalyk LLP mkk "Kazlegprom almat", Nakhodka ltd LLP with Hyundai of trans auto LLP, Holding Almat Sou LLP mkk "spira-berga", Enterprise of Capital Construction of Akimat of the City of Almaty LLP reinforced concrete 1 "with Ags stroyindustriya LLP.
now it remains to return 135.6 thousand hectares of agricultural land to state ownership, including arable land - 21.8 thousand hectares, pastures - 113.8 thousand hectares.
with these words our homeland begins, "the head of state said.
the basis of economic growth in our country lies in the wording of the president "first economy - then politics."
More than 800 employees of the kazatomprom from Astana, Almaty and Kyzylorda, South Kazakhstan, Mangistau, Akmola, East Kazakhstan and Almaty regions take part in the spartakiad, which will be held until August 21. more than 800 employees of national company from astana , almaty , kyzylorda , south kazakhstan , mangistau , akmola , east kazakhstan and almaty regions participate in the spartakiad , which will last until august 21 , " the press service of the national company reported .
During the subcommittee meeting, the parties exchanged views on the Kazakh-Chinese cooperation in the field of security and defense, relevant international and regional issues, and also discussed plans for further work.
all of them are representatives of various professions, ethnic groups and labor dynasties. "
At the same time, state support is obvious, "the entrepreneur added.
a joint "Kazakh Coal Energy Company" was created.
As part of the implementation of the Unified Business Support and Development Program "Business Roadmap 2020" since the beginning of the year, 134 projects totaling 10.3 billion tenge have been covered by state support.
This is primarily the result of the state program of industrial and innovative development, which created a favorable investment climate in the country, "said E. Khairov.
According to him, the first two qualifications will evaluate the work of the civil servant with the head.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the historical, linguistic and cultural proximity of the peoples of the two countries.
To this end, in 2015 I instructed to complete the construction of the first complex of the "dry port," to direct 81 billion tenge to the infrastructure of the special economic zones "Khorgos-East Gate" and "National Industrial Petrochemical Technopark" in the region and scales.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that an agreement was reached on concrete steps of Kazakhstan and Pakistan in relation to industry, pharmaceuticals, energy, military-technical sphere, science and other important areas.
Recall that today the II international media forum of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "Culture of Peace and Harmony" was held in the capital.
the plant is equipped with the most modern technologies equipped with an automated production control system of world manufacturers: lisk (Austria), biesse s.p.a (Italy), bistronic (Germany), Finland.
15 hectares of land were allocated for these purposes, 112.0 million tenge was allocated for the necessary infrastructure from the regional budget.
First Deputy Prime Minister B. Sagintayev as a responsible person in the government for preparing the Expo-2017 exhibition should deal with these issues, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
companies included in the group of Kazakhstan railways also fulfill corporate social obligations.
the capital is an attractive city.
this year the volume will be slightly increased.
we are representatives of different religions, nationalities, languages ​ ​ - one family in the capital. we are the people - representatives of different religions , different nations , representatives of different languages - in astana are considered as family .
current builders are actively participating in the implementation of state and industry programs, "said the head of the region.
caspian european club leaders sent congratulations to the President of Kazakhstan on behalf of the entire team of more than 5,000 companies and organizations, as well as on behalf of thousands of readers of caspian energy international media group.
at a meeting took part the vice-Minister for Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the scientist of akhmedyar, the vice-chairman of Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan - Oleg of smokes, the Chairman of the Committee on social development of Mazhilis of parliament - gulnar iksan, deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of public authorities of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria.
this year is rich in novelties, anniversary dates. this year is rich with events , anniversaries .
The placement of the bank will meet the political and practical interests of the country. siting of the bank will respond to political and practical interests of our country .
we have received monetary compensation. we have received monetary compensation .
We are working on the development of bilateral commercial partnership, "he said.
the documentary was shot on the basis of Nursultan Nazarbayev's book "In the Stream of History."
As noted, last week an agreement was signed between ktze - khorgos gateway LLP and Zarya Ltd LLC on the construction of a storage elevator for reception in a dry port.
secondly, a new procedure for dealing with investment disputes is being introduced.
Currently, the president is signing the law "On pension security," - said S. Ferkho.
As you know, China is one of the first countries to confirm the independence of Kazakhstan. as you know , china was among the first countries to recognize the independence of kazakhstan .
In 10 other regions (Almaty, East Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Kostanay, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan, South Kazakhstan region and Astana city) the vaccine coverage rate ranges from 50 to 80%.
Kazakhstan is developing interstate dialogue. kazakhstan is successfully developing intergovernmental dialogue .
the railway train saved 25-30% of the costs and time for many companies, "said Vladimir Savchenko.
this is a very important and historical event for all Kazakhstanis. this event is a significant and historic for all kazakhstanis .
the competition was organized by Astana Expo 2017 together with the Ministry of Education and Science and Mycha, the educational center, as well as representatives of the republican organization Green Country.
Within the EU, we focus on the budget. special attention we pay to the eu budget .
polyethylene pipes for sewerage from 300 to 600 mm 800 tons per year.
the plant was built according to the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
Despite the changing economic environment, the psa peugeot citroèn group adheres to the course adopted in the CIS. despite the changing economic environment , psa peugeot citroën group remains committed to making business rate in the cis region .
the parties discussed bilateral economic relations between the Zlinsk region and the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As of October 1, 2015, there are 51,046 small and medium-sized enterprises in Akmola region, of which 4258 are legal entities, average business - 130 units, individual entrepreneurs - 43,022 units and economic facilities (farmers), 3636 units - the report says.
the territory of Kazakhstan is rich in resources. kazakhstan is a territory rich in natural resources .
These are great achievements that we have achieved since January 1, 2015, "he said.
totaling 1.9 billion tenge, "the press service of Capital-New City JSC reported.
EU member states drew attention to the initiatives of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, including the nuclear project.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan creates good conditions for constructive dialogue.
The film was created on the basis of the book of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "At the junction of history."
Of course, subject to ensuring the appropriate price, quality and delivery time, "said the deputy chairman of the board of Astana Expo-2017, a diamond of jamanbeks.
the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Main Military Procuracy, heads of the Prosecutor General's transport Office and prosecutors of all border areas of the republic and also representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Russian Federation, Altai Republic, the Kalmyk republic, Altai Krai, Astrakhan, Volgograd, Novosibirsk, Omsk, Ural, Samara, the Saratov, Tyumen and Chelyabinsk regions, the West Siberian, Ural and southern transport, Also take part the first heads of prosecutor's offices of the Baikonur complex.
According to the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, Georgian, Kyrgyz, Mongolian, Polish, Russian, Turkish, Uzbek and Kazakhstani paluans gathered on the square.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that Akhmetzhan Yessimov, appointed by the management of the national company Astana Expo-2017, did a great job as akim of Almaty.
Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation with China in the implementation of this program both bilaterally and multilaterally, "the head of government added.
the office building of the national company "azastan tem_r zhola" is one of capital buildings.
design bureau of transport engineering, the share of sales - 100%, the owner of the share - the "center of engineering and technology transfer" is white, the initial price is 577 535 001 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 months.
we are very happy, congratulations on returning to earth, "said the head of state.
first of all - textile, grain industry, mechanical engineering, financial sector, insurance companies, "- said in-house.
In Ukraine, Belarus, the source battery competes with European products.
Dear Prime Minister, these achievements were achieved as a result of our close ties, mutual trust and high political dialogue, "the President said.
this indicates the high interest of the two countries, "said A. Issekeshev.
The President of Kazakhstan and the UN Secretary General also touched upon the main international issues on the agenda.
we'll change them.
The launch of the Nұrly zhol program will open an international financial center in the capital, as well as a joint economic program of the silk road with China will give a new impetus to the influx of foreign investors, "said A. Issekeshev.
As the forum participants noted, "the main directions of the EAEU's international activities for 2015-2016" and "approaches to the development of trade and economic cooperation with the main eeo partners for the middle term" will be signed.
Under your leadership, Kazakhstan has embarked on the path of economic development, political stability and has become an influential state in the international and regional arena.
they prepare numbers on heroic and patriotic topics (activities in the ranks of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, friendly and combat comrades, love for the homeland, our heroes).
the parties also considered issues of cooperation between the two countries within the framework of regional and international organizations.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions.
First of all, I want to congratulate the head of state, whose idea has become as much speculation as the capital. first of all , i want to congratulate the head of state , it was the president , who had an idea to create such a project - astana .
at the same time, Kazakhstan realized and financed the majority.
we opened an embassy from Kabul and are ready to increase our cooperation in the economy and politics if possible, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Along with Kazakhstan, representatives of the ministries of education of Thailand, Indonesia, Egypt, the authors, the Panamanian and Korean Republic and international experts took part.
Kazakhstan was ahead of its partners in this ranking: Moldova - 69th place, Ukraine-70, China-71, Kyrgyzstan - 74, Russia-75, Turkey-80, Uzbekistan-81.
If the akims of the districts jointly create a joint agricultural plan on the Syrdarya coast, we are ready to finance projects, "the head of the region said.
the entire item is certified.
we participate in the programs announced by the President of Kazakhstan. we are involved in the social programs that are announced by the president of kazakhstan .
At the same time, economic policy is aimed at ensuring socio-economic stability in order to prevent a decline in production, a decrease in investment and credit activity, and an increase in unemployment, "the Prime Minister continued.
Among the companies that intend to purchase domestic products and signed memoranda, there are such collectives as Petro-Kazakhstan without kumkol resource, AK Neft from the Month, Interkurylys LLP, Abu-Ser LLP, Capital Service Ltd LLC, Skeif Trade LLC.
today kaznex invest "and the development bank of Kazakhstan are considering applications from exporting companies, several of which have already received their first financing.
78 billion tenge is provided for the implementation of these projects.
The preliminary agreement was signed by Governor of Aktobe region Berdibek Saparbayev, founder of the project, director of Aktobetermokox LLP asem makhmetbay and investor - president of Singapore company azura international.
sincerely grateful to the president, heads of regions and cities for this well-being. "
our countries today have close political relations.
This meeting took place on the eve of the state visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to Kazakhstan.
Unfortunately, this steel is completely imported, "said M. Pischbaei.
established a line for the production of two-seater pipes "optima," corrugated from polypropylene.
we took part in three major events - general debates and two summits. we participated in three major events - the general debate and the two summits .
they were based on the rules of "yellow pages," that is, "yellow pages," which were reflected in the law "on competition," adopted in April of this year, restricting state participation in entrepreneurial activities, "said the Minister.
The project will be available in Astana, Almaty in August, and by the end of the year it will be implemented throughout Kazakhstan, "said the head of the Mobile Government project gulmira isabekova during the presentation.
The implementation of the road program brings all regions of the country closer to the capital.
scientific and practical conferences in Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Egypt.
high pressure plant.
14 out of 36 sections are sent to the Eurasian Economic Union.
this will give an opportunity to look at the new economic policy, "said M. Mukhanov.
the promotion will last two months. the campaign will be last two months .
we approved more than 250 intergovernmental and interdepartmental agreements in various areas, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
in the east we get 14.12 and 10 meters of pipes.
in addition, the head of the holding spoke about five new institutional reforms announced by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the artist toured with high success in France, Germany, Japan, Argentina, New Zealand, Kenya and many other countries.
the share of medium and large industrial enterprises in the manufacturing industry amounted to 78.2% or 70.8 billion tenge, electricity, gas supply, steam and conditioning, respectively, 89.6% and 25.0 billion tenge, water supply, sewerage system, control over the collection and distribution of waste 91.2% and 3.6 billion tenge.
such meetings bring us closer, "he said.
we collect and mount slabs and pipes on a construction site, "he said.
Japan, France, Brazil, China, Russia, the Netherlands, Austria, Argentina, Hungary, Romania, Mongolia, Kazakhstan and other countries.
On behalf of the head of state, the second five-year plan of industrialization is aimed at the innovative development of the industry. in accordance with the request of the head of state , the second five-year plan is focused on the industrialization of innovative development of industry .
The meeting was attended by the heads of interested state bodies, the Atameken NPP and the Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, topical issues of domestic culture, literature, art and book publishing, as well as the cultural and spiritual situation, prospects for its development were discussed.
and gas prices in Kazakhstan equaled Russian.
the competition is held in five categories: the best innovative project among schoolchildren, the best young scientist, "" the best rationalization solution of the year, "" the best system for supporting rationalization at the enterprise, the best journalistic material on innovative topics. "
the forum-supporting center of international programs "the future," the international student union "Kazalyans" and the activities of the German academic exchange.
in the total structure of financing investment projects of the fund, own funds make up 27%, borrowed funds - 73%.
Meetings in the capital are very important, because, first of all, Milan hands the keys to the expo to the capital. meetings in astana are especially important , because milan will pass the keys of expo to astana .
a segment of the national economy, whose oil and gas and energy industries are the driving force of the country. oil and gas industry , energy industry is one of the segments of the national economy , the driving force of the country .
Kazakhstan has been working for multilateral cooperation between our countries since the beginning of the CIS, "the head of state said.
On the first call, all first-graders were solemnly presented with the book of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "My homeland is Kazakhstan."
During the meeting, the sides exchanged views on cooperation between Kazakhstan and the United States of America in various aspects, including in the economic and humanitarian spheres.
we work closely with many embassies. i would like to note that we work closely with many embassies .
In conclusion, the head of state stressed that our country is committed to the principles of free trade and open integration.
The investment program was developed for a period of 3 years for a total amount of 3,457,544 thousand tenge.
our organization is engaged in youth politics, which means it fulfills a state social order. our organization is engaged in youth policy , the state social order .
Nұrly Zhol, Agrobusiness 2020, ZhSK-2020, Green Country and other state industry programs attracted 907 people.
The motor race was organized by the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the initiative of the President of the Kazakhstan Geographical Society, the world famous traveler D. Petrukhin.
Also in the action "Made in Kazakhstan - in Kazakhstan -2015" the award of distinguished participants is provided.
participants in the meeting offered to cooperate.
The main areas of projects implemented by the teams within the framework of enactus are entrepreneurship, social development, environmental protection.
compositional and artistic knot of the triptych - a portrait of the first president of independent Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The shape of the sole of the Kazakhstan central concert hall resembles an ellipse.
The head of state noted that in preparation for the international exhibition "Expo-2017," the national company bears great responsibility.
e. and. and. Tarasenko noted that the work of the national commission was created as part of new reforms, and there is an important task ahead to maximize the involvement of women in all socio-political and economic spheres of the country.
I congratulate Kazakhstan on Capital Day. i sincerely congratulate kazakhstan on the day of the capital .
regarding financial services, we allow foreign companies to enter the market of telecommunications and financial services in Kazakhstan, "he said.
The main feature of the aktau open fest festival this year will be the qualifying stage of the break dance world championship, in which athletes from Kazakhstan and Central Asia will take part.
V. Nuryshev invited representatives of the Chinese company in the field of green energy to take part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana.
they noted our achievements and were amazed by our tolerance at the interethnic and interfaith level, "he said.
As for the exploration project, thanks to state support for subsidizing the percentage share of the loan, we have the opportunity to create an additional 15 jobs, increase the salary of employees and make payments to the budget on time and more, "said the director of Azimut Geology Rakhat Mustafin.
our customers are large construction companies and developers, "said Alexander Gavrilov, director of the plant.
As the head of state noted, one of the topics of mutual discussion is the international security situation.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, a. Volkov met in Belgrade with Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, First Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia - Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chairman of Ekyu Ivica dačić, Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia - Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Rasim Lajić, Minister of Justice of Serbia Nikol Selaković and the Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church.
these measures were supported by the Government. the measures have been approved by the government .
our priority is to protect business from illegal administrative pressure, we are conducting this work with the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, "said A. Kravchenko.
The capital hosts the international conference "Promotion of energy efficiency and design in housing construction in Kazakhstan."
In total, there are 570 thousand deposits in the residential construction bank, while the amount of more than 400 thousand deposits exceeds 1 million tenge.
we consider you a great politician and strategist. we consider you as a great politician and strategist .
During the meeting, A.Musinov handed over to the interlocutor a letter from the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Prime Minister of Cambodia Hun Sen regarding support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for the post of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018.
Based on the results of the work, the expert council made specific recommendations used in the work of the security council and state bodies.
western Europe - western China, center-south, center-east, center-west, Alma-Ata, Kyzylorda-Zhezkazgan-Karaganda, capital-Peter and Paul-Russian border, Ural-Kamenogorsk, Astana, southwestern detour, zhetybai-zhanaozen, usharal friendship.
60-70 percent.
our commission believes that all the conditions and services provided by the sanatorium of Kazakhstan will be fulfilled.
The agreement was signed at the Elysee Palace during the extended meeting of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
joint ventures will be established on the basis of different conditions, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
our competition is held in four categories: the best innovative project among schoolchildren, the best young scientist, "" the best inventive solution of the year, the best reporter material on innovative topics, "" said Salimov.
The company urthecast corp was presented with a satellite constellation of remote sensing of the earth under the working name "gen-3."
Currently, Baiterek Holding is commissioning and allocating 3983 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 226.4 thousand square meters. m in Astana, Almaty, Shymkent, Aktobe, Kokshetau, Kostanay, Semey, Taraz, Karaganda, Aktau, Taldykorgan and Kyzylorda.
we're glad we came here. we are delighted to be here .
President of the national contest "Miss Kazakhstan" Alena Rivlina-krymbasova noted that participation in the competition for all girls is free.
A memorandum was also signed with the white state national natural parks "National Company" Astana Expo-2017, "in particular with the institutions" Kolsay River, "" golden emel, "" Ile alatau, "as well as the tour operators" Silk Road "and" asia discovery "
According to him, the research work will be carried out according to the following list: history, archeology, restoration, art history, cultural and educational events, souvenir industrial activities.
the winners will be awarded in December of this year in the nominations "the best socially responsible enterprise," "the best enterprise in the field of labor protection," "the best collective contract," "for contribution to the environment."
Altai East Kazakhstan Technopark LLP, the share sold - 21.6%, the owner of the share - the "center of engineering and technology transfer," the initial price - 309 205 444 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 aek.
this work is favorable for conducting unified work with the centers of the regions. this work is focused on a single coordinated work of centers in regions and cities of kazakhstan .
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov held a meeting with the president of soxna.
In July of this year, the first container train "nomad express" was launched, running on the route China (Shihezi) - Kazakhstan (friendship port - whitewash) - Azerbaijan (small).
Thus, he overtook countries such as Portugal, Greece, Spain, Mexico, Turkey, Malaysia, China and Brazil, "the head of state said.
we see that the university has already formed, "said the head of state.
We plan that the project will be launched before the end of the year.	we expect that the project will be launched this year ,  - zh . kusmangaliyeva said .
The regional airline "qazaq air" carries out transportation to the inner cities of Kazakhstan.
According to Sh. Zukhurov, the successes of our country, especially in the economic sphere, increase the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan.
today we have witnessed that the green economy is used in practice, "said E. Trasenko.
the second is the development of new directions.
The transition to a new type of economy attracts all Kazakhstanis, "said the head of state.
Constitution Day is a significant holiday for Kazakhstanis. constitution day - an important holiday for all kazakhstanis .
"e-dining room," "e-library, video surveillance system.
doctors who have not passed the assessment of knowledge and practical skills are allowed to re-pass the qualification exam after submitting documents on additional completion of the advanced training course in the declared specialty for at least 108 hours.
the energy of the future. "
The events were attended by state and public figures, well-known scientists, delegations from the capital, Almaty and other cities of the country, the Russian Federation.
Recall, on July 1, 2015, Baiterek Holding coordinated residential buildings in the capital, Kostanay, Aktobe, Almaty and Pavlodar as part of the Nұrly Zhol program.
the jury included talented authors and performers, honored guests: pavel fakhrtdinov (Moscow), target of sarsenbek, (Astana), gulzada basembayev (Astana), Vladimir Tingaev (Baikonur), victor kalachev, (Kuvandyk), Dmitry Ananyev (Orenburg), Kefir Guzair, (Orenburg), Farit Sahabutdins, (Almaty), irina loboda (Almaty) and the Russian federation (Kuvanda, Orsk, Novotroitsky, Yekaterinburg, Moscow) creative teams and bard clubs of cities of Kazakhstan (capital, Almaty, Ural, Baikonur, zhezkazgan, ekibastuz, aktobe).
With these funds, the construction of new roads will begin next year: the center-south project - from Karaganda to Balkash, the center-west project - the capital - aktobe - atyrau - Astrakhan, narrow-gauge - otar - seventy - new.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan K.Masimov, Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan K.K.elimbetov. dossaev and Minister of Finance b. sultans.
from the moment of entry into force of the accession agreement, as well as the above protocols to it by the Kyrgyz Republic, taking into account the circumstances and transitional provisions, is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union and includes the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, as well as the obligations stipulated by other international treaties concluded within the framework of the formation of the legal framework of the customs union and the single economic space included in the law of the Eurasian Economic Union.
this is combined with the ultimate interests of the people of Kazakhstan, "the head of state emphasized.
he is a champion of Kazakhstan of 2012, the bronze prize-winner of the World Cup among the military personnel the lance sergeant festive a zhunusova, the champion of RK and the international tournaments private Ruslan Zhaparov, the Master of Sports, the champion of RK private Marat Abdykaliyev, employees of CK PK - the participant of the Olympic Games in London, the champion of RK Nursultan Mamayev and the Master of Sports, the champion of RK citizen Tengayev.
For two days, schoolchildren visited the Sejm and excursion on the Komsomol island of the Irtysh Way of Life and the lifeguard baton, where they, as a biologist, ecologist, journalist, hydrobiologist, travelers, needed to stop at the stops "arachnid cage," "first aid," "ecobilgish," "" research direction. "
of them for permanent work - 104 people, for social jobs - 10 people, for youth practice - 48 people, for community service - 89 people and for training - 4 people, "the report said.
According to Dr. Krol, the main goal of the business forum is to expand the contact space between the two countries.
Thanks to Kaznex invest JSC World of Kazakhstan, our company took part in visiting trade missions to Belarusian, Uzbek, Turkmen and Russian states.
The construction of EXPO-2017 is a big project. expo 2017 - great , ambitious project .
Thanks to this situation, the country's foreign economic activity can become more stable and predictable, the expert added.
in the future, we develop cooperation in the field of transport, pharmaceuticals, information technologies and food, higher education, construction.
4 thousand 600 jobs created, "the Governor said.
Following the negotiations, representatives of rheinmetall and the national company Kazakhstan Engineering signed a memorandum of understanding.
fitch bayterek "also confirmed the ratings of priority unsecured domestic bond issues: a long-term rating in national currency at the level of" a- "and a national long-term rating of" aaaa (gas), "the report said.
the embassy published a business certificate on economic opportunities in Kazakhstan, for this purpose attracting new investments in the Kazakh economy.
Russians who learn Kazakh through interesting video replays. "
this is the first production process in Kazakhstan.
Also, the applicant passes the national audit in the national security agencies, "added S. Akhmetzhanov.
with the weakening of the world economy and the instability of international financial markets, European and Central Asian countries are gradually moving to a new economic norm. against the backdrop of a weakening global economy and instability of international financial markets the countries of europe and central asia ( eca ) gradually grope new economic norm .
we hope that Shia guests will also take part in the action, "he said.
2.5 billion tenge will be allocated for housing construction.
he noted the connection between the old and the new Astana Opera Theater.
we are very interested in representing Costa Rica for expo, especially since the republic has a high standard of living and a developed economy, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
586.6 billion tenge of investments is directed to housing construction.
today the state is doing everything possible to create a professional state, "he said.
in the same year, the Khorgos-East Gate cargo ship successfully operates.
India's membership in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization will allow it to strengthen relations with the countries of the region, including Kazakhstan, the Prime Minister of India said.
Today, in all schools in Kazakhstan, the first lesson begins with the topic "my homeland-Kazakhstan," for which every first-grader receives the book "My homeland-Kazakhstan" on behalf of the head of state as a gift, our goal is to increase the stability of the country and patriotism, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
signing of this agreement will give additional impetus to cooperation between the Mayor's Office of Astana and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. the signing of this agreement will give additional impetus to cooperation between the administration of astana and the european bank for reconstruction and development .
we agreed with the Department of Employment and Social Programs. we have an agreement with the office of employment and social programs .
Trade turnover between the two countries last year amounted to 2 billion US dollars.
- maintaining stability and tranquillity in Kyrgyzstan, continuing the development of the country, the presence of a strong state is the idea of ​ ​ all Kazakhstanis, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
One of them - "business development" - is aimed at financing small and medium-sized business projects.
This is an important intention, and we support it, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the head of state was presented with developments for application in the industry.
local residents accepted them, "he said.
we split the support into two blocks.
Kazakhstan put forward its candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in the period from 2017 to 2018, "he said.
According to the construction director of Orda glass ltd LLP, with the full commissioning of the plant, a new permanent workplace 350-400 "will be created.
In 2015, the program provided 24.7 billion tenge, including 21.9 billion tenge for subsidies.
At the same time, barriers to business will be removed, "he said.
Recall that the state program "Cultural Heritage" was implemented on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The press conference will be attended by the President of JSC "ktz express" Sanzhar Yelubaev, Vice President of "ktz express" Sergey Anashkin, Deputy Director of the branch "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy" - "Center for the Development of Transport Logistics" abdur-rashid sakenov.
He got acquainted with the work of the regional multidisciplinary hospital with 320 places in the framework of the program "100 schools, 100 hospitals."
they released a new high-quality product through the hybridization of "courage" and the Kazakh varieties of "elite."
we want to see in this draft all the issues identified in the water management programme. in this project we want to see all the ideas that have been reflected in the state program on water resources management .
The construction of the plant is planned to be completed by the end of this year. construction is scheduled to finish by the end of the year .
at the museum I learned a lot about my fellow countrymen. in the museum , i learned a lot about our fellow countrymen .
Following the meeting, the parties reached an agreement to launch a number of pilot smart projects in Shymkent, such as smart school, smart clinic, smart street lighting, etc.
In addition, the book festival "Book Fest," "Almaty - the City of Readers," the actions "The Key of the World - in the Book, about Books and Books of Famous People of Almaty" and thematic library events "I Sing Almaty" will be held as part of City Day.
The bill implements the instructions of the head of state on effective investment to complete the development of arbitration. the bill implements the instruction of the head of state that it 's necessary to complete the development of arbitration for effective investment .
in addition, Kazakhstan adopted a law "on peacekeeping," K. Zhakupov said.
Since this year, it is important that cnpc join the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
During the meeting, the relations between Kazakhstan and eex were discussed, as well as the prospects for organizing EXPO-2017.
During the meeting, issues of using information and communication technologies (acts) in the field of social security were discussed.
sources of financing are international financial institutions, the national fund and the national budget.
To date, 45 countries have officially confirmed their participation in expo 2017, these are Russia, China, France, Germany, Turkey, Korea, Japan, Israel, India, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Bolivia, DPRK, Vietnam, Switzerland, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Romania and others.
According to the head of the department of coordination of employment and social programs Kanybek aitzhanov, prior to the implementation of the project in 26 rural districts of the Enbekshikazakh district, awareness-raising work was also carried out by a specially formed operational group of the population in all districts and cities of the region.
the formation of independent Kazakhstan is very closely connected with the name of the first president Nursultan Nazarbayev. the formation of kazakhstan is closely linked with the name of the first president nursultan nazarbayev .
At the end of 2015, it is planned to open the capital-Pavlodar (47 km) and Pavlodar-Semipalatinsk (53km) traffic per 100 km.
According to him, the new program should help launch the tool "rent for purchase."
According to the head of state, the flag of Kazakhstan is a symbol of a successful state for the whole world.
the project is supported by the Ministry of Education and Science.
A total of 100 people were trained, "said O. Alibekov.
The Head of State drew the attention of the meeting participants to the negative impact of instability in the world economy on Kazakhstan.
this document creates all necessary conditions for increasing mutual trade, attracting investments and developing mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation.
this is the exchange of experience and technology.
Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan and Miyazavoy discussed the opening new opportunities for Japanese business in connection with the implementation of the nұrly Zhol program, as well as the participation of Japanese companies in the international exhibition expo 2017.
thus, the Secretary of State met with the Prime Minister of Japan, and also held talks with the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan.
Note that the investment forum "astana invest" is held for the 6th time in a row.
Also, heads of law enforcement agencies and prosecutors, courts, constitutional control bodies of 28 countries, well-known domestic and foreign legal scholars were invited to the conference.
During the meeting, issues of participation in large concession projects in the East Kazakhstan region "Shinhan Bank Kazakhstan" were announced.
According to the ambassador of our country to Poland, according to the terms of the bilateral agreement, this program will provide investment partnership for the development of clusters in Kazakhstan and the activities of the al-Farabi Copernicus international innovation center and the implementation of bilateral intersectoral cooperation programs.
The minister also spoke about the national project of cultural development - the program "Eternal Country," which will give a new impetus to the development of the country's historical and cultural heritage.
the opening of Astana air service through today's "air astana" is a great achievement.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the President of Tajikistan on his birthday.
agrarian business is becoming an increasingly profitable and important sector of the economy in Kazakhstan. agricultural business in kazakhstan is becoming more profitable and important sector , as a result of the work and the effective use .
During the event, a tripartite memorandum was signed on the development of the telecommunications industry in Kazakhstan between the national agency for the development of local content "nadloc" and the company "Kaztekhelectronics."
in addition, the objects of the universiade will be involved in the work, "the statement said.
During the meeting, practical issues of the implementation of the joint project "Improvement of the judicial monitoring system" for 2014-2016 were discussed.
cartridges are produced in the special economic region "peak alatau" in Alma-Ata, they are exported to Belarus, "said A. Arynov.
The same project of discrimination is the formation of an inclusive society in Kazakhstan.
Opening the meeting, the head of state noted that the expo has become a national project that can give impetus to the domestic economy and the development of new technologies.
of these, 827 in industry, 2,418 in trade, 679 in transport and communications, 1,741 in education and health, 1,678 in construction and utilities, and 3,187 in other sectors.
funds from the national and local budgets will be allocated for the implementation of the health program.
the main income of the enterprise is the international partnership of two strong shareholders, who are represented by the white subsidiary of Kazmunaigaz uk "ak" kmg processing and marketing "and cnpc corporation (China).
In 2015, 269.3 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of these projects, including 178 billion tenge for the national fund.
During the visit to Brussels, a meeting was held with the Deputy Prime Minister of Belgium, the head of the cabinet of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mark Pekstin.
The head of state expressed confidence that business companies will take an active part in these projects.
the new variety was called "aru."
As of July 1, as part of the second five-year plan (2015-2019), 3 projects were launched with an investment volume of 14.3 billion tenge and the creation of 242 jobs.
The parties discussed issues of official development assistance, priorities of cooperation within the framework of the kazaid project, Kazakhstan's partnership program for 2016-2020.
Minister for Investment and Development A.Isekeshov, Chairman of the Board of Kazmunaigaz uk "minbayev, Chairman of the Board of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs a.myrzakhmet.
we got the opportunity to open jobs and new enterprises, "said the head of state.
According to the program of the international space space camp camp, children got acquainted with life and work of astronauts, learned about space, studied astronomy and structure of the International Space Station, examined clothes of astronauts.
in the structure of deposits of the population tenge deposits amounted to 1410.7 billion tenge, in foreign currency 3012.5 billion tenge.
he will oversee the work of the legal department, the department of risk management and corporate governance, accounting and reporting, economics and budget planning.
the term of study in republican military boarding schools is two years (10th and 11th grades).
now the center will conduct professional diagnostics of people with disabilities, conduct retraining and advanced training courses in those areas that are important for the labor market, as well as organize business consultations on the state programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020," create office jobs and support starting business activities.
Management and general contractors of EXPO-2017 met with entrepreneurs of Almaty region.
it is a Central Asian and CIS country.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that over the years of Kazakhstan's independence, a powerful foundation of the social state has been laid, and the social development of our republic has approached the level of the Middle European countries, "the Mayor said.
2038 of them - in the first category (heads and their deputies), 6411 - in the second category (heads of structural divisions).
Our history of independence has not yet continued, over 24 years there have been various intensive processes, events, many facts and dates are concentrated, they disappear among life, we have almost forgotten about them, but it is the concentration of these dates and processes, events that makes up a real history, "said the deputy director.
With the creation of an inter-parliamentary council between the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Supreme Council of Kyrgyzstan. i would like to congratulate you on the creation of the interparliamentary council on cooperation between the parliaments of kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan .
86.9% and 89.5%, respectively.
Firstly, we plan to switch to the production of new products for the construction of roads and railways.
By 2016, it is planned to complete West Chinese roads: vision - whitewash, capital - temirtau, Almaty - kapchagai, capital - Petropavlovsk.
As world ratings show, Milan is one of the three smart cities in the world, "he said.
this is an important initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at forming a dialogue of religious and political leaders.
sauce began to expand and modernize its projects.
In addition, the investment portfolio increased: in 8 months of 2015, Baiterek Holding invested 62.6 billion tenge of direct investment.
This year, leading neurosurgeons from Russia, France, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Turkey, Israel, Ireland, the Netherlands, Hungary and several other states arrived in the capital.
The meeting discussed the issues of the company's participation in the development of the Kazakh economy, the prospects for its activities within the framework of state programs.
this also applies to the political situation.
kazatomprom has many years of cooperation.
In this regard, I see the future of our union state, "the President said.
given that it has large reserves, this is of great importance for our energy balance, "the head of state said.
the company's staff is always ready for the implementation of new projects, "the president of sknb assured.
the motor race will take place on the roads of Karaganda, Rostovsk, families, Pavlodar, Kokshetau, Kostanay, Aktobe, islands, Baikonur, Kyzylorda, Turkestan, Shymkent and others.
sports events were held in basketball, football, volleyball, "fun undertakings," drafts and chess.
because our constitution "we are the people of Kazakhstan. ".
the parties discussed possible areas of cooperation between the two countries and prospects for new maruben projects in Kazakhstan.
44,476 objects worth 307.0 billion tenge were legalized.
India is interested in direct contacts with our country, "said the deputy chairman of the board of kaznex invest aidar diamond.
capital park: disco
In general, we will constantly develop this direction, "he said.
solving social problems, "" happy family, "" happy childhood. "
agricultural support, systemic issues, service delivery and access to commodity markets.
The President of Myanmar noted the importance of strengthening cooperation between the two countries and further developing friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Myanmar.
in general, the exhibition "History of Kazakh Law" will allow controlling the main stages of its development, in particular from "kasymkhan" to "the old way of yeshimkhan," "seven statutes of khan tauke," "to the constitution of the republic adopted in 1995," - said the researcher of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizer of the exhibition Togzhan adilbekova.
Korean airline asiana airlines plans to open a direct flight Seoul-capital in early August.
in our region, all conditions have been created for the development of cycling. our region has great potential for the development of cycling .
B. Obama wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health and happiness.
Today, business forums are held in Kazakhstan and abroad, "he said.
in addition, Kazakhstan is developing appropriate transport infrastructure.
this project was successfully launched in Almaty, and now we intend to continue it in the capital.
China's state-owned nuclear corporation is one of the largest companies with a full nuclear fuel cycle.
the total length is more than 3 thousand km, "the minister said.
Last year Kazakhstan simplified measures to introduce business for domestic entrepreneurs.
Memorandum of cooperation between the Mayor's Office of Astana, the Union of Engineering Workers of Kazakhstan and the Federation of the Italian Association of Engineering Industry "anima."
oil (nmg) produced 4,115 thousand tons (111 thousand barrels per day), which is 123 thousand tons (3 thousand barrels per day) or 3% more than in the same period last year.
reinforced concrete products required for construction - Azmk LLP (diamonds); concrete for laying roads - asphalt concrete plant-1 (Almaty), TNH LLP (Pavlodar); cement - cement company and family cement enterprises (wko).
thousands of young people worked at the facilities of the state program, "he said.
to finance the modernization of the Shardarin hydroelectric station Samruk-energo with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a total amount of $51.4 million. Samruk-kazyna Invest LLP signed a contract with the united green group totaling $50 million to increase the capacity of the Burnoye solar power plant in the Zhambyl region from 100 mW to 105.5 mW.
on the Kazakh side, a lot of work is being done outside and inside the country. kazakhstani side conducts a great preparatory work within the country and abroad .
Within two weeks, the tank crews of the ground forces of Kazakhstan will have to compete with the tanks of Russia, China, India, Angola, Venezuela, Kuwait, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Armenia, Serbia, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
also works on the elevator, "said N.Martyanova.
communication expo - combining information campaign at national and international levels.
we wish the brother of the Kazakh people to achieve their goals, "the professor said.
He noted that in February of this year a country program of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Edu for 2015-2016 was signed.
the creation of the international financial center of the capital is another ambitious initiative.
Kazakhstan has a "national company" Kazakhstan Space Visit, "which manages the country's satellite production.
In 2001, the capital - the new city "attracted 2 trillion tenge of investment.
During the meeting with the head of the region Danial Akhmetov, issues of establishing partnerships and implementing joint projects were discussed.
We increase the amount from 5.6 million tenge to 9 million tenge. we increase the amount from 5 , 6 to 9 million tenge .
our teenagers are well done, we are pleased, "said the commander of the 3rd battalion, captain of the Umbetzhans.
the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Tajikistan, Pakistan, Cuba, Mexico, Serbia, Egypt and others.
domestic agricultural companies, including the ecdb, should attract investment. domestic agricultural companies must attract investment , including ebrd .
France's participation in the exhibition will further strengthen fruitful cooperation between our countries. "
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the country is focused on the development of transport and logistics potential and the construction of infrastructure.
we adopted a constitution beginning with the word "people of Kazakhstan."
renouncing nuclear heritage was the only right strategic solution, as it allowed the country to take a worthy place in the world community, creating the conditions for successful reforms in the economy by attracting 190 billion dollars of investment and ultimately ensuring our security. giving up the nuclear legacy was the only correct strategic decision , because it ensured the country a worthy place in the world community , it created the preconditions for successful economic reforms with the assistance of more than 190 billion dollars of investment and , ultimately , ensured its safety .
When paying a 50-room apartment with an area of ​ ​ 2 square meters 45-47 thousand tenge for a 3-room apartment, 79 thousand tenge must be paid.
kaznex invest "creates conditions for entering a new market for domestic producers.
According to the results of 2014, Kazakhstan produced more than 5.0 million tons of milk (including 82% in personal subsidiary farms, 18% in agricultural structures).
at the meeting we are developing a law on patronage, sponsorship and charity.
Kazakhstan is Japan's largest trade and economic partner in central Asia. traditionally kazakhstan is the biggest trade partner of japan in central asia .
I am pleased to meet you at the summit of the Turkic-speaking Cooperation Council in the capital. i am pleased to see you at the astana summit of the cooperation council of turkic-speaking states .
According to him, this project is being implemented together with the famous French company, which is part of the world air bus company.
In accordance with the new structure of the organization, the duties of deputy chairman of the board of Vladimir Lyutov include issues of architecture, construction, safety, new technologies and dogs.
one of them is a 25-meter pool near the Lokomotiv stadium, the Kazakhstan pool, and the Alatau sk.
the main requirement is that the applicant must be a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the main condition - she must have the citizenship of the republic of kazakhstan .
- 3,772 non-existent facilities in the amount of 18,994,034 thousand tenge, including 439 commercial facilities in the amount of 13,645,318 thousand tenge;
we take these projects with great responsibility. we select these projects very carefully .
Today, energy efficiency is a trend in the world economy, which has collected all technological and infrastructure aspects. now , energy efficiency - a trend of the world economy , which includes all aspects of technological and infrastructure development , modernization of economic diversification , growth of competitiveness and efficiency .
all these measures are being implemented for the functioning of the "lead-east gate," said the news agency.
The meeting discussed the issues of participation of the corporation in the development of the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan in the new economic conditions.
we have been working together for many years, the first strategy was adopted in 2007, the updated strategy retains such areas as human rights, the rule of law, youth and education, trade and investment, energy and transport, environment and water resources, common threats and threats, "he said.
During the event, the Secretary-General informed about the political, economic situation of the country and the main international initiatives of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan supports this project, but we look at it as pragmatic and practical, exclusively as an economic project that has no political background. kazakhstan supports the project and considers it as pragmatic economic project without a political component .
Currently, six officers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan serve in two missions in Western Sahara (minurso) and Côte d'Ivoire (unoci).
the purpose of the forum is associated with the transformation program of the Samruk-kazyna Foundation.
international army games are a unique competition in which members of the armed forces of the CIS countries will compete for the first time in field, air and sea skills ("tank biathlon," "air darts," "Caspian sea").
Representatives of permanent member states of the UN Security Council, including Great Britain, China, Russia and France, as well as sponsoring countries of the project, will take part in the celebration in the capital.
Shakhutdinov marat ersayynovich appointed first deputy secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of deputy secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
he is not far from us, "he said.
for each first-grader on September 1 on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. my homeland is Kazakhstan, "he said.
The Chagala kindergarten with 280 seats was built at the expense of the local budget under the Balapan program.
Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan keeps this issue under serious control, "S. Nyusupov said.
The Industrial Development and Industrial Safety Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan issues licenses.
During the visit, Askar Zhumagaliyev plans to meet with top managers of the world's largest nuclear energy companies - President and Chief Executive Officer of the Westinghouse Electric Company denny Roderick and President of cameco Tim Gitzel.
The main themes of the summit were regional and international cooperation, economic development, renewable energy, environmental protection.
the total construction cost is 10.82 billion tenge.
According to him, Kazakhstan has formed a system to combat terrorism and extremism.
Everyone likes the work of our workshop.
At the same time, according to the rector, it is necessary to train specialists for ee.
Baterek Holding also supported this project during the financing, providing an opportunity to attract the American company stewart engineers, inc., as a strategic investor.
Your state visit to Kazakhstan is significant for our country. your state visit is a special event for our country .
At these meetings, Egyptian ministers got acquainted with the innovations taking place in the domestic political life and economy of the country, as well as got acquainted with the new economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, carried out under the "Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms. "
Protocol on Conditions and Transitional Provisions for the Application of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of the Kyrgyz Republic of May 29, 2014, Certain international treaties that are part of the law of the Eurasian Economic Union and acts of the bodies of the Eurasian Economic Union in connection with the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, signed at a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in Moscow on May 8, 2015 (protocol on conditions and transitional provisions).
The Minister of Energy, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Investment and Development, Minister of Culture and Sports also spoke during the meeting. Mukhamediuly, akim of Astana a.zhaksybekov.
after graduating from a military school, I returned to Kazakhstan. i entered the military university .
this will be introduced from the new school year, "- said a.muhamedzhanov.
During the meetings, the ambassador drew attention to the political and economic reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan.
The quality of all products of kazplast companies, "strong formation" is very high, since they are produced by modern devices.
if a liter of gasoline is from 120 to 139 tenge, then the transition to gas will be 23 tenge. if today , a liter of gasoline costs from 120 to 139 tenge , then the gas will cost only 23 tenge .
this will increase the popularity of Kazakhstan's goods, "said Nadloc, chairman of the board of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content.
The company noted that the company has been operating in Kazakhstan for some time and our country is of interest to Rio Tinto.
nұrly sting. "
During the consultations, the parties widely discussed issues related to the state and prospects of bilateral political, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation, exchanged views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda, including the Syrian crisis, the Iranian nuclear program and the Middle East situation.
I recently met in New York with President of Kazakhstan Barack Obama, discussed issues of bilateral cooperation. recently , i was in new york and met with president barack obama , we discussed the issues of bilateral cooperation .
the center will operate on a one-call basis.
During the meeting, N.Nazarbayev and D.Zum discussed issues of interaction in the field of politics, trade, economic and investment spheres.
in 2014 - 76, 8%.
we have become authoritative at the international level.
I am grateful for the help in opening the sewing workshop, "said the entrepreneur.
such a proposal was made during the work on legal issues of the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
According to him, the share of the capital in the country's GDP has tripled, the volume of investment has increased 16 times.
The state program of industrial and innovative development was included in all strategic documents of Kazakhstan, without training personnel of a new format, its implementation is impossible. state program of industrial-innovative development has been included in all strategic documents of kazakhstan , and the implementation is impossible without new professionals .
memorandum between the Swiss company relart sa and railcast systems LLP on the production of spring holders (terminals) included in the rail locks w.
ground forces fighters have to demonstrate their ability to fire from all types of standard weapons and tank weapons within 6 days, and platoon commanders have to demonstrate their fire control skills in conditions as close as possible to combat and rapidly changing conditions.
machinery and equipment (30.2% of the total imports of the EAEU countries), metals and products from them (17.9%), mineral products (14.2%), chemical products (13.3%), animal and plant products, finished food products (12.3%) are most imported from the EAEU countries.
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev touched upon the issues of industrialization of the country and the implementation of the project "Nұrly zhol."
the potential of national and transnational companies is hardly exploited. the capacity of national and multinational companies is almost never used .
Technopark Algorithm LLP, the share implemented - 31.59%, the owner of the share - the "center of engineering and technology transfer," the initial price - 262 743 844 tenge, the amount of the guarantee contribution of the share is 15% of the initial price, but not more than 30,000 aces.
Of these, 63 people are employed in permanent jobs, 118 for paid community service, 17 for youth practice, 52 for temporary employment.
construction and control, compliance with standards, capacity development, training of students, specialists (installers, builders).
On behalf of our students and Kazakhstan, I express my gratitude to the faculty. on behalf of our students , on behalf of kazakhstan , i would like to thank the academic staff .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusipov, First Deputy Akim of Pavlodar region took part in the event. Deputy Chairman of the Board of kaznex invest JSC Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Kazakhstan Association of Mechanical Engineering Timurlan Altayev, responsible employees of state institutions and national companies, deputy of the Bundestag on the German side johannes Zelle, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Leipzig wolfgang topf, as well as more than 60 representatives of economic and business circles of Saxon land.
Kazakhstan today is a full member of the international archival council. nowadays kazakhstan is a full member of the international council on archives .
the first is special climbing training.
for multinational Kazakhstan, it is very important to fulfill two factors - the ethnic node and the cultural environment. for multinational kazakhstan there are two most important things : ethnic core and culture .
The exhibition provides for 3 directions: "fire energy," "water energy," "air energy."
Georgian, Iranian, Russian, Belarusian, Armenian, Azerbaijani, Afghan, Lithuanian and Chinese markets.
In 2015, the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture under the Entrepreneur program financed 9 projects worth 31.1 million tenge.
Thus, we are increasing jobs and preserving our finances in the economy of Kazakhstan, "said the chairman of the board of Nadloc.
The interlocutors of the Special Representative of the President of Kazakhstan noted the contribution of the country and President Nursultan Nazarbayev to nuclear disarmament around the world, the creation of conditions of mutual respect, trust and support in the Central Asian zone, integration initiatives and innovative steps in the political and economic life of the Eurasian continent.
In order to improve the system of social protection of persons with disabilities, improve the effectiveness of rehabilitation services, take appropriate measures to ensure their access to work, the environment, transport, information and communication, taking into account the specific needs, the bill amends 24 legislative acts, including 4 codes.
we also work with the non-governmental industry. we also work with non-governmental sector .
The goal of EXPO-2017 is the future of energy. the goal of the expo-2017 - energy of the future .
the plan of the nation - 100 steps of strategy-2050 "and the entry of our country into 30 developed countries of the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the Ukrainian president for his support.
at the meeting, the bill "On guaranteed transfer from the National Fund for 2016-2018" was also approved.
the issues on the international agenda of our countries are similar.
full transfer from the National Fund "in the amount of 900 billion tenge.
the organization aims to create a common and indivisible security space in Asia.
N.Nazarbayev drew attention to the new infrastructure program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future."
the social infrastructure of the Tupkaragan region is improving every year. every year the social infrastructure of tupkaragan district is improving .
a small town was created for them to relax and eat, "says the construction director of orda glass ltd LLP.
According to the chairman, the constitutional values and provisions of the main law of our country are contained in the political, legal decisions of the President of Kazakhstan, in the system of state control, primarily in the strategy "Kazakhstan-2030" and the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the annual messages of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan (1996) in the Concept of the formation of the state unit, (2010) doctrine of national unity and other formulations and state programs.
he also noted that Pakistan wants to expand cooperation with Kazakhstan and the countries of central Asia.
in the Sairam district, residents visited the golden nomad garment factory on Pyramid-777 LLP.
For the first time in Kazakhstan, your company will conduct a comprehensive coal treatment. your company will be the first in kazakhstan to carry out complex processing of coal .
this year, out of 100 companies, 5 were in the field of agriculture, 26 - processing, 57% - services. this year , 5 of 100 companies have been presented in agriculture , 26 - in the manufacturing industry and 57 % - in the service sector .
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev attaches priority to ensuring stability and security in our region.
we see two main tools for the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iran. we consider two main tools to build up cooperation between kazakhstan and iran .
Kazakhstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
15.07.2015 561211 copies of textbooks and educational and methodological complexes worth 459 million 483 thousand tenge (82.6%), as well as printing houses: atamura - 77.7%; Almaty - 100%; dream-pv - 100%; school - 77.7%.
in Kazakhstan in recent years, the first steps have been implemented - the "Nұr zhol" program, which provides for access to a new economic field.
this is the development of the Kostanai business and the creation of new workplaces. This supports city business, producers and create new jobs, "he stressed.
oil (nmg) produced 2,722 thousand tons (111 thousand barrels per day), which is in 2014 thousand tons (95 thousand barrels per day) or 4% more compared to the same period in 4 years.
children are our future, "said Aigul Nurkina.
The project cost is 5.4bn. tenge.
the heads of the plants signed relevant memorandums of cooperation with Azerbaijan Railways JSC, Georgian Railways JSC, Belarusian Railway MU, Uzbek Railway MP, Kyrgyz Railway National Company and Rokhi Ohani Tochikiston MU.
According to the minister, by the end of the year it is planned to use all funds.
over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has experienced a difficult, historical period, "said R. Sarsembayev.
As reported, the construction of the facility began in the early summer of this year.
We are also privatizing to attract more effective management, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for business development, including for foreign companies, "said the head of the region," I propose to establish close socio-economic cooperation. kazakhstan has created all the conditions for business , including foreign companies , i propose to establish closer economic and social cooperation .
The Belarusian President also wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, happiness and well-being, new successes in his responsible activities.
For us, it is necessary to conclude agreements with important countries, including EU countries. however , without wasting time , we conclude bilateral agreements with countries important for us , particularly with the eu .
I wish everyone good luck, health and career growth, "he said.
The heads of developing countries participated in the round table on strengthening South-South cooperation within the framework of the UN Development Programme after 2015 and chaired by the President of China Xi Jinping, where the Kazakh delegation expressed its vision of the state and prospects of cooperation among developing states.
He added that "economic integration should have zero result."
in addition, bilateral meetings were held with the leadership of the well-known German concern metro cash & carry, as well as the volkswagen group.
this is a vital issue, "he said.
I am in Kazakhstan 5-8 times a year. every time i visit kazakhstan , i see a hospitable land .
successful cooperation between our countries was noted by the leaders of the countries. "
g-global, Astana economic forum, annual congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
Of the 200 teams that submitted applications throughout Kazakhstan, only 90 of the applicants passed, who presented projects "new energy," "energy efficiency," "energy conservation."
he thanked the ministry for supporting such an important project, spoke about the company's activities in Kazakhstan over the past year and informed about the beginning of exploration work.
Askar-mom remained as chairman of the board of "ktzh" uk. "
The head of state arrived in Paris.
One of them, "i love astana," "khan tent," was built in the park of lovers.
T.Elwood noted the priority of cooperation with Kazakhstan in the foreign policy strategy of Great Britain in Central Asia.
- smiles, kokshetau, diamonds, capital.
the first stage is the "professional" competition.
distributors considered issues of interaction within the framework of regional and international organizations.
ekkdb will provide funds of $150 million for 8 years and the same amount of loans for 5 years to the syndicate of commercial banks citibank, mizuhobank, ltd, société générale, sumitomitsuibankingcorporation, thebankoftokyo-mitsubishiufj, ltd.
According to the head of state, this is a great support for citizens of Kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of the year, the national holding Kazagro has allocated 91.6 billion tenge for lending to small and medium-sized businesses in the agricultural sector of the country.
nuclear power is an important area of our cooperation.
The price question is calculated according to all standards. the price issue is to comply all standards .
Representatives of all state bodies of Kazakhstan, experts of eidu take part in the meeting.
It is necessary to monitor the law on state symbols of Kazakhstan, "said I. Adyrbekov.
today our area is developing. our district is developing .
I support the n.nazarbayev initiative. i support the initiative of nursultan nazarbayev .
A number of projects planned for construction in the capital were also presented to Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we discussed it at all levels.
in 2014 - 4,018 (16.7%).
The Lebanese minister expressed confidence in the "great future of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
and wished the head of state and the people of Kazakhstan well-being and well-being.
the program of forced industrial and innovative development adopted in recent years is associated with the preparation of people's economic mechanisms for Kazakhstan to join the world trade organization and the development of socio-economic methods, the expert said.
participants in the meeting discussed the situation in world politics, the economy and international security.
The event will be attended by about 100 companies from all regions of the country. around 100 companies from all regions of the country participated in today 's event .
According to the chairman, in recent years Kazakhstan has changed the structure of attracting investments.
The commission included representatives of the national economy, investment and development, Baiterek holding, the national anti-corruption movement Vozrozhdenie, and the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
"- said the captain of the team" astana pro team "vincenzo nibali.
this is a revaluation indicator that occurred after the weakening of the national currency, "he said.
as part of the state program "Nұrly zhol" all regions of Kazakhstan will be connected by modern routes.
Thanks for the warm welcome. thank you for the warm welcome .
this is a very important issue. this is a very important issue at the moment .
the Turkic branch is very important for this, "said the head of state.
The concept of "target indicator" is also introduced and the comments "result indicator," "final result" are supplemented, the minister added. "
an officer is primarily an ability, then a profession. being officer - is a vocation first , then profession .
this should be used, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
they live in a common space and by a common law. they live in a common territory and follow the common law .
the forum brought together many historians, philologists and orientalists of Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, China, Turkey, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.
this is the capital, diamonds, akmola, zko, karaganda, sko and eye, "said A. Rakhmetulin.
new times are coming, new projects and tasks are emerging, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev."
Capital Management JSC and veolia water solutions & technologies have signed a memorandum on the implementation of an infrastructure project in the Mangistau region.
I fully support this competition.
he noted that under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has become a "channel of dialogue" between Europe and Asia, which is also an important moment for representatives of the business community.
finance, telecommunications, construction, energy and transport.
At the end of July 2015, time deposits amounted to 8085.5 billion tenge.
Washington is also a symbol of life, the capital is the power of independent Kazakhstan, "the ambassador said.
As part of the new budget policy, we carry out all our tasks. within the new budget policy all the measures will definitely be performed .
During the meeting, the head of state noted that such meetings and meetings are necessary for the further development of bilateral relations.
this meeting will discuss important issues of archival business. this meeting provides an opportunity to discuss topical issues in the archives .
This will require 134 million tenge a year, "he said.
In 2014, 167 thousand people were employed as part of the ZhKZ 2020 program.
Kostanay will host the exhibition "Polish Diplomats in Kazakhstan in 1941-1945."
the Government has developed new approaches to alienating and privatizing the economy.
world champion maxim rakov (rotterdam, 2009) silver medalist of the World Cup (Rio de Janeiro, 2011), champion of the Asian Games Eldos Estimates (incheon, 2014) Alexander Podrakova, who took part in the Olympic Games (London, 2012), Gulzhana Isanov (Beijing, 2008 and London, 2012), etc. athletes.
this is our position on this issue, "he stressed.
The conference program is devoted to international cooperation on the transition to a green economy, the transfer of advanced green technologies and practices, the development of green business, institutional and technical innovative incentives, "he said.
deposits in national currency amounted to 3328.4 billion tenge, deposits in foreign currency amounted to 4757.1 billion tenge.
this document is signed by the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, Georgia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Ukraine.
gold medals were received by Nikolai Vavilov (42 kg), Irina forge (56kg) and expensive sarajol (100 kg).
According to him, Kazakhstan has a high agro-industrial potential.
Speaking about the priorities in the legislative work in the Parliament of Kazakhstan, Tokayev said that the Senate will soon complete the main stage of work on legislative support for the large-scale plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing five institutional reforms of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the meeting discussed innovations and problematic aspects of the law "On state control and supervision in the Republic of Kazakhstan," as well as issues of implementation of the project "unified register of subjects and objects of inspections."
we entered the harvesting campaign. we start a harvesting campaign .
12.5 billion tenge.
after this meeting, we will work normally, that is, provide guaranteed assistance. after this meeting , i can assure you we will work in the same direction , will continue to provide the guaranteed medical assistance to people .
It is noted that out of 189 economies in the World Bank's doing business ranking, Kazakhstan ranks 17th in terms of "taxation," "protection of minority investors" - 25th place, "registration of an enterprise" - 55th place.
As previously reported, "on the establishment of borders of the border strip, quarantine strip and border zone" In accordance with the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of April 16, 2014 No. 356, many border tourist facilities entered the border zone for 25 km or also the territories of the border administrative regions of the PRC, where the border regime with the established procedure for departure, temporary entry, residence or movement applies.
The international program enactus (formerly sife-students in free enterprise) brings together youth leaders, leading businessmen and active teachers for effective interaction in the field of youth entrepreneurship and social projects.
memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the Italian company tenaris ";
During the visit, the Secretary of State got acquainted with the halls "archeology," "history," "gold," "modern art," as well as the exhibitions "historical memory and rehearsal," organized in honor of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, and "national still life," dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
sheet glass fell in price by 6.8%, cement, lime and ganysh - by 6.3%, steel webs - by 4.7%, rods and rods - by 3.6%, commercial concrete - by 1.3%.
the exhibition presents sections "made in Kazakhstan," "smart astana," where existing enterprises are represented.
I found the answers for myself.
In the new 9-story houses there will be one-, two- and three-room apartments, "the report said.
This institution was built under the state program "100 schools-100 hospitals."
this document will be the result of our many years of fruitful action and will become a program of future cooperation, "said Xi jinping.
36% of this plan.
I think there are not many states in the world that offer such conditions for investors, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in 2014 - 3,797 (14.5%).
k. N. in two specialties: the production of building materials, products and equipment "and" space technology and technology, "said A. Taltenov.
recent years have been very favorable for the development of science. recent years have been a turning point for the development of our science .
Due to changes in the project indicator, the need for users of natural resources to report on the contract for the income of solid minerals in the amount of 20 percent is eliminated. the amendments include the liberation of subsoil users for mining of solid minerals contracts from the obligation to negotiate changes in production volumes in the range of 20 % of the project indicators - they will not have to run on small changes .
this visit and the negotiations held during it raised cooperation between our countries to an even higher level, "the head of state said.
Today, this sport is developing in Kazakhstan, over time, new clubs will appear in the capital, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in general, Kazakhstan approved 3,255 applications of agricultural producers for financing under lending programs in the amount of 66.6 billion tenge (2,242 applications, 58.3 billion tenge), financed 3,220 applications for 66.1 billion tenge (2,242 applications, 58.3 billion tenge).
in Kazakhstan, the group participates in the following projects: joint venture Euroopter Kazakhstan Engineering (assembly, maintenance of helicopters and retraining of helicopter specialists), cooperation with "Kazakhstan space trips" (creation of an assembly and test complex and work with remote sensing and communications satellites).
We are currently engaged in improving the legislation for doing business, so the experience and assistance of your group in this process is very important for us, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
regional selections finished, but the winners of the bala turkvizyon-Kazakhstan semi-final are waiting for active preparation and the opportunity not to defend the country's honor in a big match between 20 Turkic-speaking countries in Istanbul.
the parties discussed issues of cooperation in the field of energy, investment and participation in EXPO-2017.
proof that Mexico will open an embassy in the capital this year, and we are ready to support this, "said E. idrissov.
According to him, a limit was chosen for the "Asian car," the indicator of the "saryark of the auto industry" was higher, the indicator of "angromashholding" decreased.
after getting acquainted with them, we will make concrete decisions, "said the head of the region.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the State of Israel Dulat Orazbekovich Kuanyshev to the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Cyprus;
The embassy also took part in the business forum "Kazakhstan - the economic and cultural partner of Mexico in Central Asia: prospects and opportunities."
He also expressed his best wishes to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and assured that the appointment of the first Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Myanmar will contribute to the expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation in bilateral and multilateral formats.
Kazakhstan is the new burning star of central Asia. kazakhstan is a developing country in central asia .
Deputy Secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of the Secretariat of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
as practice shows, this is very important for the business. experience shows that it is very important for business , " ye . dossayev has said .
All expenditures are included in the budget.
this year it is planned to collect 16.2 million tenge.
He also noted that improving the quality of human capital based on the standards of the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is the main feature of this stage of the modernization of the education system under the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation.
Agreement on the Accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, Protocol on Amendments to Certain International Treaties Included in the Law of the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, in connection with the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, as well as the treaty of the Kyrgyz Republic on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014 in connection with the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, On the ratification of certain international treaties included in the law of the Eurasian Economic Union, and the Protocol on Conditions and Transitional Provisions for the Application of Acts of the Organs of the Eurasian Economic Union. "
This year, as part of this exhibition, we entered into a cooperation agreement with the Russian company Phosagro. "
With our support this year, the company will take part in the Uzbek exhibition, as well as the company's products will be presented in Omsk and Novosibirsk, "said Askar Arynov, managing director of kaznex invest JSC.
According to the minister, the peculiarity of this project is that it introduces new coal processing technologies and produces fuel of the Euro-5 category.
and the main thing is that new sectors of the economy lay the foundation for the development of cultural studies, media engineering, "he added.
this is a new ideology of the economic sphere of countries within the framework of the silk road. "
The family also received appeals on nutrition, social security, housing, "he said.
It's nice that in Kazakhstan Japanese citizens are developing their activity, "he said.
The Turkic Council includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Turkey.
According to the head of government, Kazakhstan is interested in improving cooperation in the field of education.
the rule of law in five institutional reforms. "
It should be noted that Kazakhstan is a multidisciplinary sanatorium.
ii abdullah noted the importance of strengthening bilateral ties and thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his invitation to Kazakhstan.
- contract between Astana lrt LLP and a consortium of Chinese companies.
popularization of this tradition around the world, "says the appeal of Irina Bokova.
we have accumulated considerable experience in joint work in the field of information technologies, the oil and gas industry, agriculture, nuclear energy and pharmaceuticals, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
as you know, this exhibition was in a number of cities around the world in Stockholm (Sweden), Dornbirn (Austria), Brussels (Belgium).
During the meeting, the ministers discussed a number of issues of expanding cooperation between the two countries.
the first - stimulating investment, the second - changing the business climate, the third - "yellow page rules," said the vice minister.
This work was started in April of this year.
In turn, 172 entities were supported in 3 tranches (50 billion tenge).
the couple is proud of the presence of representatives of world and traditional religions at the congress and supports the Kazakh government, organized in the name of harmony and peace, "he said.
suppliers of raw materials necessary for the production of disinfectants are leading European chemical concerns, such as akzonobel, basf, huntsman, clariant.
tomatoes in taldykorgan by 20% from 250 to 200 tenge/kg, 21% in smoking from 284 to 225 tenge/kg, in Kyzylorda 13% from 150 to 130 tenge/kg, 12% in whitewash from 285 to 250 tenge/kg, in Almaty 12% from 183 to 161 tenge/kg, in Uralsk 19% fell from 220 to 178 tenge/kg and 10% - from 111 to 100 tenge/kg.
According to him, 2017 will be a unique opportunity for further socio-economic development of the city, therefore, the share of Kazakh content in these facilities is one of the priority areas of Almaty city policy.
According to him, the new economic policy requires a new financial and credit policy in today's economic conditions.
125 points were got by 5 pupils: graduate of the Kazakh classical gymnasium No. 45 of the city of Erdosov gulnaza-Taraz, school lyceum No. of 59 g. The graduate of a linguistic gymnasium "Hope" and the graduate of boarding school for exceptional children with three languages of training of Laura an abdasimowa-eye of the tyulkubassky area, Yakovleva of Anastasius Vladimir - the Almaty lyceum No. 90", - it is said in the statement.
due to this program, we acquired modern equipment for cutting, "he said.
this is our national treasure.
together with the Clean Technology Fund, a project is being prepared to expand the capacity of the wind farm by 50 MW, which will be financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, "said A. Satkaliev.
The Kazakh delegation included white "damu," white "ktz express," white "kaztransgaz," white "male Kazakhstan center," representatives of the Astana city administration for investment and development, etc.
all projects are aimed at the development of metallurgy, the production of building materials, the development of infrastructure and energy, mechanical engineering. all the projects are aimed to develop metallurgy , construction materials , infrastructure , energy and engineering .
In turn, we choose areas where you can work tightly, "said D. Akhmetov.
for this, tourists come to Kazakhstan.
Note that this project is being implemented by the Development Fund as part of the Business Roadmap 2020.
and participated in the trilateral meeting Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran.
then Nursultan Nazarbayev changed to another.	it was nursultan nazarbayev .	1,57
In 2015 alone, the company reduced the volume of investments by almost 130 billion tenge.
962 million tenge will be allocated annually for the development of educational programs in 2015-2017, he said.
production capacity of 1 thousand units per year, 1 thousand crosses, 75 thousand railway wheels.
The head of state instructed to prepare preparations for the anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate at the central and regional levels in a timely manner. the head of state instructed to timely prepare for the celebration of the anniversary of the kazakh khanate , both at central and regional level .
The experience of the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu) was studied in the development of the plan.
According to the organizers, the project "big state-big family" is designed to become popular.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the synergy of the "Nұrly zhol" and "new silk road" programs opens up new opportunities for strengthening strategic cooperation between the two countries.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan touched upon the issues of countering terrorism and extremism, the development of green technologies, as well as the transfer of the party's headquarters to Asia.
We will implement the formation of an open labor market, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
The Minister of Culture and Sports noted that the festive events will be held in the capital and on the scales.
In the future, the plant will produce 25 tons of gold and 50 tons of silver, which is expected to be achieved in 2019, "Zhanar Rakhimova, deputy director for economics and finance at Mining Gold LLP, said in an interview with strategy2050.kz.
According to him, in previous forums "astana invest" social projects are not so widely represented.
In addition, it is important for Kazakhstan to participate in the implementation of the Chinese program "one belt, one road."
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of expanding trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation, exchanged views on the main aspects of regional and international security.
the top five included Azerbaijan - $4.4 billion, Turkmenistan - $3.2 billion and African countries: zambia - $2.5 billion, Ethiopia - $1.2 billion. in the top five there are also azerbaijan - 4.4 billion dollars , turkmenistan - 3.2 billion dollars , and africa : zambia - 2.5 billion dollars , ethiopia - 1.2 billion dollars .
Kyrgyzstan is an important foreign trade partner of Kazakhstan. kyrgyzstan is an important trade partner of kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan is making every effort for the successful holding of the exhibition, "the Minister noted.
The Head of State also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments"
In general, according to the results of 2015, 94 km of Almaty-Taldykorgan roads were put into operation, uninterrupted movement of vehicles on one lane from Almaty to Taldykorgan was ensured.
During drilling, various methods of intensification and drilling are used, including for obtaining more complete geological information about the structure of productive coal seams for the first time in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, drilling is used, giving pneumatic flow up to 600 meters.
park of lovers art park
With these measures, we will complete our chairmanship, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this day is important for all of us.
To implement the instructions of the leaders of the two countries to bring the indicator of bilateral trade to $40 billion by 2020, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan proposed to consider the possibility of creating a special working group to increase the volume of mutual trade and adopt a corresponding road map.
The meeting was held with the participation of the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the chairman of the committee on international affairs, defense and security, as well as the head of the subgroup "introduction of the open government" of the working group on the formation of the state, obliged to report to the National Commission for Modernization on the implementation of the National Plan - 100 concrete steps.
ethnopark student park
this is a sign of our support for integration with Turkic countries.
in our country there is an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan that has justified its direction, "he said.
this experience was very important for us, and now we are considering joining the Kern group, "the minister said.
in addition, we have mastered international experience.
On June 4, 1992, new state symbols of independent Kazakhstan were approved: the national flag, coat of arms and anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We have great opportunities for business development, "said Khamzaev.
during the negotiations, we identified concrete measures to mitigate the effects of problems in the world economy. during the negotiations , we have identified a set of specific measures to mitigate the problems of the world economy .
Extraordinary and plenipotentiary post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, including the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Iraqi Republic, the Lebanese Republic, the Palestinian State;
in Kazakhstan today there is a decrease in the number of registered cases of suicide, a total of 3,506 cases of suicide were registered in 2013, of which 292 were among minors, in 2014 these figures were 3,124 and 192, respectively, among minors.
Kazakhstan was formed as an independent state, today we are united with a common goal. today , kazakhstan has become an independent state , today we are united by common goals .
this year, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan was also born. the assembly of people of kazakhstan was created in this memorable year .
The core of our work was the preservation of continuity and the consistent implementation of the agreements adopted earlier, "the Prime Minister said.
the project is divided into two stages.
The meeting discussed issues of strengthening bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, transport, transit, scientific, technical and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
The event was attended by representatives of the coalition and g-global development for the green economy, the Security Council "Akbota," the UN development program in Kazakhstan, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
Today, Kazakhstan is implementing a large infrastructure program worth $14 billion over 3 years. kazakhstan has a major infrastructure program totaling 14 billion dollars over three years .
they are engaged in animal husbandry not for the first year, but for 7-8 years.
the introduction of special taxation for taxpayers, the implementation of transportation through international sea vessels registered in the register of sea vessels will lead to a decrease in the corporate method of taxation by 100 percent, "said E. Dosaev.
out of 85,856 applications for testing (94.3%).
I am sure that university graduates will become professionals, "said the head of state.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko visited the central concert hall "Kazakhstan," the library of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the state opera and ballet theater "Astana Opera."
I think this is only the beginning of our cooperation, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In the period June 2014 - October 2015, 98 objects are subject to privatization.
In general, in 2015, with the support of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs, 32 projects worth 104 million tenge were implemented, of which 18 were projects - 2020, "house 6," the program "3 projects" entrepreneur "and" kulan, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Aktobe region nurlybek mukanov.
production facilities of Kaztransoil group of companies are located in Karaganda, Pavlodar, South Kazakhstan, North Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Mangistau, West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Almaty, Aktobe and East Kazakhstan regions of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of the eurozone, central Asia, scientists and international experts take part in its work.
including the samruk-treasury, baiterek, kazagro companies.
During the meeting, issues of trade, economic and investment cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and a number of states, civil aviation, and the entry of "qatar investment authority" into the "kazakh infrastructure fund" were considered.
the consequences of the economy and security issues cannot require adaptation to new conditions, inadequate development.
In 2015, housing construction continues as part of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020."
However, this is due to the economic capabilities of the state and the political priorities of the country, "the president said.
the Australian company provides full funding for state geological research and further exploration of the subsoil and is considering the construction of ore centers and enrichment plants in the amount of $500 million in the event of a commercial find.
we're not asking for anything in London. we do not ask anything from london .
this is a very good strategic program.
the event was very appropriate. this measure is sensible .
geographically, Kazakhstan is very comfortable, "said the leader of the nation.
Kazakhstan needs institutional reforms. institutional reforms are needed to kazakhstan .
During the meeting topical issues of interaction of Kazakhstan with the international federation of judo and prospects of development of this sport in the republic were discussed.
in turn, b. He familiarized the participants with the events held within the framework of Almaty - the Capital of Islamic Culture 2015, as well as the efforts of our country to popularize the Islamic historical and cultural heritage and contribute to the development of dialogue between religions and civilizations.
11 people from specialized fire departments of cities of families, rides, zyryans, families after a month of theoretical training on the basics of orientation on the ground, transportation of victims in various ways, organization of crossings through mountain rivers, behavior in the mountains.
trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Turkey for 7 months of this year amounted to $1.2 billion, the report said.
During his visit to China, the head of the national nuclear company Askar Zhumagaliyev met with the general director of the Chinese state nuclear corporation (cnc) qian Zhimin.
As part of the Agribusiness 2020 state program, three more people have been expanded and employed. "
It should be noted that 437 projects totaling 36 billion tenge have been signed in North Kazakhstan region since the beginning of implementation of the "Business Roadmap 2020" program.
in Kazakhstan, this task is carried out by a national accreditation center.
the head of state signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Lithuanian Republic on the readmission of persons."
this means the meaning of "industrialization and economic growth."
in particular, he informed about the amazing construction of the "Khan's roof," the uniqueness of the "Palace of Peace and Harmony," as well as "one of the most beautiful opera houses in the world - the" metropolitan opera. "
Since July 1, 2015, in 9 courts of Almaty: alatau, freedom, zhetysu, honey, nauryzbay, turkisib, No. 2 diamonds, auez district No. 2 and specialized interdistrict economic courts of Almaty, together with the Supreme Court and the board of commercial lawyers "kazakhstan bar association."
among the commissioned projects of Akmola Wheat LLP (Kokshetau) - production of cereals and oilseeds; " gold dan "white (Ishim district) - 24.6 thousand tons of grain and oilseeds and performs acceptance, storage, cleaning of the granary, drying and shipping;" Channel Power Station LLP (Makinsk) is a granary with an expanded capacity of up to 10 tons; " Rinar LLP (Atbasar) - 12 thousand tons of jazz; " homeland "(Celinograd district) with a silage capacity of up to 20 thousand tons;" pegasus "- cereals and oilseeds with a capacity of 20 thousand tons.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the positive impact of the capital on the social and economic life of the country.
thus, the volume of revenues to the state budget amounted to 629.1 billion tenge.
The opening ceremony was attended by representatives of the naval forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, participant of the 2012 World Cup, international sailing regatta, master of sports in kitesurfing Alexander Parkhomenko, bronze medalist of the Russian Federation in sailing Sergey Voronov and other athletes.
Recall that the "National Agency for the Development of Local Content" nadloc "is the coordinator of the action" Made in Kazakhstan. "
the third time 32 objects were released - 28%, the fourth time - 24%, 5 times - 10 objects - 8%. thus , the third time 32 objects are presented - 28 % , in the fourth time 27 objects - 24 % , the fifth time 10 objects - 8 % .
in short, the leader is a modernizer. "
including in industry - 958, wholesale and retail trade, auto and motorcycles - 2,850, transport and warehousing - 794, education - 1,460, health and social services - 669, construction industry - 1,840 and 3,547 - other types of economic activity.
we are ready to develop a long-term and mutually beneficial partnership, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
- Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the PRC on cultural and humanitarian cooperation;
This action takes place in all regions of the country. the campaign takes place in all regions of our country .
the project for the construction of the plant is implemented with the support of a group of companies of the Baiterek holding, in particular with the participation of subsidiaries - the "investment fund of Kazakhstan" white (kick), the "development bank of Kazakhstan" white (kdb).
to this end, "reconstruction and expansion of drinking water and sewerage systems, structures in Kyzylorda until 2015." In total, construction and installation works in the amount of 3 billion 958 million 49 thousand tenge were carried out in the period from 2013 to 2014, in 2015 3 billion 617 million 279 thousand tenge were allocated for these works.
it will not be a budget, but a fund. it will be a fund , not the budget .
On August 23 of this year, according to the results of monitoring carried out by specialists of regional departments of the Committee for Control of Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities to contain prices for 200 items of medical products, there was no increase in the cost of these drugs in the country.
a successful party project "is an effective social ladder for young specialists.
we talked about the cooperation of two exhibitions when I met with the Expo-Milan head. when i met with head of the milan expo giuseppe sala , we talked about the cooperation between the two exhibitions .
given this, we expect great results from the work of your company, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
crane of the festival "We create the constitution."
we gathered to discuss its strategy, tasks, main work, as well as relations with government agencies, national companies, representatives of the business community.
During the event, government reports on the program of industrial and innovative development and "Nұrly zhol" were heard.
the first is who makes the decision. first - who works , and what work he carries out .
For Kazakhstan, cooperation with jiangsu province is of great importance. cooperation with jiangsu is very important for kazakhstan .
- Kazakhstan joined the World Trade Economic Organization.
As part of the start of the Air Cards 2015 contest, a private Aviamix air show is planned on August 2.
We are currently considering the creation of a national council of museums in Kazakhstan. we consider the possibility of creation of the national council of museums at the national museum of kazakhstan .
Managing Director of National Agency for Development of Local Content nadloc JSC adilkhan arystanov:
Kazakhstan is most open to the world market and other economies. kazakhstan opens to world markets and other economies .
As the Secretary of State noted, the main advantage of modernizing education, together with "100 concrete steps," is improving the quality of human capital based on the standards of member states.
The purpose of the conference is to discuss the development of regional cooperation, the political and economic advancement of women, the prospects for the development of the green economy, craftsmanship and participation in the international specialized exhibition Expo 2017.
this factor is very important for foreign investors.
It is noted that within 6 days, famous bloggers and representatives of the republican garden of the country will visit unique historical and cultural monuments located in the poet's homeland, as well as get acquainted with the development of tourist and sports clusters in the region.
Given the relevance of issues of qualitative development of tourism facilities, reflected in all program documents of the republic, this project will contribute to the creation of favorable conditions for travelers in the mountain forest zone "Kyzylaraya Valley," located 60 km from the village of Aktogay.
Tourism development is an important aspect of the State's activities. besides , other important aspect is the development of tourism .
It includes representatives of Kazakhstan, Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
During this time, the basis of all political and state structures was formed, "the expert said.
at the last meeting, it was decided to accept new members into the organization, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
President of Azerbaijan congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday.
the parties will discuss issues of trade, economic and investment cooperation.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic and investment spheres, cooperation between the two countries within the framework of international organizations, as well as topical issues on the international agenda were discussed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
the children were shown works of young artists, sculptors, graphic artists, designers in a new paint of the world.
The event will be held with the participation of the international business accelerator happyfarm together with the joint-stock company "National Infoquent Holding" Zerde "of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The three-day seminar will be attended by civil servants of the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the office of the Prime Minister, central and local executive bodies.
In turn, the yveta grigule, speaking about the successful development of cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan, noted that in the near future, the fruitful implementation of the plan of 100 concrete steps will contribute not only to the development of Kazakhstan, but also to strengthening relations with the EU countries.
these are investment projects, industrial and innovative development in Kazakhstan, participation in the infrastructure development of Kazakhstan within the framework of "Nұrly zhol."
48.4 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for the implementation of activities of the single-industry towns development program in 2012-2014.
To date, the budget of the chicken program has doubled and reached 1.5 billion tenge.
these are our basic industries: transport, mining and metallurgy, chemistry, petrochemistry. these are our basic industries : transportation , mining , chemical , petrochemical .
priests from all over the world gathered in the pyramid, "he said.
the whole style of music is important to us, but romanticism is very close to our spirit. music of all styles is important for us , but romanticism is particularly close to our soul .
This suggests that Kazakhstan is becoming an investment hub in the region, "the minister said.
The meeting discussed topical issues on the agenda: the commitment of the UK to support the goals of the memorandum of understanding between the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; support of the state program of education development in the Republic of Kazakhstan for implementation of the Address of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "100 concrete steps"; identifying the main current priorities and scope for reform that the UK needs to support over the next two years; " Development of the partnership programme and its funding status, Newton al-Farabi.
development of transport and logistics potential is very important for our countries, "N. Nazarbayev said.
in accordance with subparagraph 2) of paragraph 4 of Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan to convene a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 10 o'clock in June 2015 in Astana, the document says.
Attached to the document are international labour organizations, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Environment, Steam Development Programme, Steam Department of Public Information, Economic Commission for Europe, unep, escap, unesco, unfpa, steam tank, unicef, unido, disaster risk reduction offices, Office of Steam Drugs and Crime, unops, UN Regional Centre for Primary Diplomacy for Central Asia, paired volunteers, paired women, representative of 21 organizations in the system of the world health organization.
The project cost amounted to about 17.6 billion tenge.
today we celebrate the launch of another socially significant object. today we launch an important social facility .
In the 21st century, there is no alternative to dialogue on political, economic, cultural, spiritual directions. in the xxi century , there is no alternative to dialogue in all fields : political , and economic , cultural and spiritual .
According to him, investment projects implemented primarily by United Chemical Company LLP have been identified.
we are seeing a lot of work that kha does, "said V. Amelin.
this opens up wide opportunities for business, "the head of state said.
Also, young start-up entrepreneurs will present their business projects to the jury, as a result of which the 10 best projects will have the opportunity to take part in the competition of youth projects "Marathon of Business Ideas," which will be implemented in December this year.
attracting Tarnsul companies (tuk) is very effective. it is beneficial to involve transnational companies ( tncs ) .
We visited Kazakhstan on an official visit. we have come to kazakhstan for an official visit .
At the same time, world markets are opening for all countries of the world, "he said.
at 15:30 Astana time.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Mohammad Ghani discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in political, trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian, other areas.
The report notes that the allocated funds will be used for the construction of 101 units of road signs and their reconstruction, the construction of 16 units of footpaths from places of service for people with disabilities.
The head of holding "bi group" aidin rahumbayev, general director of atasu group of companies LLP marat dzhuman, chairman of supervisory board of maserbuild LLP erala sauranbaev confirmed their participation as social investors.
the total volume of investments in these projects will amount to 5.4 billion tenge.
The project provides for the consolidation of a special order from January 1, 2019 in relation to wholesale distributors to the form of storage of drugs, personnel, documentation system and the process of storage of drugs in order to ensure high quality of drugs.
you are implementing important development projects that you will not receive. you realized important projects for the development of almaty .
During the discussion, representatives of the Supreme Court informed the members of the Venetian delegation about the ongoing work to improve the mechanisms for selecting candidates for the post of judge in the framework of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 Concrete Steps - a Modern State for All."
Kazakhstan pays special attention to investment stimulation. kazakhstan pays much attention to investment incentives .
In January-August 2015, the volume of products (goods, services) in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning amounted to 34.3 billion tenge, the volume index for this period amounted to 102.5% compared to January-August 2014.
new housing was built in the Capital microdistrict.
We must share with the visitors to the congress, "he said.
During the meeting, the minister and the head of the ecu discussed the main areas of joint work within the organization.
The meeting was also attended by the First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration.
As the results of the competition in the regions showed, in 2015 the number of families participating in the national competition "Mereili Recesses" increased by 1.7 times (2015 -285, 2014 -1298).
One of the main instructions of the president is the development of small and medium-sized businesses. one of the main orders of the president - the development of small and medium-sized businesses .
the new book of Nursultan Nazarbayev differs from the previous one.
Construction here began from the beginning of this year. the construction began in summer , this year .
this is the traditional art of the struggle of our people. this kind of fight is traditional for our people .
On legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan the commission received 56,390 applications for legalization of real estate totaling 547.6 million tenge.
Today, participants are expected to arrive from Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Kostanay, Akmola, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan, Aktobe regions, as well as the capital and Almaty.
So, this year Kazakhstan rose from 53rd to 21st place in the indicator "registration of an enterprise" rating "doing business."
Also this year the repair of Satpayev avalanches in the amount of 297.413 million tenge will be carried out.
opening the customs border between our countries is a landmark event that creates new opportunities for the business of the two states, intensifying mutual trade. the opening of the customs border between the two countries is a significant event that will create new business opportunities between the two states , will revive mutual trade .
According to R. Oshakbaev, the Toyota company organized the collection of Toyota Fortuner in Kazakhstan, the project continues to develop.
Kazgermunai sp LLP (kgm), ccel (karazhanbasmunai white) and Petrokazakhstan Inc. "(pki), which is 0.3% more than in the same period of 2014.
The humanitarian direction of this health center and the need of more than 40 thousand people in treatment and recovery from the harmful effects of nuclear tests at the 730-year-old Semipalatinsk test site in Kazakhstan, Karaganda and Pavlodar regions were especially noted.
the meeting took place on the eve of the visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to France.
the main direction of our association is work in the social sphere. the hallmark of our association is social work .
The population of the country as of July 1 amounted to 17,541,2 thousand people, including urban - 9,967,2 thousand (56.8%), rural - 7,574,0 thousand people (43.2%).
The event was attended by Chairman of the Presidium of the Coalition for the Development of the Green Economy and g-global, Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aigul Solovyova, Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Local Content Nadloc kairat Bekturgen, management of the project "Made in Kazakhstan" Tazhibayev and President and "complete service" Abylhan Sarsarsenbayev.
Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan welcomes the active participation of Indian companies in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
The purpose of the event is to strengthen the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, consolidate within the framework of the policy of peace and harmony of the head of state N.A. Nazarbayev, explain the main directions of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps for all."
this is an important event for the whole of our country.
Summing up the round table, the Chairman of the Committee of Finance and Budget Rashit Akhmetov discussed the topical topics discussed on the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, and noted the issues of improving tax administration and optimizing preventive control measures in order to create favorable conditions for doing business.
one of them is the Ertargyn kindergarten.
Later, in accordance with Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of June 4, 2007 No. 337 "On additions to Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of January 20, 1998 No. 382" On professional and other holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "on June 4, the day of state symbols is celebrated in the republic.
I think the participation of British companies in this project will be very important, "said the head of state.
In December 2016, the Code "On Subsoil and Subsoil Use" will be adopted, which will contribute to improving the socio-economic situation in such areas as withdrawing from the shadow of artel production in socially disadvantaged regions, increasing the rating of investment attractiveness and attracting new technologies to exploration and production.
the representative of Unisef Yuri oksamitny drew attention to the good development of the health system in East Kazakhstan region, noting that the decrease in maternal and infant mortality over the past 5 years is 2 times a good indicator.
we are closer to them, let's establish such logistics, "he said.
economic policy is foreign and domestic. the economic policy is the foreign policy and vice versa .
Now we are facing important changes, "the head of state said.
and all this is the merit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
prospects for the development of bilateral cooperation, topical issues on the international agenda.
Kazakh and Belarusian leaders also discussed issues of bilateral cooperation.
the parties will discuss the upcoming trade, economic and investment cooperation.
Representatives of the Ministries of Internal Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Defense, Investment and Development, Governor's Office of Zhambyl region took part in the exercises.	the exercise is attended by the ministries of internal affairs , foreign affairs , defence , investment and development , the governor 's office of zhambyl region .	1,63
this year will begin in the capital, it will be implemented in 2016-2017 in other areas, "said the Altynbekov.
cucumbers in the capital by 13% - from 211 to 183 tenge/kg, in the shed 33% from 173 to 116 tenge/kg, with a growth of 25% from 224 to 168 tenge/kg, in Karaganda 18% from 176 to 145 tenge/kg, in Kostanay 14% from 175 to 150 tenge/kg, in kyzylorda 10% from 100 to 90 tenge/kg, 17% in whitewash from 300 to 250 tenge/kg, in Almaty 11% from 122 to 108 tenge/kg, in Uralsk 13% fell by 90 to 78 tenge/kg and by 33% - from 100 to 67 tenge/kg.
Also noted is the unique national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," the strategy of the "beam road," which includes anti-crisis measures in priority for the modernization of the country, as well as five institutional reforms that qualitatively update our state, and 100 concrete steps to implement them form the matrix of the new course.
we have studied our experience, European and international.
The next meeting will summarize the socio-economic interim results of 2015 and consider the main plans for the coming period, taking into account crisis trends in the world economy.
a number of large Japanese companies are actively working in Kazakhstan. a number of large japanese companies work actively in kazakhstan .
Nursultan Nazarbayev paid an official visit to the country with the Shinzo Abe Central Concert Hall "Kazakhstan," as well as the State Opera and Ballet Theater "Astana Opera."
we submit the following issues to the board. we bring the following recommendations to the council .
The first object was the Yubileiny stadium.
the third place went to the Korean.
the club's partners were leading research centers: the Chinese Academy of Modern International Relations, the German Council on Foreign Policy (dgap), the Russian Council on International Affairs and the Carnival Fund for International Peace.
Nazarbayev University has become a world-class educational institution, "the head of state said.
In addition, a tripartite memorandum on the development of the telecommunications industry in Kazakhstan will be concluded between the national agency for the development of local content "nadloc," the company "kaztehelectronics" and the company "avaya."
We thank the head of state and the National Bank for this decision. we are grateful to the president and the national bank for this decision .
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization will be an important step for our country.
we declare the vote closed, "said Thomas bach.
The company's net profit for the first half of 2015 amounted to 39 billion 427.6 million tenge, which is 49.2% higher than the same result of the first half of 2014, the report said.
Deputy Prime Minister emphasized the importance of implementing the instructions of the head of state to increase the growth of the well-being of citizens, as well as the use of all resources and opportunities for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
In grades 11-12, the subject "Kazakhstan in our time" was introduced.
He noted that not all companies in the domestic market are preserved.
including within tranche 1 - 112.99 projects worth 561 billion tenge; Within 2 tranches 262 projects worth 46.26 billion tenge; Within 3 tranches, 308 projects worth 40.52 billion tenge were financed, "the Baiterek holding said in a statement.
In November this year, we expect the arrival of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in Paris.
He noted that the draft labor code was designed to implement 100 concrete steps to implement the national plan - five institutional reforms (83 steps).
we look forward to the moment when the capital opens its doors to guests, "said the president of Eirastana St. Petersburg Foster.
According to the order of the Governor of Aktobe region, working groups have been created to organize information support "Plan of the Nation: 100 concrete steps," work is underway on information support, clarification of documents.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the German deputy about the foreign policy initiatives announced by the head of state in the framework of the 70th anniversary session of the UN General Assembly, which became the basis of the Kazakhstan's application for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, and familiarized with the main goals and objectives of the National Plan "100 steps," the new economic policy "Nұr path - the way to the future."
Head of the national nuclear company of Kazakhstan Askar Zhumagaliyev took part in the signing ceremony.
memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the Italian company italcementi group ";
For street crimes, the competent authorities adopted systematic measures, as a result of which crimes committed in public places decreased by 5%, robbery by 9.9%, and robbery by 3%.
According to the capital's Department of Economy and Budget Planning, since the beginning of this year, the vegetable storage facility of Tselinselmash LLP (storage volume of 2500 tons), the vegetable storage facility of Astana food storage LLP (storage volume of 2500 tons) and the storage complex of the class "a" Zernologics LLP "(32,730 places) have been put into operation.
Refined gold compared to January-June 2014 - 3 times, plastic doors, windows, door and window boxes, door thresholds - 2.3 times, thresholds of metal doors and doors, windows and their frames - 1.9 times, plastic pipes, tubes, hoses and hoses 28%, concrete, hanysh and cement products - 16.6% by 17.3%, preforms production by 9.6%.
If vehicles less than 3 years from the date of issue are imported by legal entities, they do not belong to individual vehicles and are subject to a vehicle type approval procedure.
Kazakhstan "and the Chinese" economic belt of the silk road, "and the Karakorym path contribute to the intensification of cooperation between states.
He also familiarized President Nursultan Nazarbayev with the concept of an "eternal country," famous international initiatives of Kazakhstan and a unique model of interethnic harmony.
we are opening new priorities of relations with Kazakhstan, including the potential of world leaders, the integration of customs application, "said tariq al-ansari.
In conclusion, the meeting participants supported the proposals of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration to extend the chairmanship of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Almaty process in 2016.
According to him, in February 2012, the edue received an official letter from the Republic of Kazakhstan with a request to consider the possibility of Kazakhstan joining the declaration on international investments and multinational enterprises and participating in the work of the investment committee.
The Kyrgyz leader thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the visit and fruitful cooperation, noting the leading role of Kazakhstan in central Asia.
- Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of India on defence and military-technical cooperation;
Currently, we are broadcast by the TV channels "Kazakhstan" and "kazsport."
joint work is carried out in the following important areas: security and regional cooperation, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, a new economic policy "beam path," Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, intensification of trade, economic and investment cooperation within the framework of EXPO-2017, military and scientific and technical cooperation, cooperation between law enforcement agencies.
All we are doing today is for your future: industrialization, "nұrly zhol," road construction, construction of a plant, housing, school - everything for you, "the head of state said.
the committee of finance and budget is determined by the main committee on the draft constitutional law "On the Astana International Financial Center."
The national team of Kazakhstan on the world stage was represented by the winners of the national championship worldskills Kazakhstan: anvar dauren (plaster and plaster work), Sergey belonosov (culinary business), nurlybek Mukhamediyars (welding work), adlet tokezhans (welding work), rope arman (masonry brick), granalir of the Bosynov genre (hairbek management).
Mayor of Almaty spoke about establishing feedback with the population, as well as actions aimed at ensuring further improvement of the socio-economic indicators of the city, including the beginning of developing a strategy for the development of the city until 2020.
there are 5 types of viral hepatitis of type a, b, c, d and e.
these are administrative fines, state duty, losses to the state, etc., "he said.
Before the accession of the city in this region, the main issue was the provision of drinking water, there were no clinics, only 6 public schools, 2 preschool institutions worked for 150 thousand residents, and the road transport structure was very poor.
about access to information. "
trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Japan is being strengthened. i want to emphasize the progressive deepening of trade and economic investment cooperation .
opening the meeting of the commission, Mr. Abdykalikova noted the special role of the "future" scholarship in the process of institutional reform of the country and noted the need to maximize the use of the potential of Bolashakovites to implement the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps to implement the five institutional reforms of the head of state."
As A.Aazantsev noted, this is an important event for the economic development of Kazakhstan.
we help trade within the region and in other regions. we promote trade within the region and between different regions .
sections "aikol," "385 ha" limestone, "about 300 ha" and 100 ha "kainarbulak," covering an area of ​ ​ 1700 ha.
In addition, the bill introduces a norm of compulsory employment in a specialty of at least three years after graduation from an educational institution to persons studying under a state educational order from January 1, 2017.
we implemented our investment project in the industrial park of the capital. we have implemented the investment project in the industrial park of astana .
The head of the national nuclear company of Kazakhstan will discuss with his colleagues the current state of the industry, the implementation of joint projects and topical issues of cooperation.
there are also prospects for the development of relations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During this time, we reduced the budget by 2.3 billion tenge.
2016 - Year of formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States; Congress of Education Workers and Teachers of CIS Member States; development of worldskills movement in the cis space; Provisions of the project of the network university of international spiritual education of CIS member States.
Thus, in the program of the kazenergy forum, joint events are planned with experts from the International Energy Agency (iea), the International Renewable Energy Agency (irena), the energy charter secretariat, the World Petroleum Council (wpc), the Society of Oil Engineers (spe).
During the meeting, the prospects for the development of the economy and trade, the participation of Sri Lanka in expo 2017 and support for the non-permanent representation of Kazakhstan in the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 were discussed.
next year, an international financial center will begin work in the capital. international finance centre will be operational in astana next year .
of which the owners of the golden college sign - 1143, the owners of the silver college - 1663, the "mother heroine" - 286, the "maternal glory" 1, 2, 3 degrees - 339, four or more children - 2578.
political dialogue between our countries is open and reliable.
The meeting discussed the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres.
all activities were carried out. all the activities have been carried out .
a good political dialogue has developed between our countries, which, of course, needs to be continued. our countries should continue good political dialogue .
I express my gratitude to the Kazakh people, government and head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev for the second meeting that the Syrians are holding in order to come to a single solution. we express our gratitude to the people of kazakhstan , the government of kazakhstan and personally president nursultan nazarbayev for this meeting and for the desire to help the syrian people , " r. badini said .
During the forum, 345 leading companies from 30 countries of the CIS, the European Union, Asia, which are part of the "1520 spaces," considered the development of the railway industry, as well as strengthening competition in connection with the new economic situation to modernize transport infrastructure, attract investment, and produce the latest rolling stock.
I was a participant in the "train" campaign of my Kazakhstan.
this project is financed by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan within the framework of the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019.
The meeting discussed the implementation of joint investment projects, as well as the company's participation in the infrastructure development of Kazakhstan under the Nұrly Zhol program.
Currently, 13 companies engaged in the production of metal products, metal structures, textile, steel gaskets, wall canopies, pillars and reinforced concrete products in the Karaganda region have signed memoranda on the supply of their products to the largest construction products in Kazakhstan.
7.6 billion tenge is allocated for the development of educational facilities, including 4.1 billion tenge from the republican budget and 3.5 billion tenge from the local budget. 7.6 billion tenge is provided for development of educational facilities , including 4.1 billion tenge from the republican budget , 3.5 billion tenge from the local budget .
According to the national company, during the meeting Akhmetzhan Yessimov spoke about the project, about the construction of the exhibition complex and about the goals of the international exhibition.
Recall that the exhibition EXPO-2017 will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10 on the theme "energy of the future."
The exhibition of the history of Kazakh law allows you to control the main stages of its development, in particular, from the "helmet of kasymkhan" to the "old way of yeshimkhan," seven statutes of the "tauke khan," "to the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adopted in 1995," said a researcher at the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, organizer of the exhibition Togzhan adilbekova.
Following the results of the forum, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between expo-2017 Astana and Vietnam's leading tourism company saigontourist.
we invited them to create a pavilion created in Kazakhstan. "
member of the universal postal union, a principal participant in international payment systems visa international and mastercard worldwide.
the launch of a new production line will be the second stage of the investment project of the Prommashcomplekt enterprise, in 2013 a complex for the production of interchange junctions and railway wheels was launched, "the report said.
9 projects with the participation of the state budget or 7.5%.
This year they launched a new production - the production of the drink "morning."
Kazakhstan's achievements on the world stage: the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, accession to the WTO, the holding of the international exhibition Expo-2017.
The interlocutors noted the importance of the final act of the Helskinka, committed 40 years ago, primarily to ensure international security in terms of the basic principles that should guide the States parties to the Ecu.
Within the framework of state and sectoral programs "Nұrly zhol," industrial and innovative development, "agribusiness-2020," "healthy Kazakhstan," "bdk-2020" 931 residents of the region were employed.
57 bills have already been prepared, 29 of which the government will submit to parliament on September 1, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is our contribution to the "eternal country," said A. Tuganova.
This year Kazakhstan's reform has become one of many countries of the world.
The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a foreign guest, is reforming the judicial system within the framework of the national plan "100 concrete steps - a modern state for all," which is being implemented at the initiative of Nazarbayev.
A bilateral meeting between Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin is scheduled today.
kameko "company with an official history in Kazakhstan.
decrease is registered in Aktobe, West Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Pavlodar and East Kazakhstan regions.
It should be noted that for the first time in the world, the Jkz satellite constellation will become fully integrated, multispectral and commercial and will consist of at least 16 spacecraft (8 optical and 8 radar satellites) flying in two orbital planes.
among the buyers of free products on the domestic market of Kazakhstan, on which contracts were approved: Ktzh Uk Ak LLP, Steel Yard Company, Trade Iron LLP, Industrial Company LLP, Sharif Metal LLC and others.
confirmation of edr ratings and priority loan 100% reflects the constant special status of the baiterek holding as a national management holding company, which is a state development institution owned by the Republic of Kazakhstan ("bbb + "/" a- "/forecast" stable ").
they noted that the "plan of the nation to implement five institutional reforms - 100 concrete steps" is based on the country's capabilities and is aimed at clearly defined goals, and the systematic achievement of these goals puts Kazakhstan among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
In 2015-2019, we plan to increase export sales to 25% of our total revenues, and thanks to the support of the state, the Baiterek holding and development institutions, we have the opportunity to plan an increase in product exports, "said Timur Kaltaev, general director of rg brands kazakhstan LLC.
our next step will be active integration with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
On November 4, 1999, the opening ceremony of the republican school named after Army General S. Nurmagambetov took place.
the presentation of the Kazakhstan stand aroused the interest of such companies as "e-on," siemensag "and others.
In 2015, the world focuses on ensuring that women have the opportunity not only to work, but also to breastfeed, to promote the orientation of employers towards family, children, parents and mothers, and to help working women continue to breastfeed.
It should be noted that in order to fulfill the strategic objectives of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" and the institutional reform of the "Nation of the United Future," the law "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts on issues of culture and historical and cultural heritage" was adopted.
Kazakhstan is ready to make all efforts and resources for global development, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Despite the sunny weather, the personnel of the 1st motorized rifle battalion, including three motorized rifle companies, a mortar battery and a fire support company, visited the Izendi training range, located 45 km from the military unit, and sent the necessary military equipment to the indicated area.
In different years Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan take part in the forum. over the years , the forum was hosted by russia , belarus , kazakhstan , the ukraine , tajikistan , and turkmenistan .
over the past 5 years, imports have increased by 45% and amounted to more than $4 billion a year, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Speaking to the participants of the meeting, Abdikalikova noted that the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state, the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" provides for a radical reformatting of the work of state and public institutions.
During the meeting, it was noted that the concrete step "100" is not only a response to internal and global challenges, but also a plan for the nation to become one of the 30 competitive states in the new historical conditions.
this issue should be under the special control of the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this year it is planned to collect 16.2 million tenge.
Today, three major project participants are registered: Chem-plus LLP with the projects "Production of caustic soda and chlorine" and "Production of glyphosate and phosphorus trichloride," kadam industries LLP with the project "Production of pesticides and other agrochemical products," Kyzylordamunaigas LLC with the project "methanol production."
The completion of the 1st stage is planned for 2016, according to the results of which a feasibility study will be developed regarding the prospects for the development of this area of ​ ​ gas production, and methane reserves from coal seams of the contract territory will be calculated along with the placement on the state balance of minerals of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
air astana is proud of the opportunity to play its part in this process, "he concluded.
the law clearly outlined this task. "
they are similar to us and are at a high level of development, "said the Prime Minister.
in addition, during the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan presented the Gazi Amanullah Khan medal.
we have not turned our backs on the way ahead, "the head of state said.
today we have already financed 65-70% of all liabilities.
Kazagrofinance in the structure of the holding invested 2, 2 billion tenge in a white project.
On July 10, 2015, it was decided to join the Shu as a member state of India and Pakistan, and the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Cambodian kingdom and the Nepalese federal democratic republic - to grant partner status.
he noted that for Kazakhstan, the port of Lianyungan is a strategic hub abroad, an important part of the state program "Kazakhstan is a new silk road" and the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
The head of state noted the importance of the company's work in our country and participation in the activities of the Council of Foreign Investors.
In 2013, work began on 2 sections of Astana-Temirtau and Almaty-Kapchagai directions, 22 km of roads were reconstructed: Astana-Temirtau (12 km) and Alma-Kapchagai (10 km).
Since the signing of the memorandum of understanding during the visit of the President of France to the capital in December 2014, a joint working group of white and French companies "air liguide" - "kazmunaigaz" uk "ak -" kazmunaigaz processing-marketing "has been created and the parties have prepared the necessary documents for the creation of bn.
also contributed to the construction of our capital, including the nur Astana mosque.
Thus, 514 entities were supported in 1 tranche (100 billion tenge).
thanks to this forum, I saw the capital, the national museum. through this forum , i got acquainted with astana , the national museum , and your state .
Of the 149 organizations 52 private structures fulfill a state order for 35%, "the report said.
speaking of a couple, we represent the world civilization association. speaking about the united nations , we mean the civilized world community .
On the same day, a meeting was held with the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bhutan, at which issues of development of bilateral and multilateral cooperation were discussed.
development of microbusiness.
The People's Academy of Green "Technologies" is a unique project, there is no alternative to which in Kazakhstan.
experience played an important role in the economic, ideological, political development of Kazakhstan. the reality is that the constitution plays a crucial role in economic , ideological , and political development of kazakhstan .
at the gathering "on departmental and other equated awards of some state bodies, directly subordinate and accountable to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, law enforcement agencies, courts, armed forces, other troops and military formations "The implementation of presidential decree No. 155 of September 30, 2011, as well as the proposals of state bodies to amend the names of departmental awards in the field of activities of the Ministries of Finance and Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan were considered.
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted the need to improve the pan-European security system, that is, as the states parties to the Helsinki final act of 1975 agreed, "peoples can only live in a sincere and lasting peace."
we made sure that large projects would develop. our major projects will develop .
In October 2015, the National Bank exchanged Kazakh dollars for tenge in the domestic foreign exchange market to continue financing other transfers from Kazakhstan, approved by the management council of the Nұrly zhol program and the national fund of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Republic of Kazakhstan).
The Prime Minister of India is looking forward to the upcoming meeting with the President of Kazakhstan in the capital.
issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries were discussed at the meeting.
It is very important for us that you promote the ideas of the head of state and call for stability, "the akim said.
we have a strong foundation created by the president. "
the right to such pension payments is granted to persons in whose name a conditional pension account is opened, transferred for at least 60 months to those who have reached retirement age, as well as to persons with disabilities of groups i and ii whose disability is established indefinitely.
During the meeting, prospects for the development of bilateral trade and economic cooperation and the most pressing international issues on the agenda were discussed.
the city has become a real administrative, cultural, business, educational and medical center of our country, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In order to implement 100 concrete steps, with the support of the akims of the capital and the city of Almaty, the regions and the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the mrm "public consent" organized the republican historical and cultural expedition "Country of the Great Steppe."
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, including trade and economic, investment, fuel and energy, transit and transport and other areas.
a great reform and bright path, "the purpose of which is to bring Kazakhstan to a new level of economic development, in particular, in the field of business.
The President of Kazakhstan has established friendly relations with all countries. the president of kazakhstan has established friendly relations with all countries .
these transport links will allow us to improve trade and economic relations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
estimated construction cost 608.4 million tenge.
adapt to the new economic situation. it is necessary to adapt to the today 's new economic situation .
we are one of the founders of the International University of Information Technologies joint-stock company together with Zerde Holding and the International University of Business.
At the end of the forum, a large-scale exercise of the Russian army forces took place on the territory of the Noginsk rescue center, in which representatives of rescue units of foreign delegations from Kazakhstan, Belarus, Abkhazia, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, South Ossetia and Mongolia were involved - a total of about a thousand people, 200 pieces of equipment and 12 aircraft.
we plan to take part in the V Congress of World and Traditional Religions in the capital. we plan to take part in the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in astana .
But successful economic relations have been established between the two countries, "the head of state said.
Within the framework of the solemn meeting, the opening ceremony of the joint educational center of Kyzylorda State University named after Korkut Ata and the Chinese Oil University from the educational building of the university No. 1 took place.
such a position leads to the cultural, economic, political success of our state, "said E. Abdrasulov.
10 projects worth 3.43 billion tenge were approved, including 7 projects worth 1.25 billion tenge.
Recall that in order to provide educational, information and practical assistance to villagers on the formation of a healthy lifestyle, socially significant diseases from July 1 to August 31 of this year, a large-scale action "Health Road - 2015" is being held in all regions of the republic.
specialists of medical institutions in Almaty will provide information and consulting assistance to the population in the universal markets "alatau," "" future, "", "" d-market, "" all "and" friends of commerce, "as well as a laboratory diagnostic examination.
recently we decided to create the international financial center "Capital" on the platform of the world exhibition "Expo-2017."
another "smart" project - "smart street lighting" - was implemented on the street of workers of the "yesil" district of Astana.
Recall that the composer-director was one of the first Japanese musicians who went to Europe in the 1920s and mastered the western direction of music.
the new school year has begun, I enjoy this success and congratulate all schoolchildren and parents, teachers on the day of education, "the minister said.
In 2015, in order to increase literacy and awareness of the population, the project "reproductive health care, family planning through advice to medical workers, the population, preparation for pregnancy, and the birth of a healthy child" was continued.
this experience is useful for all regions and the world. this experience can be useful if you set it as an example for all over the world .
Currently, world-renowned suppliers of glass factory equipment have arrived in Kyzylorda, including lahti (Finland), teco (Aksh), European crud, bottero (Italy).
their total value is 16.8 billion tenge.
- Memorandum on mutual cooperation between white and Chinese international tourism bureaus "Astana Expo - 2017";
professional, "athlete," "sniper" is a real set of tests.
I am grateful that the foundation "Development and Support of Sports named after A.Vinokurova" and the team "astana pro team" will take part in such events.
they will be engaged in social projects in various fields: culture, sports, environmental projects.
The parties noted mutually beneficial actions in the implementation of the agreements reached during the head of state's visit to Germany in 2012, in particular, the report of the partnership in the raw materials, technology and production sectors, as well as the introduction of the German model of dual education in Kazakhstan.
I am a participant in this project in Alma-Ata. i am a member of the project in almaty .
In April, growth amounted to 18.3 billion tenge and amounted to 49.3 billion per year (April 2015-2014).
In this regard, starting in 2016, we plan to entrust the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, namely industry associations of employers, to develop and update relevant standards, "said Birzhan nurymbetov.
The meeting was attended by the leaders of Baiterek ubh ak, dame kdk ak, baiterek development ak, development bank of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan mortgage company iu.
43 projects worth 48.80 billion tenge were approved, the total production capacity - 63.8 thousand tons of fruit and vegetable products per year, an area of ​ ​ 152.4 hectares, this production volume will contribute to reducing the off-season shortage of fruit and vegetable products by 63.6%.
Recall that in 2015, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan continues to implement measures to assess knowledge and practical skills for doctors, in addition to health managers and organizers.
If the bill under consideration is adopted today, we assume that most of the information for citizens, up to 70%, will be open access, "the deputy said.
During the meeting, the most important events in the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and the prospects for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan on new conditions were discussed.
During the meeting, the Secretary of State noted that each of the 5 institutional reforms and 100 concrete steps of the national plan proposed by the head of state will be based on knowledge and best technologies, which will become the foundation and intellectual potential of modern Kazakh society.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Abdullah II discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and regional relations, as well as discussed topical issues on the international agenda.
Also, within the framework of President N. Nazarbayev's "100 Steps" program, information was provided on measures taken in the country to form a highly qualified, autonomous state apparatus.
Currently, we must be able to use our potential for the benefit of the two countries and the prosperity of our states, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
polypropylene-coated pipelines coated with special materials significantly reduce the likelihood of water and heat loss, nevertheless they have been serving for more than 25 years.
In 2010-2014, the country's energy efficiency decreased by 18.6%, which indicates a change in the structure of the economy, "said A. Rau.
4.5 billion tenge (28.8 million dollars) was allocated from the republican budget, the loan of the international bank for reconstruction and development amounted to 4.6 billion tenge (30 million dollars), 737 million tenge (5 million dollars) became the pledge of the global environmental fund, "said Borovkov.
A positive difference in interregional migration occurred in the cities of Almaty (21,030 people), the capital (405 people) and Akmola (1,298 people), Kostanay (570 people) regions.
On behalf of the head of state, we began to prepare a new state program for 2016-2020.
by 264 sectors of self-service located at service centers of the population, citizens can register in public reception parties, publish address online, enter on reception to deputies of fractions of Nr Otan party, maslikhat and heads of the central and local executive bodies.
The head of the Jordanian government praised the initiatives of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. the head of the jordanian government praised the initiatives of president nursultan nazarbayev in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons .
in the constitution we are the people of Kazakhstan. "
As for contemporary art, the National Museum of Kazakhstan initiated the participation of Kazakhstani artists in the famous international Venice Biennale of Contemporary Art in 2017, "he said.
During the construction, about 21 thousand jobs were created, "he concluded.
the meeting between Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin ended in the capital.
Kazakhstan also signed a founding agreement to create a joint venture "rheinmetall ke" for engineering and rheinmetall eastern markets gmbh.
In the engineering industry, stepnogorsk produced 6.9 thousand tons of bearings, kamaz engineering collected 426 trucks, and a branch of the Atbasar electric locomotive repair plant repaired electric locomotives worth 3 billion 643.4 million tenge, "said the head of the department.
the decrease was recorded in the West Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan and East Kazakhstan regions.
for me, this is a new criticism. for me it is a new challenge .
the Baikonur project includes a cycling team, primarily investments in Kazakhstan, including tourism and business in Kazakhstan.
- Memorandum of understanding and cooperation between the national export and investment agency "kaznex invest" and the Silk Road Foundation on the creation of a special investment fund for industrial and innovative cooperation projects;
the staged repertoire of the Astana Opera House consists of popular and popular performances for the public: "traviata," "aida," "caraguz," "vegetable garden," "spartak," "swan lake," "hibernation" and others.
According to the Prime Minister, there is a good program and supports single-industry towns.
our mission in Kazakhstan is to sign a memorandum of cooperation between expo -2017 and the Ukrainian company monaco ukraine group to attract Ukrainian tourists to the exhibition in the capital. our mission in kazakhstan is the signing of a memorandum of cooperation between expo 2017 company and the ukrainian company monaco ukraine group to attract the ukrainian tourists to the international exhibition in astana .
we wish you good luck, "said the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The State Opera and Ballet Theater "Astana Opera" was founded on the initiative of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Within the framework of the forum, the exhibitions "Made in the Capital," "Smart Capital," "Astana expo-2017," "Modern City Transport" were held, as well as a common stand on investment projects of entrepreneurs of the capital.
B. Itimova was previously elected as the Serbian representative of the informal Ecu group, which was engaged in supplementing the Ecu Plan on Gender in 2004.
An important event at the present stage of Kazakh-Ukrainian relations was the official visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Ukraine on December 22, 2014, during which a number of specific agreements were reached to develop cooperation by intensifying bilateral cooperation, including the activities of the Kazakh-Ukrainian interstate commission.
In his speech, the Kazakh ambassador introduced the participants to the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," investment opportunities esa and shyho "horgos," the main goals and objectives of the national plan "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms."
manufacturers of medicines and medical products, distributors and retail representatives at the level of March 1, 2015 approved prices and assumed social responsibility for maintaining prices for 200 items of commonly used medicines and medical products.
WTO membership opens new horizons for our economy. wto membership opens up new horizons for our economy .
Competitions will be held at the training base of the central sports club "Army."
after updating the data, the data of mutual trade with the countries of the world in 2014 amounted to $21 billion or 14.5% less than in 2013, including exports - $6.4 billion or 8.7% more, imports - $14.6 billion or 21.9% less, the report said.
11.6 billion tenge is provided for these purposes.
As part of the reconstruction of the corridor, it is planned to build another 6 lanes at the Taskala border checkpoint, as well as a reserve of transport sites and places of residence of heavy vehicles, "the department said.
we produce construction products that are sent to the capital market. we produce construction products .
decrease is registered in Aktobe, West Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan and East Kazakhstan regions.
Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Romania daulet Batrashev familiarized the conference participants with the history and culture of Kazakhstan, the stages of the formation of Kazakh statehood and the centuries-old struggle for independence, from the first state structures of the Middle Ages to the formation of the Kazakh khanate in 1465.
The Echo of Asia program covers all genres of circus art.
At the end of the meeting the guests were presented the project of the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
the compositions "sniper," "," "," Amazon, "", "" "welcome" "totem" were staged here.
expo family film (family movie of an Expo) won gold in the nomination "Corporate communications: information for visitors".
this is a great achievement of the chief architect of the capital, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2014 - 0, "- said in a statement.
the exercises will be held at the training grounds of the regional commands "western" and "eastern," as well as at the training ground "Donguz" in the Orenburg region.
during this period, the company's arsenal is replenished with catalytic cracking units "rfc," hydrotreating gasoline "prime g +," sulfur production, hydrogen purification and others.
we will build two more facilities for luge and short cancer, figure skating, "he said.
For the period June 2014 - June 2015, 83 objects are subject to privatization.
The purpose of the forum is to implement 5 institutional reforms within the framework of the idea of ​ ​ the head of state "eternal country," strengthening the unity of the nation and Kazakhstani patriotism.
Thus, from the beginning of the pilot project until June 30 of this year, the internal affairs bodies (administrative police) sent 61 administrative materials in an electronic version from the Apb of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the capital to the specialized inter-district administrative court of Astana through the Judicial Office information service for specific consideration.
our family is an anniversary family. "
Today, the capital is one of the regions that has become a donor to the republican budget, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We have not returned to our proposal, now we need to work, "said the head of state.
So, projects are being implemented under the kulan, Business Roadmap 2020, Employment Roadmap 2020 programs.
As part of the official visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia on May 22-24, 2014 to Astana, special attention was paid to the implementation of the measures of the "comprehensive partnership" agreement.
entrepreneurs discussed the possibilities of cooperation not only with general contractors of construction, but also with the general designer of construction by it engineering sa and an investor in Renaissance Construction LLP (mega plaza shopping and entertainment center).
releasing an additional parachute, blowing life jackets, removing the hanger, jumping into the water 2 meters to the water and swimming from the place of descent of the parachute.
the contribution of the capital to the development of the country's economy is growing every year.
During the construction of the power supply line, more than 800 tagans were installed, 22 km of overhead wires and 110 kv lines were converted, the modular post of electric centers was repaired.
As the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine noted, at present it is necessary to go through all points and review the mechanisms that brought our countries 5 billion dollars of mutual trade.
this is a new strong trend in world cinema.
In turn, the head of the region Sergey Kulagin noted that the national plan is a concrete step towards Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 competitive countries in the world.
at the job fair, the specialists of the employment center advise on participation in the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," talk about the possibility of participating in youth practice, employment in social jobs and paid community service.
According to the results of research, 40% of employers believe that "graduates of technical and vocational education need to increase theoretical knowledge."
This year, Russia chairs both organizations.
I am happy to introduce Kazakhstan, "said E. machine.
According to statistics, more than 2 thousand food producers in Kazakhstan must steadily improve the quality of their products in order to adequately compete within the framework of the WTO and the Eurasian Economic Union.
this year this program will increase 2.5 times. this program will be increased by 2.5 times this year .
The aim of the programme is to bring together European, Asian and Pacific countries to move the international sector of organizations, the public and business sectors towards a green economy through the transfer of knowledge, innovation and technology.
we must develop all strategic directions and improve the work of the company.
With the service name notification sent to the short number 414, the user can now view the inspection time and the housing queue number from the public housing system.
all state bodies should work in a coherent manner, I instruct you to accelerate this work, "the head of state said.
xsjkk plans to participate in the "recommended by expo" program as an official partner of expo 2017.
1 . for outstanding services in the exploration of outer space, courage and heroism shown when flying into space, cosmonaut Ayymbetov Bear Ayymbetov was awarded the title "People's Hero," and the distinctive insignia is a golden star and the Order of the Motherland.
It is worth noting that this book contains reviews and articles of foreign state and public figures, which discussed the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of legal development over the past 20 years and the contribution of the President of Kazakhstan.
Latvia highly appreciates cooperation with Kazakhstan, "the ambassador said.
this is an assessment of our work.
this is a good indicator, "he said.
I always come to Kazakhstan with joy. i 'm always happy to come to kazakhstan .
In 2014, 5 billion 850 million tenge was allocated for the construction of 6 secondary schools and 15 preschool institutions. 5 billion 850 million tenge was allocated to the construction of 6 secondary schools , 15 kindergartens and other educational facilities last year .
the president signed a decree on the creation of the international financial center "Capital" on the basis of the world exhibition EXPO-2017. "
This year, 2.7 billion tenge was subsidized in the capital.
This year 302.2 billion tenge was allocated for the development of national roads. this year , the state allocated 302.2 billion tenge for the development of roads of national importance .
this is a serious task for all countries of the world, for Kazakhstan. it is a main task for all countries , including kazakhstan .
I represent dhko. i represent the difc court .
and the peugeot partner model was recognized by Kazakhstanis as the "car of the year" in the nomination "mini-van."
On September 26, on the border of Aktobe and the Kyzylorda region (Irgiz-island regions), the diary of expedition participants is awarded as the main symbol of the expedition to the Kyzylorda region.
we amended the agreement signed in 2007 to allow Member States to purchase rescue equipment at the price of an internal plant. this agreement , signed in 2007 , gives csto countries - participants the opportunity to receive rescue equipment at producers ' prices .
In August of this year, it is planned to begin construction of fattening sites of meat processing and service LLP, reed invest LLP, Chagan Zher LLP, etc.
- The Constitution is the main state power, the main law.
the constitution is the main state power, the main law. the constitution is the basis of state power , the basic law .
Recall that in order to provide educational, information and practical assistance to villagers on the formation of a healthy lifestyle, socially significant diseases from July 1 to August 31 of this year, a large-scale action "Health Road - 2015" will be held in all regions of the republic.
the Constitution is the principal law of any State. constitution - is the basic law in any state .
food contract corporation white, "kazagronym" white, "kazagromarketing" white, "kazagromarketing" white.
The head of state set such large-scale tasks for health care as bringing the life expectancy of citizens of the country to 80 years or more by 2050, creating a competitive and effective system of medical care for the population, and developing medical tourism. the head of state put tasks such as providing of life expectancy of citizens of kazakhstan in 2050 to 80 years and more , creating of a highly efficient and competitive system of medical aid to the population , the development of medical tourism , and others .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the successful development of interstate relations, noting that the visit of the President of Finland to the country in 2013 contributed to the intensification of cooperation in the economy and other priority areas.
now we can give an example of Finland's experience on this issue, where the gap between a strong student and a poorly trained student is a maximum of 10 percent.
our task is to attract investments in Kazakhstan. our task is to attract investments into kazakhstan .
and we are against corruption! " a youth action was organized.
now we have selected projects.
As you know, this year the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" will be completed.
The internship program will be attended by 40 state youth employees from 24 regions of the Russian Federation, in particular, the federal level, subjects of the federation and Moscow, the Republic of Tatarstan, Dagestan, Ingushetia, Krasnoyarsk Territory, Kamchatka Territory, Vladimir, Bryansk Regions.
in addition, the city council approved the project of the residential complex "jubileeland" in Medeu district, which, by order of Kumpolan Kazakhstan LLP, compiled rsp architects planners & engineers (pte) ltd, Singapore and pa kazgor.
- agreement between the "baiterek" ubh "ak and the" sitik of groups "on joint participation in the Kazakhstan infrastructure fund;
Within the framework of the meeting, the German side was familiarized with the main provisions of the new economic policy "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" and the Plan of the Nation "100 steps," the state and prospects for the development of the tourism industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the preparations for the Expo-2017 exhibition.
Within the framework of this direction, 8,175,5 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget in 2013-2014, and 2,979 million tenge was allocated in 2015.
The estimated duration of the project is 2016-2018.
Thus, the main share of the CU - 82%, or 14,477 million tenge, was attracted to the metallurgical production and production of finished metal products, 7% or 1,229,6 million dollars were invested in the production of food products, in the production of computers and electronic products 4.6% or 813.9 million dollars, in the production of rubber and plastic products 2.6% or 465 million dollars.
-Of course.
The German side highly appreciated the international initiatives of Kazakhstan within the framework of the pair, including the proposals of the head of state to develop a plan for a global strategic initiative - 2045, to turn the economic and social council of the United Nations into a global development council and to adopt a UN universal declaration on achieving a nuclear-weapon-free world.
Europe and Asia are subcontinents.
during the negotiations, we addressed a wide range of issues. during the negotiations we discussed a wide range of issues .
the first is the mining and metallurgical industry. first - mining and smelting sector .
the meeting was held as part of the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to China.
vegetable storage: 45 projects worth 17.58 billion tenge were approved, the total capacity of a one-time storage capacity of 190.4 thousand tons, the commissioning of warehouses will reduce the shortage of storage capacities by 42.7%.
we are building a new Kazakhstan with new opportunities and prospects that were not in the history of ancestors, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the issue is rated bbb + on the moody's scale on the baa2, s & p and bbb + on the vvv and fitch scales.
it includes the "counrade copper company," "iron taucen," "Eurasian invest ltd."
we are proud of the achievements of Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
On July 10, 2015, it was decided to join the Shu as a member state of India and Pakistan, and the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Cambodian kingdom and the Nepalese federal democratic republic - to grant partner status.
According to him, in 2015 the volume of subsidies for the development of the industry amounted to 1 billion dollars (176.8 billion tenge), which is twice as much as in 2013 (88.7 billion tenge).
Recall that the competition "gold quality" according to the prize of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been held annually since 2006, where organizations are awarded for the quality of products served or manufactured, the introduction of the best methods in the field of safety and management.
The measures taken should ensure the renewal of the country's political system and sustained economic growth, contribute to the achievement of the main goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, becoming one of the 30 most developed states in the world.
In turn, Mr. Isaev said that from January 2016 it is planned to hire local specialists at the field, including through appropriate retraining.
According to the agency, Kazstroystroy is working on large investment projects in Kazakhstan.
Finance Minister B. Sultanov presented a draft law "On the republican budget for 2016-2018."
At its own expense, the Rudnensky heating network enterprise repairs main heating networks in the city of Rudny with a length of 8 km and in the village of Kashar with a length of 1 km.
The Constitution is the principal law of any State.
the capital has its own "gravity," which attracts talents, new projects, financial, intellectual and social capital.
41.7 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
41.8 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
42.1 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
The number of registered persons who married from January to May 2015 increased by 0.4% compared to the same period last year, the number of divorces increased by 10.3%, the report said.
all issues are now under discussion.
all bidding takes place electronically, "he said.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic and investment spheres, cooperation between the two countries within the framework of international organizations, as well as topical issues on the international agenda were discussed.
- loan agreement between the white bank "Astana Lrt" and the Chinese state development bank;
The press service of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports that taking into account the holidays that fall from May 5 to June 5, a decision has been made to extend the deadline for accepting recommendations for awarding a prize and a grant from the head of state in the garden sphere, as well as declaring gratitude until June 10, the report said.
This is evidenced by the chairmanship of the Bulgarian side on Kazakh initiatives, including in 2010 in the European organization of security and cooperation, membership in the world trade organization, the UN Security Council and support for the international exhibition expo-2017 in the capital. Akhmedyars.
According to the results of the sowing campaign in June-July 2015, the district and city departments of land relations presented a report on crops.
In recent years, international trade has become an integral part of Kazakhstan's business. in recent years , international trade has become an integral part of kazakhstan 's business .
military unit in Uralsk, West Kazakhstan Engineering Company (former metalworker plant) and omega plant.
a national commission for modernization is functioning, the National Plan of the Head of State is being implemented in state bodies and institutions - 100 cadems, in order to implement such programs as "unity and unity," the Secretary of State said.
in addition, we are actively working with kaznex invest "as it is an export company.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation on the path of development and prosperity were discussed.
Using this model will save 40% of the funds, unlike traditional methods in water and gas supply systems, "he said.
in turn, he noted the importance of cooperation between kameko and kazatomprom companies.
- program of cooperation between the MFA and the MFA of RK;
I want to serve in the ground forces. "
issues of cooperation in the field of metallurgy were considered at the meeting.
I instruct the security council to keep this issue under constant control, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The project norms from January 1, 2018 are aimed at introducing mandatory employer pension contributions in the amount of 5 percent of the employee's income, which will be transferred to the conditional pension accounts of each employee opened in the IZHS.
In order to achieve this goal this year, within the framework of the project "Increasing the export potential of cattle meat," a memorandum was signed with the Ministry of Agriculture on the export of 100 tons of cattle meat in the region, "the deputy akim of the region said.
As part of the meeting a. Abdramanov spoke in detail about the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," about the preparations for the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the holding of the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
this is our policy of openness.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the sustainable development of trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two countries.
The sides discussed the state and prospects of political, economic and cultural bilateral cooperation.
expedition - a nationwide project.
Road users were informed about the consequences and number of accidents on the roads of Aktobe region that occurred in 2014 and in the first half of 2015.
In addition, to date, 354 people with disabilities have been employed through employment centers, including 147 people with disabilities, 188 people with disabilities, and 19 people with disabilities have received loans to open their own business.
memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the Italian company metalfar prodotti industriali spa ";
The total economy of the EEO and Shu member States has now reached $13 trillion, or 16% of the global total.
254 subjects of shock were supported in 2 tranches (50 billion tenge).
the new project will ensure the implementation of all social obligations, "he assured.
As you know, this year the country is preparing for a big holiday. as you know , this year , our country celebrates a big anniversary .
at all international summits, I spoke in support of Afghanistan. during all international summits i spoke in support of afghanistan .
This was stated by Minister of Economic Integration Zhanar Aitzhanova at the expanded meeting of the Committee on Entrepreneurship and Innovative Development, Economic Policy on the bills of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of the Protocol on Accession of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Marrakesh Agreement on the Creation of a World Trade Organization of April 15, 1994."
Earlier, during negotiations with the Russian side at the 70th General Assembly and Congress of the World Army Sports Council in Kuwait, representatives of the aosca of the Republic of Kazakhstan expressed a desire to take part in the competitions of 70 of our army athletes.
It is worth noting that the Council on Cooperation in the Field of Education of the CIS Member States was held on January 17, 1997 within the framework of the agreement on cooperation on the creation of a single educational space of the CIS.
The meeting also discussed the participation of Cambodian management and companies in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
On 14 February 1994, the Republic of Kazakhstan joined 121 member countries.
This bill was developed in order to implement the main directions of the Concept of further modernization of the pension system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030, approved by presidential decree of June 18, 2014.
Thanks to this, the basis of our state and society will become strong, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The Chairman of the Accounts Committee not only presented information on the implementation of the national budget for 2014, but also outlined problems related to the efficiency and targeted spending of budget funds.
D. Emberdiev noted that the plan of the nation is the response of Kazakhstan to the challenges of our time and its implementation will allow to become one of the 30 most developed states of the world in the next 10-15 years.
This year, we launched a quality program related to hotel business, restaurant, tourism, etc.
One of the main requirements is that candidates for judicial posts in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan have 5 years of work in the regional court, a total of 10 years in the post of judge.
In particular, during the visit, an agreement was reached on the development of the "kazakhstan infrastructure fund" between the Baiterek holding and the Chinese investment corporation citic group.
In accordance with the agreements of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Emir of the State Sheikh Tamim and hamad al-thani in 2014 in the capital, the interlocutors considered the joint implementation of the project to build a health center in the city of Semipalatinsk for victims of nuclear tests.
From March 16 to July 27, 2015, 8,845 citizens living in remote settlements of the country, as part of special mobilization groups, received advice on the appointment of pensions and benefits from specialists of the State Center for the Payment of Pensions in the Countryside, and Kazpost population service centers.
this is another victory that our country has conquered. this is another top , taken by our country .
I think this is very important for our country.
Next year, construction will be completed and put into operation, "he said.
this visit of the Director General of the International Epizootic Bureau is very important for Kazakhstan. this visit is very important for kazakhstan .
I urge Polish companies to cooperate in our country, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Employment of people with disabilities is ensured through the projects "Employment Roadmap 2020" and "City Development Program," holding special job fairs, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek.
Of the 157 young applicants from all over eastern Kazakhstan who recruited the group, the family rashida Uzykhanova got the opportunity to take part in the national selection held in the capital, reports East Kazakhstan region.
The portal "2gis.kz" works with us, which has activated 40% of its base in the city of Almaty, including new postal codes, "said the press secretary of Kazpost JSC Bairam Aziz.
According to statistics, the share of agricultural products produced in the region in the total volume of products produced in the republic is 100%, cotton - 70%, melons - 64, safflower - 38, fruits - 36, vegetables - 23%, - said the Governor of the region.
The document, signed by the heads of the EAEU on October 16, 2015, defines the issues of import and circulation of goods to the customs territory of the Eurasian Economic Union in connection with Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
according to the results, more than 30% of officers are placed in the reserve for promotion to senior positions; More than 16% of officers were recommended for training in 2015-2017, the rest - clarified their qualifications and compliance with their position, the report said.
A. Yessimov noted that due to the revision of some architectural and construction projects, the volume of expenses will decrease by 78 billion tenge, while the general architectural appearance and functionality of the objects will remain.
development of industrial infrastructure "81 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of infrastructure" nint "ea and" kohas-eastern kakapa "eea.
everywhere, during foreign trips, meetings with country leaders, heads of large companies, I spoke about expo 2017.
204 loan agreements for the replenishment of working capital (the amount of subsidies for 2015 is 489.3 million tenge), 154 loan agreements for the purchase of fixed assets and construction (the amount of subsidies for 2015 is 104.1 million tenge), 132 loan agreements for the leasing of agricultural machinery and technological equipment (The amount of subsidies for 2015 is 88.8 million tenge), the statement said.
Since the beginning of the year, only 165 units of various agricultural, tillage and special equipment have been supplied to agricultural structures and farms of the South Kazakhstan region through the white line of the subsidiary of the holding organization - KazagroFinance.
the second part, one of the famous poets of that period, Francesca Petrarch, was dedicated to the incomparable book "codex cumanicus," which she transferred to the Venetian library in 1362, later preserved in the church of St. Peter.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,290 million tenge, holdings - 60 835 million tenge, accc - 2 919 million tenge.
As part of the reconstruction, the installation of the 19-kilometer compartment of the Pavlodar-Shymkent media was carried out, chambers for receiving purification and diagnostics of oil pipelines were installed.
according to the order, the issuance of licenses for the import of certain types of vehicles into the Republic of Kazakhstan, grouped by tn ved eaes 8702, 8703, 8704 (buses, cars and trucks), on the basis of a distribution or dealership agreement, is carried out by official representatives of the developer, as well as official dealers.
290 livestock contracts (amount of subsidies paid in 2015 - 123.5 million tenge); 121 agreements on crop production were approved (the volume of subsidies paid in 2015 - 222.1 million tenge), 37 agreements on the production and processing of agricultural products (the volume of subsidies paid in 2015 - 249.3 million tenge), 42 agreements on mixed agriculture (the volume of subsidies in 2015 - 87.1 million tenge).
Recall, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
Estonia leads among the post-Soviet countries (16th place) of Lithuania (20), Latvia (22), Georgia (24), Armenia (35), Belarus (44), Russia (51), Moldova (52), Azerbaijan (63), Kyrgyzstan (67), Ukraine (83), Uzbekistan (87) and Tajikistan (132).
kaze means "wind" in Japanese.
The Government of Kazakhstan has developed a powerful set of measures that are part of 5 institutional reforms that will diversify, develop the economy, be ready for external instability, "said K. Kelimbetov.
In addition, the Governor of the region noted that in the city of Fort Shevchenko, a children's hospital with 30 seats, a central hospital, a sports complex, aigul and zhakazyn kindergartens with 100 seats each were put into operation, gasification of the district center was carried out.
this is the achievement of Kazakhstan's democracy, "he said.
France is interested in developing business partnership with Kazakhstan. france is extremely interested in the development of business partnership with kazakhstan .
the festival of traditional music begins with a concert "music of city, village and steppe."
these products are supplied to the following large enterprises of the region: Kazakhstan electrolysis plant, "Pavlodar river port" white, "kazakhmys bozhakol llp," "peacock milk."
According to the results of the technological forecast, 175 necessary technologies were identified, in order to implement them, a targeted technological program was developed, which will be carried out through innovative grants, and the volume of the grant will reach 800 million tenge.
if last year there were 22,827 tons, then this year - 23 thousand. "
During the training of aviators, pair aerobatics, opening of the air route, determining the goal and overcoming were worked out, "said the deputy commander for educational and socio-legal work of the military unit 55652 of the city of Shymkent, lieutenant colonel of the gendos nurymbets.
The strategic interview is conducted on an annual basis in accordance with the agreements reached during the state visit of British Prime Minister David Cameron in 2013, and is an important mechanism for strengthening relations between the capital and London.
We have reserves in the amount of 40% of GDP, and if we use them effectively, then we can continue to develop the economy and prevent the deterioration of social sentiment of the population.
The event was attended by heads of leading companies, funds and financial institutions: guggenheim, jp morgan, pfizer, blackstone and others.
this agreement contributed to strengthening cooperation between the countries, "he said.
at the same time funds are allocated to the republican budget - 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,273 million tenge, holdings - 60 835 million tenge, accc - 2 918 million tenge.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,290 million tenge, holdings - 60 835 million tenge, accc - 2 919 million tenge.
The head of state noted that Kazakh-Kyrgyz relations are always at a high level, Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU will create conditions for further intensification of trade turnover, which already exceeds 1 billion dollars.
The capital is the result of our outstanding work, "the President of Kazakhstan added.
In addition, the head of government stressed that the acceptance of all the necessary legislative framework has been completed, from January 2016 Kazakhstan will begin the stage of practical implementation of these reforms.
It is noted that in the structure of income from communication services for January-July 2015, 61.6% is occupied by operational communications, the Internet - 21.1%, long-distance and international types of communications - 1.4%, local telephone communication - 2.2%, other types of communications - 13.7%.
this is a joint project "Kazakhstan temir zholy" and "general electric."
the share of private entrepreneurship in this structure is about 84.2% (43.2 thousand), peasant farms - 7.02% (3.6 thousand), legal entities of small businesses - 8.4% (4.3 thousand), legal entities of medium-sized businesses - 0.3% (0.13 thousand).
the president instructed the Baiterek holding, together with the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, to implement the national champions project.
Since 2016, 80 teachers and masters of iidmb-2 colleges will annually improve their qualifications in foreign centers on new learning technologies, "the press service of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reports.
According to the International Energy Agency, by 2040, energy consumption in the world should increase by 37%, as for the EU countries, due to energy efficiency policies, they are not predicted. according to the international energy agency , global energy consumption will increase to 37 % by 2040 , but due to the policy of energy efficiency , the energy consumption will not increase in oecd countries .
In order to organize the work of the portal of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and increase the literacy of consumers, 669 consultations were issued, including 491 electronic digital signatures (eska) for identity cards.
on the Japanese side, it is planned to participate 100 companies in the field of economics, engineering, aviation and space, the chemical industry, finance and property, freight, grain, health, the Ministry of Investment and Development said.
K. Tokayev also familiarized the British diplomat and parliamentarian with the priorities of N. Nazarbayev's economic strategy, legislative support for the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, as well as about the foreign policy of the state in the context of the speech of the head of state at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly.
Another strong incentive to reform the institutional foundations is the inclusion in the list of 30 developed countries of the world and organizations of economic cooperation and development facing our state, "the expert said.
In the first quarter of 2015, revenues from the sale of products and services amounted to 138.7 billion. Tenge, which is 15.4% less than the same period last year, experts said.
The forum of sovereign wealth funds is attended by the Malaysian khazanah, the Norwegian state pension fund, the Australian future fund, the Russian national wealth fund, the Russian investment fund and 27 other such sovereign wealth funds.
N.Nazarbayev for 20 years was the defender of the constitution, the guarantor, and now is the supreme arbiter, the person ensuring the stable functioning of the mass power. during 20 years n. nazarbayev has acted as a guardian of the constitution , as a guarantor of the country and the president is still a supreme arbiter , which ensures the proper functioning of the public authorities .
26 projects worth 41.5 billion tenge were approved, the total production capacity for eggs 993.8 million units per year, for poultry meat 84.5 thousand tons per year, such a production volume will contribute to a decrease in poultry meat imports by 47.6%.
The volume of trade in markets and individual entrepreneurs in January-July 2015 increased by 6.6% compared to the corresponding period last year, the share of this distribution channel in the total volume of retail trade amounted to 46.8%.
thus, in terms of taxation, it is established that the authorities and members of the center are exempted from paying corporate income tax, property tax and land tax for fifty years until January 1, 2066.
Therefore, the holding of the Golden Shooter competition helps to identify the weaknesses and strengths of the participating teams, as well as the exchange of best practices in the fight against international terrorism, "said Colonel Askhat Sadykulov, deputy commander of the military unit 14776.
The day of the great steppe is the light of our good deeds, "the head of state said.
a unified concept of educational work taking into account the values ​ ​ of the "eternal country," in 6 main sectors of the economy it is planned to train qualified personnel in the top 10 colleges and 10 universities to disseminate the next experience in educational institutions of other countries.
The national plan of 100 concrete steps includes measures such as optimization of tax regimes and procedures, mass tax declaration of income and expenses, implementation of risk management systems, integration of customs and tax systems.
In the reports of Kazakh diplomats, special attention was paid to the prospects of multilateral cooperation, which has been opening since the entry into force of the agreement on a free trade zone between the Eurasian Economic Union and Vietnam signed on May 29, 2015.
To date, of the planned projects in the region, 1 km of power lines have been built, 110 km have been reconstructed and modernized, 553 km of power lines have been overhauled, "said A.Sherubayev.
During the briefing, it was noted that eaeo is an open association with high economic and investment potential, as well as the world's largest consumer market with a population of more than 180 million people.
15 of his companies supplied their products as part of the project of the Government of Kazakhstan to establish steam assistance and the structural situation in Afghanistan, "he said.
As a result of independence and the policy pursued by President Nursultan Nazarbayev to preserve historical and cultural value, deep and historical events are being held, including the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the deputy said.
During this event, a preliminary agreement for $5 million was concluded.
18 applications for legalization of property worth 636.5 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In the first direction "Infrastructure development and employment provision through housing and communal services" it is planned to create 474 jobs and provide employment for 237 people through employment centers.
in addition, b. Minister of Oil of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sheriff Ismail presented the invitation of the Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Shkolnik to the X Kazakh Eurasian Forum "New Energy Horizon: New Opportunities for Partnership and Investment," which will be held in the capital at the end of September 2015.
Recall, K. Massimov visited the capital of Malaysia as part of the participation in the 128th session of the International Olympic Committee, within which the city will be selected where the 2022 Winter Olympics will be held.
During the discussions at the forum, it is necessary to integrate the movement of high-speed trains on the highway, the railway industry into the sphere of "1520 space."
the largest number of contracts handed over and approved is in Akmola region, more precisely, in this region there are 39 loan agreements, the amount of subsidies to be paid in 2015 is 192.2 million tenge, which is 49.9% of the volume of approved subsidies.
The international competition "Commonwealth Warrior," demonstrating the military-professional skill of the servicemen of friendly armies, has been held annually since 2009 by decision of the Council of Defense Ministers of the CIS member states.
This year, 594.5 million tenge was allocated for the overhaul of educational institutions, including 420.37 million tenge from the republican budget, and 174.16 million tenge from the local budget.
So, if in January of this year about 4 hours were spent on customs operations in relation to goods produced for domestic consumption, then in November only 1 hours 37 minutes.
in the future - the construction of a universal multifunctional vessel with a displacement of 720 tons and a border guard ship of the 2nd rank with a helicopter on board.
Within the framework of the extended meeting, we adopted a plan of measures for the implementation of the third stage of the CIS Economic Development Strategy until 2020 (2016-2020) and submitted the necessary clarifications to the list of pilot interstate innovative projects, "added K. Maxim.
not only amendments are provided to eliminate legal, legal conflict, but also cardinal changes and norms providing for a specific solution of the issue, in total, the deputies made more than 11 thousand amendments, "the speaker said.
In accordance with the agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it allocated 40 million dollars of loans of the Republic of Kazakhstan to finance projects to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The problem of small schools will also be solved, 350 boarding schools will be reconstructed and 64 higher schools will be built in large district centers.
now implementation of the project Western Europe - the western China continues, implementation of projects of highways the center South "(the capital - Almaty)", the center East "(capital capital)", the center East "(the capital - Aktobe - Atyrau - whitewashing), almatino-growth, karagandino-zhezkazgano-Kyzylorda and Atyrau - Astrakhan is begun", - told m pshembayev.
In addition, according to A. Arynov, "over 5 years of kaznex invest, more than 1,500 manufacturing companies used the agency's support funds and signed contracts totaling more than $1.5 billion."
on the Japanese side, it is planned to participate 100 companies in the field of economics, engineering, aviation and space, the chemical industry, finance and property, freight, grain, health, the Ministry of Investment and Development said.
There is a very big drop in prices in the industry, their prices are falling to 50%, we are likely to lower oil prices until 2016.	there is a very significant decline in the industry , prices fall by almost 50 % during the year and then our market will have longer difficulties in oil prices until 2016 .	1,85
We want to launch it in January 2016, we must pass 78 laws, amend the constitution, because we must create a financial center and get the experience of the Dubai center.	we want them to be launched in january 2016 , for that we have to take 78 legislation , to amend the constitution , because we have decided to create a financial center and fully accept the methods of dubai center .	1,85
Kaztransoil "amounted to 11 million 895 thousand cubic meters. m, which for 2014 is more than planned indicators and similar indicators for the first half of the year 10%.
Recall that in order to provide educational, information and practical assistance to villagers on the formation of a healthy lifestyle, socially significant diseases from July 1 to August 31 of this year, a large-scale action "Health Road - 2015" is being held in all regions of the republic.
it is very responsible for all religious people, "he said.
regional meetings were held in all regions, during which 62 memoranda worth 19.7 billion tenge were signed. 12 memoranda worth -1.4 billion tenge, West Kazakhstan region - 19 memoranda worth 2.9 billion tenge, Karaganda region - 7 memoranda worth 7.5 billion tenge, assembly region - 1 memorandum worth 1.2 billion tenge, Kyzylorda region - 10 memoranda worth 1.4 billion tenge, South Kazakhstan region - 13 memoranda worth 5.3 billion tenge Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc" (RK) zhulat Bekturgenev.
During the meeting, the main areas of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Great Britain, topical issues on the international agenda and regional security issues were discussed.
If the first project brings significant profit to the enterprise that carried it out and the volume of exploration work is effective (35-40%), then the implementation of the second project will satisfy the majority of residents of the city of Temirtau (500 people per day).
The Constitution is the main law of our country. the constitution is the fundamental law of the country .
for this purpose, we are implementing the strategic project "Kazakhstan-2050," we have begun new institutional reforms.
During the conference, a report by a researcher at the Institute of the Higher School of Geopolitics and Related Disciplines alessandro Lundini "20 years of the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" was also presented to the participants.
In general, in terms of the level of time outflow and funds for opening a business, the number of trends decreased by 4 units, and the time decreased by 16.5 days.
Kazakhstan exports 2 times more than Uzbek, 3 times more than Georgian, 4 times more than Azerbaijani and Armenian, 7 times more than Turkmen, 44 times more than Tajik, "he concluded. alpysbaeva.
we are interested in mutually beneficial economic cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan. we are interested in mutually beneficial economic cooperation with the republic of kazakhstan .
According to him, 1% of the population is better to be a donor of blood supply, and 2.5% - citizens of this category.
Specialists from Europe are involved in the construction, a joint venture "samruk kazyna - united green" has been created.
dairy farms: 35 projects worth 37.79 billion tenge were approved, the total production capacity of 159.6 thousand tons of milk and dairy products per year, which contributes to a decrease in imports of dairy products by 18.3%.
According to him, the company used a white financing program "kdb-leasing."
first of all - the construction of external infrastructure in 2014-2016.
In this regard, our main goal together with you is the active participation of women's creative potential in the implementation of the initiatives of the head of state, such as 5 institutional reforms - 100 steps, a new economic policy "nұrly Zhol," "said the Secretary of State.
From 2012 to September 2015, the unemployment rate decreased from 5.2% to 5.0%, youth unemployment (15-28 years old) - from 5.5% to 2.8%.
bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu is actively ongoing, primarily this is a dynamic of high political cooperation. bilateral cooperation between kazakhstan and the eu is actively developed , first of all , it is the high dynamics of political cooperation .
the first day of testing was carried out in the basic universities of 8 checkpoints, the second day - in 38 basic universities of the checkpoint.
in this regard, the program "productivity 2020" (administrator - Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan) is one of the basic tools for the implementation of the state program for industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
applicants who have not passed all stages participate in the competitive selection by faculties and until August 21 are officially included in the list of relevant military educational institutions, "the Department of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan explained.
Recall that in June 2003, at the 27th session of UNESCO in Paris, the mausoleum of ahmet yassaoui was included in the list of world cultural heritage.
During the meeting, issues of further development of the transnational company in Kazakhstan were discussed.
In 2015, as part of the Comprehensive Employment Plan of the Regions, on behalf of the Head of State, it is planned to cover 322 thousand people from among the unemployed (more than 230 thousand) and unemployed (more than 91 thousand).
In 2015, a new law was adopted, which provides for the creation of a single coordination center on the basis of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the introduction of new standards in the field of project quality control, the introduction of international management standards, and a mechanism for attracting investors.
2010 was the first year after the global crisis, when the export of Kazakh products amounted to 60.3 billion tenge, including mineral resources, processed and finished products, "A. Arynov said.
The construction of this complex will increase the capacity of the enterprise for the production of wheels for high-speed rolling stock, passenger and freight transportation, domestic and foreign locomotive fleets from 75 thousand wheels per year to 200 wheels, "said K. bozumbayev.
In addition, the local population actively participates in the programs "Zhkzh- 2020," "Program for the development of single-industry towns," "Farmer," "Entrepreneur" and others.
Recall that the Romanian Diplomatic Institute was founded in September 2005 and has since worked on the initiative of the Romanian Foreign Ministry.
at a meeting with Japan's Minister of State for Women, Administrative Reform and Public Service. Arimura discussed issues of cooperation in the framework of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," including in the field of administrative management and public service.
The meeting considered the results of the operational work of the internal affairs bodies for 9 months of 2015, as well as measures to implement the instructions of the head of state to create and ensure the activities of the local police service.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also stressed the importance of compliance with the principles of international law by all participants in global politics and voiced the idea of convening a high-level international conference of the United Nations in 2016 on the promotion of the principles of observance of international law.
changing the attitude of people to life/act in a public organization for a healthy lifestyle will contribute not only to improving the rating of competition, but also to becoming one of the 30 developed countries.
prize fund 5 million tenge: 1st place - 2.5 million tenge, 2nd place - 1.5 million tenge, 3rd place - 1 million tenge.
exports to the Russian Federation amounted to US $6.4 billion, which is 8.7% more than in 2013, imports from the Russian Federation amounted to US $13.8 billion or 23.2% less.
At the same time, the interval of connection to the Shymkent-Beineu gas pipeline is 220 meters out of 1.08 km being built in the project, and the remaining 860 meters are connected.
person and citizen, "president," "parliament," "government," "constitutional council," "court and local government."
the largest share in the total retail trade in January-July 2015 in the republic was the city of Almaty (28.2%), the city of Astana (10.8%) and the Karaganda region (9.4%).
on the second day he prepared a talented Kazakhstani work "sos dun terien un detresse."
The meeting identified in the draft indc an unconditional goal to limit and/or reduce greenhouse gas emissions at 15% from 2021 to 2030, a conditional goal of 25% of the 1990 baseline to 2030.
This year, graduates were distributed in the specialties of "general medicine," "dentistry," "pharmacy," "nursing," "medical and health care," "protection of public dance."
in power exercise and skill, servicemen were ahead of professional rivals from other countries and became the second in their weight up to 76 kg.
Our country is one of the 10 largest world grain exporters, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in 2014 - 6,233 (23.8%).
Recall that according to the "Protocol on the Procedure for Submitting Data on Foreign Trade Statistics and Mutual Trade Statistics of December 11, 2009," the authorized authorities of the customs union countries annually carry out work on updating the data on mutual trade statistics.
In 2013, ddu, together with the blood center and the non-governmental organization One Drop of Life, completed a sociological study to find out how aware the population is about donation.
This year, more than 7,000 apartments will be purchased, 122 billion tenge will be allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, "the minister said.
all works are carried out on the construction site. all the work is not done on a construction site , not in the cold winter .
The proposed measures will ensure and maintain the ratio of the total pension to the average monthly wage in the economy at the level recommended by the International Labour Organization (at least 40%).
the organizers of the meeting are samruk-kazyna and united kingdom trade & investment.
Earlier, 50 young men who were called up for military service in 44813 military unit of the Air Defense Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan solemnly took military oath in Akmola region.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,361 million tenge, holdings - 61,703 million tenge, akk - 2,919 million tenge.
According to the results of July 2015, the cash multiplier amounted to 3.34 due to the predominance of the expansion of the monetary base compared to the growth rate of the money supply recorded in the period from January to July 2015.
since he was able to attract financing for the purpose of repurchasing 50% of kmg shares in the kmg project in accordance with the conditions of the competitive environment, creating a syndicate of highly qualified international banks.
astana invest "has become an important event in the business sphere of our state.
Today, the number of registered SMEs amounted to 47.8 thousand people, including 42.4 thousand active, which is 8.6% higher than in 2014.
this speaks of the pace and opportunities of our economy, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This year, as part of the comprehensive employment plans of the regions and the 2020 Employment Roadmap program, we plan to help 322 thousand unemployed and self-employed citizens find employment.
of which 51 medals - at international olympiads and scientific competitions, 38 medals - at republican subject olympiads, 24 medals - at republican competitions of scientific projects, 1 bronze medal - at the presidential olympiad, 17 medals - at republican competitions of scientific projects "zerde," as well as 2 bronze - at the republican language olympiad them.
Istanbul hosts the regional congress of the International Road Federation "Europe and Central Asia."
In the structure of revenues from communication services in January-September 2015, 60.9% is occupied by operational communication, Internet - 21.6%, long-distance and international types of communication - 1.4%, local telephone communication - 2.2%, other types of communication - 13.9%.
today, everyone needs this measure, "said Abdullah II.
Biopromtekhnologii LLP in the region began the implementation of the first stage of the technology for sowing elite virus-free potato seeds on 35 hectares of land.
Recall that the program "Plan of the Nation 100 Steps," voiced by the head of state, says about the need to modernize the stages of the judicial system.
The President of Kazakhstan spoke about the achievements of the country during the years of independence.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a number of laws:
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 18 applications for legalization of objects in the amount of 636.5 million tenge.
we must overcome this difficult period, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the capital is the spiritual wealth of Kazakhstan, a new appearance, a new elegance of Kazakhs.
According to the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, in 2015, 35 projects were actually financed in the amount of 32 billion 671 million tenge out of 50 billion tenge allocated for financing large entrepreneurial projects in the manufacturing industry, or 65% of the total allocated funds.
In particular, the altynbek of zhunus, who performed in the low kick, became the champion of Asia in the weight category of 75 kg and fulfilled the standard of the master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan of international class.
for domestic exporters, the nominal rate is up to 6% per annum, for leasing - no more than 4% per annum, the total loan amount - up to 10 billion tenge for one borrower, the borrowing period - up to 20 years.
According to the chief engineer of the enterprise Nikolai Bukanev, the repair of the road with a length of 920 meters and a width of 4.5 meters began 10 days ago and will be completed before the end of next week.
As of July 20, 2015 in East Kazakhstan region all departments of education, as well as East Kazakhstan region concluded contracts with suppliers of educational literature and publishing houses for the purchase of textbooks and textbooks.
18 applications for legalization of property worth 636.5 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
therefore, it is proposed to reduce hectare subsidies in crop production from 2016 and direct them to subsidize interest rates and leasing for the purchase of equipment, investment subsidies. it is proposed to reduce hectare subsidies in crop production since 2016 and send them to interest rate subsidies and leasing , investment subsidies for the purchase of equipment .
Since the beginning of 2015, the corporation has allocated 48 billion tenge for lending to agricultural producers, 34% of which were issued through direct financing through edb and credit partnerships.
The meeting was attended by 18 ambassadors of OSCE member states, the ambassador-head of the office in Astana, as well as representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office, the anti-terrorism center of the National Security Committee, the agency for public service affairs and anti-corruption, the state revenue committee of the Ministry of Finance.
Also, according to him, the bill provides for three blocks of amendments for the implementation of the draft Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
The young capital of Kazakhstan is the work of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we intend to continue this work, "said the head of state.
The energy intensity of Kazakhstan's GDP in 2008 amounted to 1.77 thousand tons (tons of oil equivalent), in 2013 this figure amounted to 1.44 tons/thousand. dollars, growth amounted to 18.6%, the department said. the power intensity of gdp in kazakhstan in 2008 amounted to 1.77 toe \ thousand dollars , in 2013 - 1.44 toe / thousand dollars , " - the department reported .
in particular, exploration work has begun with the participation of the Australian-British concern "riotinto," the "South Korean" korea resources corporation, the Australian company "iluka resources limited" and the German private investment fund "ulmus fund."
kr idm rio tinto "began exploration with large foreign investors, such as the Australian-British concern, the South Korean national company korea resources corporation, the Australian company iluka resources limited, and its own German investment fund ulmus fund.
ktz express delivered a talgo car within 28 days.
The purpose of the memorandum is the effective implementation of housing construction measures, including the regional development program until 2020, the implementation of industrial-innovative and infrastructure projects, and support for small and medium-sized businesses.
The competition of startup projects provides for 3 grants of the association "future," i place - 7 million tenge, ii place - 5 million tenge and iii place - 3 million tenge, as well as 10 million tenge - grants from the holding "bi group," - said K. Ishimbayev.
To date, 41 companies in the mining and metallurgical sector support this initiative, "said N. Radostovets, Executive Director of the Republican Association of Mining and Metallurgical Enterprises JSC during the discussion.
According to the comprehensive plan of assistance in the employment of the local population, in 2015 it is planned to provide employment for 36,346 people from among the unemployed and self-employed.
The signing of the restrictive program is an important step towards further strengthening and expanding cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the organization for the sustainable socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and in order to establish the main directions of steam activity in the country for the next 5 years.
As E. Azykhanov noted, for 160 years after the arrival of the traveler, Kazakhstan has gone through the history of development and today is known as a modern country.
A positive difference in interregional migration occurred in the cities of Almaty (23,440 people), the capital (663 people) and Akmola (1,351 people), Kostanay (536 people), Mangistau (174 people), stunning (43 people) regions.
the annual production plan will be 700 thousand cubic meters. m of concrete, which will provide the northern regions of the country with technological concrete and high-quality reinforced concrete products.
Kazakh and Uzbek experts discussed in detail the provisions of the strategic partnership agreement signed during the visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev. to the Uzbek Republic in June 2013, as well as the results of the official visit of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan to the Republic of Kazakhstan in November 2014.
the total cost of the project is 1,439,163 thousand tenge.
The foreign trade turnover of the region and the Czech Republic in January-July 2015 amounted to 1,081,8 thousand US dollars or 0.2% of the total foreign trade turnover of the region.
according to him, Kazakhstan is rich in resources.
previously, social projects were invested at the expense of the state budget. previously , the social projects were invested through the state budget .
The volume of cargo turnover in January-July 2015 amounted to 282.1 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and decreased by 6.4% compared to January-July 2014.
In my opinion, this is a mechanism for creating a new partnership between Kazakhstan and the Magata, "the minister said.
He noted that an inter-parliamentary friendship group between our countries has been created in Ukraine, which includes 15 deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as such groups as part of the parliaments of the two countries.
asel arstanbekova, disabled 3 groups, in the second direction of the program "Creating jobs through the development of entrepreneurship in the village" received a loan in the amount of 1,500,000 tenge, purchased the necessary equipment and materials, opened a sewing workshop in the village of Zhanakima, "the statement said.
Currently, 2 major projects are being implemented to modernize the city's street lighting and heating system for a total amount of 178 million US dollars.
the rich experience of Costa Ricans in the capital can be represented by institutocostarrisencedeelectricidad (ice), a state-owned company under the Ministry of Ecology that has been involved in the production and distribution of electricity for more than 60 years, said the sans.
our strategy is to expand cooperation with all countries of the world. we are intended to expand cooperation with all countries in the world .
To date, on the initiative of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs in the field of training personnel with professional education, tripartite agreements have been concluded with 14 colleges in 15 specialties and 26 enterprises of the Mangistau region. nowadays tripartite cooperation agreements in the sphere of training in vocational education have been signed between 14 colleges in 15 specialties and 26 enterprises of mangistau region .
Since 2012, as part of the reforms being carried out at the Academy, 63 research projects have been implemented in the field of improving the public service, as well as in the management of public service projects and talent management.
for this exercise, only personnel of military personnel who have made at least 10 parachute jumps, can swim on water, can use rescue and swimming aids are allowed.
this is our common great heritage, "said the head of state.
The congress of leaders of world and traditional religions on the basis of regional, global integration transformations and associations and the ekyu summit organized in 2010 will start in this country.
125 points were received by 2 students: samat simbat rainbow, a graduate of the linguistic gymnasium "Nadezhda Poplar District" and laura abdazimov, a graduate of a boarding school for gifted children with three languages ​ ​ of study in the Tulkubas region.
According to the Minister for Economic Integration, "On June 22, a final meeting of the working group was held in Geneva, following which it was officially announced the completion of negotiations to determine the conditions for Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO."
we fulfill the wishes of the head of state N. Nazarbayev, every year 5,000 children come to the capital, which includes three new schools.
the purpose of the parliamentary council is the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. Nr zhol Nazarbaeva - a way to the future "of November 11, 2014 and the State program of development of education for 2011-2020.
Under the Program for the Development of Regions until 2020, the following areas of housing construction are being implemented: credit housing provided through the housing system, rental housing for citizens in line through local executive bodies, rental housing for young families, commercial housing, housing through kick and individual housing construction.
Within the framework of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, issues of expanding trade, economic and investment cooperation, assistance in the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, prospects of partnership in the field of traditional and alternative energy were discussed in detail.
the bronze medal went to the freestyle wrestler in the weight of 61 kg, the champion of Kazakhstan, the silver medalist of the 2014 World Cup among military personnel to corporal Eldos Abikenov.
As of July 30, 2015, all education departments of Akmola region, as well as the Department of Education of Akmola region concluded contracts with suppliers of educational literature and publishing houses for the purchase of textbooks and textbooks.
As the head of the committee noted, the most attractive for investors is the possibility of obtaining the right to subsoil use in 25 days according to the Australian method, than in 540 days, that is, the term is reduced by 18 times.
Among the young soldiers, the battalion commander noted the Chernavsky Alexander, who scored 93 points for performing the fourth exercise of control shooting with ak-74.
In total, 60 heads of breeding cattle will be put up for auction, including 20 heads - chestnuts of auliekol breeds, 10 heads of Kazakh White Guards, 30 heads of Kazakh cattle.
for example, in one farm there are not enough 5 harvesters who should know, we should always exchange information with employment centers.
The winners got the opportunity to take part in a professional photo shoot with the subsequent publication of photos in the specialized calendar "Bees of Heroes" for 2016.
In order to improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis, despite the unrest in the global economy, 3 billion tenge will be allocated from this fund for three years to support the country's economy, "- noted K. Zhakpov.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to provide preschool education, 92 kindergartens and 17 mini-centers are planned to be opened in the region by the end of this year.
Kazakhstan will introduce new disciplines. kazakhstan will introduce new school subjects .
It is worth noting that these operational fees in 2015 were the last event in the general system of joint operational and combat training of formations and means of the collective security system and management bodies.
Within the framework of the initiative to ensure industrialization and economic growth, it is planned to attract at least 10 transnational corporations to the manufacturing sector of Kazakhstan for the production of export-oriented goods. it is expected to attract at least 10 transnational corporations in the processing sector of kazakhstan to create export-oriented goods .
26 projects in the amount of 11.27 billion tenge, the total production capacity of meat and meat products 41.3 thousand tons per year.
we plan that 10% of the assets of the banking system should belong to Islamic financing and set ourselves a task, "he said.
In 2012, we provided more than 10 million services, and in 2014 - more than 35 million, for the six months of this year - more than 19 million, "commented Ruslan Ensebayev, Chairman of the Board of National Information Technologies.
including the proposal to create an international center for the development of "green" technologies in the capital is one of the 13 goals of sustainable development, "said the school.
695 people were employed in social jobs, 420 people were involved in youth practice.
The Kazakh-Spanish documentary film "Forgotten in Karaganda," shot by the international association of broadcasting nexos with the financial support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, was recognized as the best documentary at the California Film Festival in 2014 and awarded the California Film Awards.
During the visit, the Expo 2017 Commissioner met with the Deputy Mayor of San Francisco, heads of googlearth, stanfordglobalthermostat, obscuradigital, planetlabs, as well as Stanford University academic groups.
G. Abdykalikova noted that in the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" aimed at entering the 30 developed countries of the world, the tasks set by the Head of State require strict control over budget expenditures allocated for the implementation of state programs.
Opening the meeting of the commission, the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan noted the need to widely apply the potential of the international scholarship of the President of Kazakhstan "the future" in the implementation of the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state."
In addition, funds will be allocated from the regional budget to provide means of rehabilitation for people with disabilities, thus 240.5 million tenge will be allocated in 2015, which is 21 million tenge more than last year.
I myself participate in all international summits dedicated to this issue, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
On the first reform of e. Sagadiyev noted that companies wishing to open a business and raise more than $20 million in investments will conclude a separate investment agreement, which should contain permanent taxation.
Until 2005, the volume of foreign direct investment was very small, that is, as much foreign direct investment as possible was attracted to the manufacturing sectors during the years of existence compared to the years of independence, "he said.
In the first half of 2015, it amounted to 3.04%, and the level of tenge devaluation amounted to 1.4%.	for the first half of 2015 it amounted to 3.04 % , the level of inflation is 1.4 % .	1,93
At the same time, he expressed confidence that the close partnership of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan will have a significant impact on the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps and five institutional reforms."
This year this program was continued, 2.7 billion tenge was allocated from the budget.
The President of the International Turkic Academy shared his plans to hold a meeting in 2016 at the UN headquarters on the topic "Dialogue along the Silk Road" with the wide participation of diplomats and scientists from different countries.
In 2015, 1,495 graduates of intellectual schools or 88% were admitted to universities in Kazakhstan, these are Nazarbayev University (309), Eurasian National University (256), Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi (187), Medical University "Capital" (141), Kazakh-British Technical University (125).
employers include such large companies as Anpp, Morgemschevroil, Gigermunaiservice, Schlumberger, Fircroft, halliburton, Ersay Caspian and others.
As for further plans, in accordance with the plan, 150 thousand square meters of housing will be introduced by the end of the year, "B. Palymbetov said.
in general, this is metallurgy (11 projects, 497 billion tenge) mechanical engineering (11 projects, 21 billion tenge), petrochemistry (7 projects, 30.3 billion tenge), chemical production (7 projects, 4.5 billion tenge), pharmaceuticals (4 projects, 11 billion tenge), construction industry (43 projects, 52.7 billion tenge) (4 projects, 3.7 billion tenge), food production (40 projects, 47.4 billion tenge), energy (7 projects, 65.3 billion tenge), space (1 project, 63.2 billion tenge).
exports to Belarus amounted to 61.3 million. US dollars, which is 5.2% more than in 2013, imports from the Republic of Belarus amounted to 0.8 billion. USD or 10.8% more.
on the first day, testing was carried out at 8 checkpoints (basic universities), on the second - at 38, and on the third day - at 30 basic universities.
now the first 50 applicants from Aktobe and Aktobe regions have arrived here, and by July 26 about 130 teenagers from other regions of Kazakhstan are expected to arrive.
At the forum with the participation of the business community of the two countries, 20 documents were signed for a total of $500 million, including the production of agricultural machinery, engineering, food, textiles, the oil sector and construction industries.
The event was attended by more than 60 people, including representatives of the Alberta and Manitoba provincial governments, employees of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development of Canada, export development canada export promotion agencies, the business community of the two countries, including Almaty, nuclear, Mangistau and South Kazakhstan regions.
According to him, 8 years ago there was a need to implement projects aimed at strengthening the family and preventing social orphanhood.
"agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic (accession agreement) to the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014, signed on December 23, 2014 in Moscow at a meeting of the supreme Eurasian Economic Council;
The program of 5 institutional reforms on the foreign policy aspect is a signal to the world community that Kazakhstan is a young state, nevertheless it can formulate its national development goals and specify its priority areas, the expert said.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 18 applications for legalization of objects in the amount of 636.5 million tenge. as for the legalization of property located outside the country , the bodies of state revenues have received 18 applications totaling 636.5 million tenge .
as a result, the competition commission determined: "best iron master," "best crane driver," "best electrician," "best plumber," "best welder," "best technician," "best metal distributor," "best tailor," "best public transport driver," "best cleaner" "(painting technician) identified 20 winners in 10 nominations.
Placing 60 cylinders in the warehouse of the plant, planned for the fact that the materials would be consumed in greater quantities than established, did not technically raise any questions.
our company is oriented towards export. our company is export-oriented .
after their launch, it is planned to produce 170 thousand tons of building gypsum, about 100 thousand tons of dry building mixtures, 60 thousand tons of microcalcite and 60 thousand square meters. meters of perlite per year, "said the vice president of Dzhambylgypsum.
that is, any Kazakhstani producer can receive support and recover 50 percent of the costs if advertising abroad is necessary.
most of the actually spent funds are in the regions - 19% (i within the tranche) and Almaty - 24% (ii tranches), in the industry segment - on metallurgical industry projects - 23% (i tranche) and 25% (ii tranche).
The head of state thanked the President of China for the warm welcome and noted that relations between our countries have been constantly developing for more than 20 years.
The Head of State stressed the importance of effective use of two Kazakh Earth remote sensing spacecraft launched in 2014 for environmental monitoring, preliminary identification of environmental risks.
this is a unique find for our region. this is a unique find for our region .
The Tatcraft-invest soo construction project was included in the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
18 applications for legalization of property worth 636.5 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan. as for the legalization of property located outside the country , the bodies of state revenues have received 18 applications totaling 636.5 million tenge .
the main crew: ship commander, hgs-45/46 flight engineer Russian wolf sergey, Kazakh cosmonaut, 2nd month flight engineer under the ep-18 aymbet program, astronaut of the European Space Agency, hgs ep-18 flight engineer Andreas mogensen.
In the region, 4 projects of the republican industrialization map are being implemented with an investment volume of 1 trillion tenge and the creation of about 2 thousand jobs, the report said.
Since 2014, its composition has been strengthened, qualified specialists from a number of educational institutions in the country have been involved, even the specialists of the Baiterek holding have been introduced.
At the same time, according to preliminary estimates of the National Bank, the volume of gross international reserves for the month at the end of October 2015 increased by 1.6% and amounted to 28.66 billion US dollars.
water supply, sewerage system, control over accumulation and distribution of waste, the index of physical volume of industrial products in January-June of this year amounted to 93.4% by January-June of 2014.
there are no risks for service providers, because we left the requirements for Kazakh content there at the level of 50%, "said the director of the department.
Starting from September this year, the introduction of a new standard of education in primary schools will begin, training programs in 30 schools have been tested, further funding for 10-11 schools will be carried out in two regions of the country, "said B. Saparbayev.
tax authorities on property privatization received an application for privatization of 17 housing facilities outside the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 636.2 million tenge.
The head of state expressed confidence that graduates of educational institutions in the future will participate in the radical renewal of Kazakhstan, the implementation of "100 concrete steps" voiced by me, in the further development of the country.
As a result of the overhaul, a special program for the development and modernization of the country's housing and communal services proposes to increase the savings in heat consumption to 30%.
The manning of a fire station in this village additionally protects from fires the lake village with a population of more than 2 thousand people, the area of ​ ​ the forest belt.
In turn, Kazkommertsbank noted that within the framework of the program of social and economic development of Almaty for 2017-2019 300 billion tenge will be allocated for housing construction, infrastructure development, financing of small and medium-sized businesses, sponsorship of culture and charity.
As you know, today the share of the main energy consumption in Kazakhstan or 50% is in the industrial complex, 30% in the housing and communal services sector and 20% in the transport industry.
over the past 3 years, the academy has been accepted as a member of leading international organizations, such as the American Society for Public Administration in Public Administration (aspa), a network of institutions and schools of public administration in Europe nispasee (Slovakia), and the international association of schools and institutions of public administration (iasia).
In the program of industrial and innovative development until 2020, the head of state set the task of bringing the energy intensity of GDP to 25%, and by 2050 - to 50%, "said A. Rau.
The musicians toured with great success to 170 cities and 50 countries of the world, in particular, including Italy, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Aksh, Australia, Japan, Brazil, Venezuela, Cambodia and others.
The main feature of the competition is that the 30 best in various nominations will be selected by popular vote of product manufacturers. the point of this competition is that 30 of the best manufacturers in the various categories will be selected by popular vote .
The opening of the program took place in the worldlearning office.
Standards have been introduced for determining the differential size of the job quota for persons with disabilities in the amount of 2 to 4 per cent, depending on the total number of employees.
It contains articles and reviews of foreign countries, as well as public figures, scientists about the role of the President of Kazakhstan. Nazarbayev and grandfather of the law, Kazakhstan's achievements within the framework of legal development over 20 years, the organizers noted.
First of all, in order to strengthen the activities of the regional branches of the party due to the optimization of the staff structure of the central apparatus, the number of branch employees increased by 43%, that is, 358 people.
At the same time, according to him, the share of Kazakhstan's business in comparison with developed countries remains at the level of 25%, and in developed countries it exceeds 60%.
According to the report, under the comprehensive privatization program for 2014-2015, it is planned to sell 493 objects and transfer the object to trust management for subsequent redemption.
In 2007, a special economic zone "National Industrial Petrochemical Technopark" was created for 25 years, which will attract foreign investment in the oil and gas industry. " sydykov.
together with Kazakhstanis, units from Bosnia, Denmark, Ireland and 14 teams from various branches and branches of the United Kingdom took part in the march.
o.Spencer warmly recalled the successful actions between the Assembly and Kazakhstan in the preparation of the historic summit in the capital at the initiative of the President of Nazarbayev. in the year of Kazakhstan's chairmanship of ECU, as well as in holding the first trans-Asian parliamentary forum in 2010.
It is worth noting that during the reconstruction of roads, 90% of the materials come from Kazakhstan products, the report said.
along with domestic dance ensembles "naz," "triumph," "native land," "dukhsara," "zhorga," "shylkyma," "altynai," "white zhaiyk," "akku" "blue Turks," dance ensembles of Turkey, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan participate.
At the same time, funds from sales were settled: in the republican budget - 1,430 million tenge, in the regional budget - 832 million tenge, holdings - 58,366 million tenge, as well as 2,917 million tenge.
small and medium-sized enterprises receive preferential lending through the Development Fund on the following conditions: the nominal interest rate is no more than 6% per annum, the availability period under the credit line is up to one year, the maximum limit per borrower is 1 850 million tenge.
In addition, as part of the implementation of the 100 Concrete Steps Plan of the Nation, a round table was held on the topic "Innovative approaches in the development of the state language and trilingual education."
18 applications for privatization of facilities worth 636.5 million tenge were received on privatization of property outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
then drivers in black clothes, cold color. "150 I'm waiting for you. "
The Vice Minister said that according to various expert estimates, Kazakhstan annually receives from 300-500 thousand to 1 million labor migrants, of which 15% get infectious diseases, including tuberculosis and the act.
the plant received design and technological documentation, as well as modern equipment for major repairs of successfully commissioned T-72 tanks. As part of the second stage, the corresponding production sites were reconstructed in 2012, and the construction of a new workshop for the overhaul of T-72 tanks and self-propelled artillery installations began.
clinical protocols for the treatment of type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, pregnant women, the period of birth and postpartum diseases have been introduced and improved in all regions.
Within three days, young enthusiasts traveled 550 km during the autumn artistic appearance of our country, having met people with whom they met about the great steppe, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
The Prime Minister emphasized that the idea of ​ ​ creating the Eurasian Economic Union was announced by the head of state in 1994 at a lecture at Moscow State University.
National Export and Investment Agency "kaznex invest" "memorandum of understanding between companies;
It is worth noting that the IV Paralympic Games of Kazakhstan are a preparation for winning a license for the Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) in 2016.
According to the managing director of logistics of KHTZ, by 2020 the average transit potential of the Chinese-Turkish route will reach 180 thousand.
According to employees of the Department of State Revenue in the city of Astana, citizens who have taken advantage of the right to legalize their funds will be able to save 10% of the amount of legalized money.
The first gold medal in the piggy bank of Kazakhstan at the xxviii world summer universiade was won by three-time champion of the Asian Games in 2014, student of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi Dmitry Balandin.
During the meeting, a number of key issues of bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed.
As part of the ongoing work to remove Kazakhstan from the number of 50 countries with a difficult prison situation, a number of options for restricting freedom have been given - restrictions on freedom, public and fines, "he said.
The company has been operating for 20 years in the field of transport, forwarding and logistics services, freight transportation in the European-Kazakh direction and in the opposite direction for the transportation of agricultural and food products.
As part of the program of industrial and innovative development in the gold mining industry, it is planned to implement 5 projects worth 141.9 billion tenge.
at the memorial of 28 Panfilov, brought from Alma-Ata, an eternal flame burns at the foot of the monument, which is part of the burning fire.
As Deputy Chairman of the KHA Y. Togzhanov noted, within the framework of the Plan of the Nation, "100 concrete steps" kha defined the main mechanisms for the formation of a "nation of a united future."
The State Prize named after al-Farabi in the field of science and technology was announced by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in January 2015, it is awarded for the best scientific research, introduced innovations.
during the session e. Idrissov noted that the Turkic world in the vast territory of Eurasia is more than 200 million people from 40 different ethnic groups.
in addition, it is one of the assets necessary for Almaty to hold the 2022 Winter Olympics, "said David Homan, general director of the international anti-doping organization.
estimated 372.2 million tenge.
Today, within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, the issue of developing beach, recreational tourism on lakes Shalkar and Imantau in the Ayyrtau region is being considered, "said the head of the region, Erik Sultanov.
on the kapchagai-taldykorgan site, construction work is underway on the project of a 157-kilometer diamond-growth project, carried out by bypassing the city of sarkand, the department said.
it's very important.
Kazakh oil and gas and Italian drylmes s.p.a. Memorandum of intent between the company and aksai industrial park llp;
Works totaling KZT540 mln were performed.
Recall that the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan was developed as part of the implementation of the Convention for the Modernization of the Pension System of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030 in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of June 18, 2014.
It is expected that the construction of the poultry farm will help create 700 new jobs, improve the energy and water supply of the Bulandyn region and contribute to the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the region.
In 2014, for the first time since the establishment of technology parks, net profit amounted to 46.2 million tenge, compared to 2013, administrative expenses were optimized by 18%, as well as staff units vary.
project 1.9 billion tenge.
China, whose share in the country's total trade turnover reached 20% and which became our largest partner in foreign trade turnover, today has grown significantly in the foreign policy sphere of Kazakhstan.
During the action, at the stationary stand of the road watch post along the highway with alma atinka, on the way from the Ulan district to the village of Kassyma Kaisenov, representatives of the Zhas Otan organization, together with traffic police officers, sequentially recorded signs about reducing speed from 40, 70, 90, 100 km/h.
Recall that according to the government decree "On some issues of privatization," Zerde holding plans to sell a 33% stake in the University of Information Technologies joint-stock company as part of the second wave of privatization.
all projects are created for this purpose.
It is noted that the new enterprise, whose annual capacity is 40 thousand square meters. m of housing, and in the future, it is expected to increase the annual capacity to 100 thousand square meters. m, will become not only a major producer of building materials, but also a major developer of high-quality and affordable housing in the region.
The President of Kazakhstan in his policy document "100 concrete steps," in particular, in the second chapter of the so-called "ensuring the rule of law" noted that "a gradual reduction in the public service of bailiffs" will increase the effectiveness of bailiffs to a new level.
As you know, the first 15 steps of the national plan are devoted to the development and modernization of the public service, in connection with which various approaches to development and implementation in the civil service are being developed.
It is noted that an electronic auction in relation to some shares alienated by the English method of trading will take place on the web portal www.gosreestr.kz on August 2015, 11 at 10-00 o'clock Astana time.
Kazakhstan informed the Chinese side about the approval of the new version of the Rules for the Carriage of Passengers and Baggage by Road, which entered into force on August 6, 2015.
first floor wall length (cd = 142m) and foot length (ab = 131m).
It is worth noting that during the implementation of the National Plan 100 concrete steps, the system in the field of education and science was modernized.
of these, 320 pupils of military-patriotic clubs from 16 regions of the first Kazakhstan, 8 republican boarding schools (Almaty, Shymkent, Karaganda, families, Pavlodar, aktobe) 160 pupils of the Lyceum "lion" and the "young ulan" school, 250 students of 25 military departments from higher educational institutions, about 80 representatives from group leaders, "the Ministry of Defense said.
As a result of close cooperation and fruitful negotiations with foreign partners in relevant areas, 44 bilateral interstate agreements in the field of criminal proceedings were concluded, including Spanish, Italian, Chinese, Hungarian and Canadian.
Members of the commission studied materials from the families of applicants and selected 16 families from 32 families for a popular vote. with a servant.
It is noted that the parties exchanged statistical information on the current state of international road transport, on traffic volumes for 2014 and for the first half of 2015.
Governor of the region noted that another kindergarten for 140 places is being built in this area, all this thanks to state programs adopted at the direct direction of the head of state.
It will be attended by ministers of culture, information, education and science of Kazakhstan, Iran, Egypt, Belarus and Kyrgyzstan, well-known scientists, state and public figures of 18 countries of the world.
In the Semikarinsky district, the air has warmed up sharply over the past weekend, so the average yield is expected to be 66.5 centners per hectare, and in the Kamyshlinsky region - 8 centners per hectare.
It is worth noting that over the past five years from 2009 to 2014, 6,336 apartments for military personnel were commissioned in various cities and regions of Kazakhstan, including 201 private houses out of 273 apartments.
The Palace of Peace and Harmony was created in 2006 with the aim of holding a special "congress of leaders of world and traditional religions" by the world-famous Baritanian architect of Norman Foster.
Also, the rector of the Karaganda educational institution noted that this year the university began studying 12 undergraduates, including those funded under the project.
The report of the Commission on Human Rights under the President of Kazakhstan "On the situation with the protection of human rights in Kazakhstan" was sent for analysis of the situation from January 1, 2014 to April 30, 2015.
According to the Minister of National Economy, in order to stimulate the development of entrepreneurship, the program provides for attracting credit funds of microfinance organizations in the amount of 155 billion tenge for subsequent financing of business entities in the processing industry sector in 2015 by 100 billion tenge, projects in the field of small and medium-sized businesses.
Nursultan Nazarbayev: a historical and biographical book of a person in power "Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev - the founder of an independent state," "Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Kazakhstani model of building a state, continued research" "peace about Nazarbayev," "sage," "independent Kazakhstan and the leader of the nation."
Kazkontent also received a letter of thanks and a grant of 100 thousand tenge provided by the Korean ethnocultural center.
in particular, the third meeting of the YalkGP was held in the capital from July 11 to 12, 2007, and in September 2010, a conference of the global initiative to combat nuclear terrorism on countering the financing of terrorism.
in terms of sources of financing, state budget funds make up 27.5%, own funds of enterprises and organizations - 55%, bank loans - 5.8%, other borrowed funds - 11.7%, the report said.
Today is a wonderful day, "said the minister.
We remind that within the framework of the second five-year plan of industrialization in Kyzylorda region 148 projects worth 37 billion tenge will be implemented, within the framework of which more than 3 thousand jobs will be created.
Applications for participation are accepted online, www.natd.gov.kz until October 25, 2015 on the official website of Tdua JSC.
in general, with the "rio tinto" of the Republic of Kazakhstan they agreed on the transfer to the Kazakh side of technologies previously absent in the country, as well as on the training of 60 Kazakhstani specialists.
Now this period is 15 years, responsibility for minors provides for up to 20 years in prison, "said I. Lepekh.
in power supply, gas supply, steam supply and air conditioning, the index of physical volume of industrial products in January-June of this year compared to January-June of 2014 amounted to 99.7%.
During the seminar, the results of the investment project "Conservation of forests and enhancement of the forest-steppe of the republic" were summed up, which was carried out in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the ratification of the loan and grant agreement between the Government of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of June 7, 2007.
more than 5 million children live in the country, and each of them has the right to protect his life, inviolability of honor, protection from negative impacts of the social environment, preservation of health, spiritual and moral development, "said Zabira orazgaliyeva.
He noted that good indicators were achieved over 5 months: the volume of agriculture grew by 3%, investments - 1.5 times, housing commissioning - by 11%, average monthly wages - by 8%.
It is worth noting that today the budget under the Unified program of support of entrepreneurs for subsidizing interest rates is 27 billion tenge, and for the current year and for the coming year there are no restrictions, "he said.
As part of the 2015 sowing and harvesting campaign, Kazagro National Holding received applications from farms of three regions of the region to finance agricultural activities worth more than 900 million tenge (yuko - 528.4 million tenge, Zhambyl region - 91 million tenge, Kyzylorda region - 283.1 million tenge)
Created in 1930 on the basis of military warehouse No. 4 to provide international assistance to Afghans during the Great Patriotic War, this department accepted ready-made military products from manufacturing plants and sent echelons with continuous ammunition to the front.
the concern plans to expand commercial and industrial participation in Kazakhstan, the main stage of which will be the launch of full-cycle production in Kostanay, scheduled for the end of 2016.
The Kazakh side invited the Katay side to visit the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana in 2017, and also asked to bring this invitation to all Chinese carriers.
After considering all opinions and proposals, a draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of April 16, 2014 No. 356" On Establishing the Borders of the Border Strip, Quarantine Strip and Border Zone "was developed.
development of Kazakhstan grain export infrastructure and its processing: 27 projects worth 18.53 billion tenge were approved, production of grain processing products in the amount of up to 277.6 thousand tons per year with a transshipment capacity of 3.15 million tons of grain per year.
During the meeting, issues of international road transport between Kazakhstan and Poland were discussed within the framework of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Poland on international road transport of May 23, 1997.
give children life in our fund! " Thanks to your support, more than 1,300 children have been saved in 10 years.
children's "alley of artists," "leaders," "happy English," "travelers," "defile," "dombra," "magic square," "green patrol," "education," "speed," "craft," "city of my fantasy" "photo gallery," "robotics."
By the end of this year, we will transfer another 540 bicycles to postmen in the regions of the country, and by the end of 2017 we will provide 4600 all postmen with bicycles, "the head of the Kazpost press service shared to Bairam Aziz
by the end of this year, the development fund "plans to attract a third tranche from the Asian Development Bank of $228 million, while the currency risks of the fund will be insured," he said.
in this composition, we reviewed everything and decided that from February 1, 2016 we chair the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission, "said a. Lukashenko.
On May 31, athletes won the international competitions giro d'italia 2015 and were recognized as the best team in the nomination "Best Team."
Participants of the parade of 23 cars with the brand chevrolet cruze carried the flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the triumphal arch and across Ordzhonikidze street to the coast of Ishim.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor temirkhan Mendigaliyev JSC, the modernization of the highway between the capital and temirtau will be timed to coincide with the expo-2017 exhibition and completely completed by the end of 2016.
So, over 17 years, the population of the city has almost tripled, the gross regional product has increased 65 times, industrial production has increased 17 times, "the akim said.
This bill was developed as part of the implementation of the 84th step of the National Plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms determined by the head of state at the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on May 5, 2015.
this corridor is not only more competitive than the transport of goods by sea, but can also carry up to 15 million tons of goods per year along the corridor.
In 2011, construction work began, facilities were put into operation in 2012, in 2013 our products in accordance with long-term agreements, "ktzh," "kastemirtrans," "joint-stock companies" Avrz "and" caring locomotive, "kakormvagon," Kazakhstan car-building plant "," "began to enter Kazakh companies, such as limited liability partnership" rich coal. "
In 2014, trade between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Islamic Republic of Iran amounted to $986.3 million, including Kazakhstan's exports to Iran amounted to $892.5 million, Kazakhstan's imports from Iran - $93.8 million, the report said.
According to the press service, 112 criminal cases were received in the first half of 2015, 109 of them were completed, 886 civil cases were received, 122 of them were left without consideration, 95 cases were left unresolved.
the construction of an inflatable dam taking into account the influx of water in the canals in summer and in winter - cold time, according to the project, should last for 3 years.
The commission was attended by representatives of the security council, ministries of energy, agriculture, national economy, internal affairs, health and social development, as well as investment and development.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, 424 pairs of medals will be played in seven Paralympic sports.
Over the past 5 years, the volume of flower beds in the city has grown 3 times, today it is more than 200 thousand square meters, 16 parks and a square have been reconstructed.
for example, the acquisition of a sports and entertainment complex "hippodrome alma," the construction of a "blue beach," 5 pedestrian lanes, the construction of administrative facilities in the Nauryzbay district.
Main goal of a forum - comprehensive discussion of the draft of the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate" and preparation of offers, promoting of the idea of the nationwide "eternal country", the national plan of "100 concrete steps of further development of construction of the state".
As the deputy noted, representatives of 130 nationalities live in peace and harmony in Kazakhstan, where not a single person feels divided by nationality.
Training is provided free of charge, those who only need to undergo psychological selection, medical examination and the course of a young fighter who scored 30 points from beta and kt.
Recall that today Almaty builders in honor of their professional holidays put into operation a new clinic for 500 visits in the Alatau microdistrict.
During the visit to Prague, a concert of the youth chamber choir was held on the central square of the Czech National Theater, the choir of which was created from 32 people's representatives: Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia (Tatarstan) and Turkey.
During the meeting, attention was paid to the discussion of concrete measures for the further development of the judicial system within the framework of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps - a modern state for all."
Recall that the national championship "sage kazakhstan-2015" was held in the capital on July 7.
Today, graduates who in the future will become officers of the armed forces and other law enforcement agencies, real defenders of their homeland, as well as guests of the event were shown the defile of the reduced parade calculation of the honor guard company 68665 a/b of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As part of the signed document, the parties agreed to build high-quality and affordable housing in Pavlodar by 1 square meters not more than 145 thousand tenge.
The parties also exchanged views on the draft bilateral agreements, which are planned to be signed on July 7-8, 2015 during the visit of the Prime Minister of India to Kazakhstan.
These tasks set by the head of state at the session and in the program "100 concrete steps" are a priority of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. Kalashnikov.
Today, the national plan - 100 steps - very highly appreciates these goals and tasks set by the head of state by the expert community in society.	in this context , 100 concrete steps are a set of institutional reforms on the main key areas of development of kazakhstan society .	2,03
The main goal of the kazakhstan infrastructure fund is to invest in infrastructure projects.	the main goal of kazakhstan infrastructure fund should be the investment of infrastructure projects .	2,03
for the first time in the history of this authoritative international organization, a record number of participants in the world conference - more than 600 researchers of music and art from 70 countries of the world arrived to participate in it.	members of the board of ictm noted another feature of kazakhstan 's forum - in the history of this authoritative international organization the conference brought together the representative number of participants and countries - more than 600 music and art scholars from 70 countries for the first time .	2,03
In 2009, managers of entertainment establishments are responsible for locating minors at their facilities at night.	in 2009 the responsibility of the owners of entertainment for visiting such places by minors at night was introduced .	2,03
26 students deprived of parental mercy will eat free of charge at the university, Akmola Media Center reports.
now, given that the maximum outer diameter of the center of "smoke" is 90 meters, it is necessary to produce the largest outer diams of the circus.
The event was also attended by representatives of the management of 2 technical secretariats from the Netherlands, as well as 15 representatives of Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Georgia, Cuba, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Vietnam and Ukraine, "the statement said.
during our negotiations, we paid special attention to agriculture, since in our country about 40% of the population is engaged in agriculture. during the talks , we prioritize the negotiating process on agriculture , because we have about 40 % of the population live in rural areas and their daily income , prosperity and employment are linked with the agricultural sector .
The President of Kazakhstan recalled that in 1996, when the situation in northern Afghanistan worsened, an emergency meeting of the countries of Central Asia and Russia took place in our country and these negotiations became the basis for the adoption of the resolution.
Taking into account the importance of railway transport for the country's economy, comprehensive systematic work was carried out on the further development of the railway transport sector of Kazakhstan, which became the basis of the program of integration and development of the transport infrastructure system of Kazakhstan until 2020, "said A. Asaubaev.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 21 applications for legalization of residential facilities in the amount of 654.2 million tenge.
In order to address the issues of ensuring the quality, safety and accessibility of medicines, the Kazakh national drug form will be created by the end of 2015 (hereinafter - kuf). in order to address issues of quality , safety and affordability of medicines to the population , before the end of 2015 the kazakhstan national drug formulary ( kndf ) will be developed , " duysenova said .
The Prime Minister of the State Council praised the results of the state visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to China on August 30 - September 3, 2015, where 33 documents were signed, including 28 documents in the field of industrialization and investment worth $23.4 billion.
During the meeting, the issues of women's active participation in the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, support for women entrepreneurs, the formation of women among state and public leadership, and family and demographic policy were discussed.
moreover, such material was preserved at the enterprise, which has not grown for 50 years, and an additional 60 cylinders do not pose a danger to the safety and ecology of the region, "he said.
The agriculture program was developed by the fund in 2010 in order to support rural entrepreneurs and agricultural producers with a small land plot.
During the conversation, the parties discussed the agenda of the upcoming 128th session of the IOC, where the city of the 2022 Winter Olympics will be determined.
b.baybek informed that a memorandum totaling 10 billion tenge has been signed, according to which Almaty enterprises will supply their products for the construction of Expo-2017 exhibition facilities.
standard weapons, with the involvement of ten units of armored personnel carriers of the btr-80a type, at full combat equipment, servicemen covered a distance of 290 kilometers.
at the same time, since 2016, the obligations of the state budget to pay 20 percent mandatory pension contributions have been excluded from the monetary support of employees of armed groups.
n. a. Nazarbayev took part in the grand opening of the academy on July 2, 1998, and in 2000 the president visited the reconstructed main building.
In taekwando competitions in weight category 58 kg gold was received by Nursultan Mamaev, student of South Kazakhstan State University named after Auezov.
Issues of deepening of political and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iran were discussed during the meeting.
The fact that Kazakhstan will become a full member of the World Trade Organization will be officially announced on December 15 this year at a ministerial conference in Nairobi.
for example, Germany went through a crisis without problems, since there are many small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, which provide 90% of the economy.
The head of state announced 5 institutional reforms, in which there are not many issues to the economy, since the country is implementing the second five-year development plan and the Nұr Zhol program has been adopted.
the electronic encyclopedia of Kazakhstan is an important project. the creation of an electronic encyclopedia of kazakhstan is an important project .
These measures will allow judges since 2016 to work in the conditions of modernized legislation as part of reforms carried out in accordance with the National Plan.
In addition, memoranda with poultry farmers of the republic and 23 large producers of Akmola region were signed to provide the city of Astana with food products.
Recall that as part of the implementation of the smart astana project, Astana Innovations is introducing a number of smart projects to include the white capital among the 50 "smart" cities in the world.
The cost of the highway construction project is 761 million tenge, the construction of which began in June 2014.
I proposed at the Anshka meeting the creation of an organization for cooperation, security and development in Asia. i proposed to create the council on cooperation , security and development in asia .
At the beginning of 2014, a resident of the Sairam district will have to open his own business, register as an individual entrepreneur and launch a fist mule.
metal rolling production is very energy-intensive: the average daily consumption is 18 megawatts, so the project provides for the construction of a power plant with a capacity of 38.9 MW.
We expect that participants from 20 countries who will take part in the conference will confirm their participation of 46 scientists from countries such as Turkey, Italy, France, Germany and Turkic-speaking countries, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, "said A. Toleshev.
- Joint declaration by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the President of the French Republic;
Recall that in 1994, within the walls of Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, the head of state first proposed the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The head of the city instructed to launch a boiler room before October of this year, during this period to ensure uninterrupted power supply to polyclinic No. 28.
Despite the fact that uranium is not used in abuba, the very presence of a bank of low-enriched uranium in magate is an important guarantee, we have 130 plants around the world, and I think that the use of nuclear energy by 2030 will be expanded, "he said.
connection point - the number of consultants in the self-service sector - 2015, according to modular statistics - 1814, according to the public access point - 1053 certificates.
in the direction of "identity and unity" discussed today, 6 steps are envisaged. zholdasbayev analyzed each in the direction.
the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Croatia, Georgia, as a result of the negotiations, received the right to state support only 5% of the "yellow basket."
So, this year, 572 people were employed in social jobs as part of youth practice, 455 residents of the region received vocational education, 28 citizens were sent to retraining courses.
According to the results of the competition, the companies "hyundai trans auto," "lg electronics almaty kazakhstan" and "rahat" won first place in three nominations.
As part of the head of state's visit to Germany in February 2012, a memorandum was signed on the construction of the second stage of the plant for the production of construction materials between white and kaznex invest knauffs.
In turn, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Konyuk invited the participants of the event to the 26th meeting of the CIS in Belarus in 2016.
According to the data as of August 22 of the current year, the indicator of availability of textbooks in the country amounted to 98.7%, while in the capital and Almaty, Karaganda, Kostanay, Mangistau, Pavlodar, Akmola, Atyrau, Almaty, zko, sko and Kyzylorda regions - 100%. as of august 22 , 100 % of the schools in almaty , astana , karaganda , kostanay , mangistau , pavlodar , akmola , atyrau , almaty , west kazakhstan , east kazakhstan region and kyzylorda regions are provided with the textbooks .
y. Sadibekov told youth representatives about the progress in the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation and the work of parliament, and also answered their questions.
The complex includes an advisory and diagnostic department, general experience, a department of doctors of prevention and socio-psychological care, a day hospital with 20 beds and an outpatient surgery center.	the complex includes a consultative and diagnostic department , department of general practice , prevention and psychosocial support , day hospital with 20 beds and an outpatient surgery center .	2,06
Following the meeting, Aliyev Nurali thanked Toivakka for his interest in the capital of Kazakhstan, and also expressed confidence in the active participation of the Finnish side in the VI international investment forum "astana invest 2015."
According to the contest plan, each of the twelve girls will decorate the sheets of a certain month of the special calendar for 2016.
the silver prize went to the sports school of the Aral region No. 20, and the bronze went to the sports school of the Syr Darya district No. 11.
as part of the implementation of five institutional reforms, they presented conceptual documents in Malay on the "Kazakhstan path - 2050," the path to the future, "" 100 concrete steps. "
At the same time, the volume of consolidated transportation and pumping of oil and petroleum products amounted to 31 million 328 thousand tons, which is 4% more than planned indicators, 2% lower than similar indicators for the first half of 2014.
In 2015, Kazakhstan moved to the implementation of the second five-year plan of the industrial and innovative development program, one of the priority areas of which is the tkk industry.
according to our major partners and the secretariat, these negotiations are the most difficult since 1995, "said Zh.Aitzhanov.
From 2016, we will make changes to the budget that will allow more effective subsidies in crop production, from 2017 subsidies in the field of livestock production will be introduced.
As a result of negotiations that have lasted the last 5 years, Kazakhstan has retained the possibility of providing state support to agriculture in the amount of 8.5% of the total value of agricultural products. following negotiations which lasted past 5 years , kazakhstan has managed to defend the opportunity to provide state support to agriculture in the amount of 8.5 % of the gross value of agricultural production .
Since we have one of the innovative areas of robotics, this year 170 children chose the sphere related to information technology and robotics.
also following the results of the meeting in order to sign an agreement on participation and approval of cooperation in November 2015, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. a. Nazarbayev is expected to visit France.
the issue consists of $2.5 billion in bonds in 2025 and $1.5 billion in 2045.
Together with the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, a meeting was held in Frankfurt at the beginning of the year, in which 200 entrepreneurs took part, all of them are our fellow countrymen, as well as the presentation of the state business support program, "said A.Deder.
It is planned to check foreign books on natural and mathematical disciplines, 40 educational programs in English will be created, 2.4 thousand teachers will undergo preliminary training.
During the summit, the Kazakh delegation held a special event "Africa 2063 in support of the agenda: food, energy and water security" with the participation of representatives of more than a hundred African states.
As for reality, 47% work in private companies, of which 13% in international and 2% in national companies, the remaining 53% in budget institutions and government agencies, "he added.
954.2 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for their construction.
As noted in the department, a special topic of conversation was the role of the Ministry of Finance in implementing the tasks provided for in 100 specific steps.
According to the instructions of the Head of State, taking into account the forecasts on the economic situation of 2015, samruk-energy reduced investment costs totaling over 28 billion tenge (or 23%) and current expenses by 9.4 billion tenge (or 5%). if to speak about figures , according to an order of the head of state , considering forecasts for an economic situation in 2015 , jsc samruk-energo cut down expenses on investments on the sum of over 28 billion tenge or 23 % , and also operating costs on total amount of 9.4 billion tenge or 5 % . "
In January-May 2015, the population as a whole in the country increased by 101.4 thousand people or 0.6%, compared to June 1, 2014, the population increased by 254.4 thousand people or 1.47%.
Today, 112 vacancies in the construction industry from 6 employers are presented at the job fair: foreman, welder, installer, bricklayer, plaster, electrician, worker, etc.
In accordance with the order of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to provide preschool education in the region, 92 kindergartens and 17 mini-centers are planned to be opened this year.	head of the region amandyk batalov noted that  it is planned to open 92 kindergartens and 17 mini-centers @ @ . "
The complete completion of work on the Shymkent-Tashkent and diamond-Kurgan sections is scheduled for 2016, thus traffic along the transit corridor will be opened, "said M.Pshembayev.
As part of the commitments to create joint ventures, a joint venture kpjv was created as the project designer with 50% Kazakh participation between Engineering Company Kazgiproneftetrans LLP, Kazakhstan White Oil and Gas Institute, Warli Parsons and Fluorkazakhstan.
As for health care, in the first half of the year in the region there was a decrease in tuberculosis rates by 13.0% (100 69.9 thousand people), malignant neoplasms - by 2.4% (100 293.7 thousand people).
over the past five years there has been a significant increase, production energy has decreased by 20% - this is a very high indicator.
Residents who rented an apartment after 5 years have the right to buy the remaining apartment ahead of schedule.
today at 6:00 am, more than 3,000 military personnel and military personnel of the four departments of defense are brought to the appropriate level of combat training.
of these, 42 apartments were rented to military personnel serving in military units of the village of Akmol, 60 apartments and 52 apartments in the village of Gvardeysk.
As part of the events dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Law on the Father of the Republic of Kazakhstan, two medals were awarded to the leaders of the Kazakh ethnocultural movement in Samara and Moscow.
on a construction site with a total area of ​ ​ 174 hectares, the main pavilion of Kazakhstan, a congress center, an amphitheater, international pavilions, shopping, entertainment centers, residential complexes, hotels and other facilities are being built.
an ethnocultural park and historical values ​ ​ of 27 models of historical and cultural monuments of the region are installed in the ethnopark, and a color fountain with a diameter of 21 meters is installed in the center.
The nation's plan to implement 5 institutional reforms - 100 steps - is a unique program that will allow Kazakhstan to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world, "Tymoshenko said.
In December last year, within the framework of the national teleconference "Results of the new industrialization of Kazakhstan in 2014 and the results of the first five-year plan" with the participation of President Nursultan Abishevich, the first stage of the rail plant was launched.
road transport of the city, including transportation of individual entrepreneurs, carried 1,294,9 million passengers in January-July 2015, including transport enterprises of the city - 276.7 million people (21.4%), individual entrepreneurs - 1,018,2 million people (78.6%).
Recall that the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" in the city of Astana is implemented in two areas: "ensuring employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services" and "assistance in employment through training and resettlement within the framework of the needs of the employer."
As noted, the purpose of the competition is to provide state grants to start-up entrepreneurs, experienced entrepreneurs, women, disabled people and people over 50 years old to open their cases.
In July 2015, the weighted average interest rate on term deposits of non-bank legal entities in national currency amounted to 4.9%, on deposits of individuals - 7.7%.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country has achieved all the goals and objectives that he spoke about 20 years ago, as well as the Millennium Development Goals.
Since 2016, a separate model curriculum in the subject "Fundamentals of Anti-Corruption Culture" for all specialties will be introduced in universities of the public service and the anti-corruption agency.
in priority areas - 36, in e-commerce - 28 projects, in media technologies - 9, in computing - 7.
based on the above approaches, a priority list of 60 large companies has been developed, consisting of objects of privatization of the state and quasi-public sector, including samruk-kazyna, ak "baiterek" and "kazagro."
29 applications for legalization of objects worth 712.0 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
First published in 1976, the novel "Nomads" was published 12 times with a circulation of 1.5 million copies in Russian alone.
He also noted that to date, 48 countries and 10 international organizations are participating in EXPO-2017, which is of special interest at the world level.
In 2012, Nursultan Nazarbayev decided to build two comprehensive schools with 500 places in the south and north of Kazakhstan.
the share of exports of raw materials and finished goods in the structure of exports of the macro-region states is as follows, in terms of exports of manufactured goods, the share of China (99%) and Belarus (93%) prevails.
from January to June of this year, permanent jobs were created in agriculture (458), industry (106), construction (1013), transport (95), trade (415), education and health care (63), other industries (371).
metropolitan central park. "
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the agenda will include issues of UN Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), women's participation in peacekeeping missions, as well as the presentation of the My Deputy mobile application project.
It is worth noting that 88 projects worth 605.3 billion tenge were implemented in the region on the industrialization map, 52 projects worth 142.8 billion tenge were put into operation and 5.4 thousand permanent jobs were given.
It is worth noting that the second five-year plan of the industrialization map of the region includes 1.2 projects designed for 6 thousand jobs in the amount of 24 trillion tenge.
In this loan agreement totaling $1 billion, there is a clause stating that the samruk-kazyna fund can increase the final contract to $1.5 billion.
nationwide, this figure is 14 per cent of the State grants for technical and technological specialties, which is a relatively high figure.
the second stage of modernization is carried out to bring the output of the plant to 6 million tons per year and increase the depth of oil refining to 80%.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 32 applications for legalization of residential facilities in the amount of 902.9 million tenge.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that the coverage of children with preschool educational programs reached 84%, five years ago this indicator was only 30%.
the amount of sea salt should be 4%.
In the nomination "best producers," the first place went to tsesna-poppy LLC, the second and third - "April 2030" and "golden mill trade."
Mr. Taimagambetov added that in February 2011, the constitution was amended to establish constitutional justifications for holding early presidential elections.
In addition, the interlocutor of Kommersant said that the government is considering the introduction of a visa-free regime for citizens of Kazakhstan unilaterally for up to 15 days.
26 applications for legalization of property in the amount of 658.1 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Most importantly, social support is provided to everyone individually, that is, social workers will determine the needs of each of the 43,000 disabled people and provide specific assistance.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that at this stage of the development of bilateral relations, the United Kingdom has invested $12 billion in Kazakhstan, now there are 500 companies related to British capital in the country.
processing of agricultural products (processing of wool, fish, rice, leather, vegetables, sunflower, fish farming): 26 projects worth 16.11 billion tenge were approved, of which 20 projects worth 12.62 billion tenge were launched.
Kazakhstan is our homeland.
Special attention is also paid to the issues of preparation for the Paralympic Games, currently 17 athletes have fulfilled the license standard for 6 sports.
In turn, the university was organized on the basis of the Kazakh National Music Academy, which was created by combining children's music school No. 1 and the Akmola College of Arts.
In addition, Meray and Nurzhan took second place in the canoe double at a distance of 200 meters, and also won silver at distances of 1000, 500 and 200 meters in the pursuit.
On 10 June, a briefing was held at the Royal Institute of Defence and Security, which was attended by heads of diplomatic missions, representatives of United Kingdom government bodies, experts from leading British research centers and higher education institutions.
As of July 1, 2015, more than 23 thousand people are in the region to receive apartments from the state fund, of which 50% are in the akimat of Kostanay.
the increase in the number of cattle increased by 6.9%, sheep and goats - by 7%, horses - by 4.5%, birds - by 6.7%.
The issues of increasing the participation of women in the implementation of the Plan of the Nation 100 concrete steps, supporting women's entrepreneurship, increasing the share of women in public and public administration, and developing family and demographic policy were discussed.
For the first time in the history of the Academy, 17 civil servants from Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan and the Kyrgyz Republic entered for civil servants of the member countries of the regional hub under the program of educational grants of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scholarships of the foundation.
The training tour was attended by representatives of mk plasttar LLP (amp), intermultiservice LLC (amp), polymer layer LLC (capital), Astetalonkroun LLC (temirtau), Magnitogorsk LLC (temirtau), technoprom-tex LLC (Pavlodar).
aset issekeshev informed his colleague about the beginning of 5 institutional reforms in the country and the creation of joint ventures as one of the priorities of this plan.
today you can send express mail between the stations of the capital and Almaty, trains No. 1/2 "Alma-Ata-Almaty" and No. 701/702 "Almaty-Petropavlovsk-Almaty."
The constitution testifies to the formation of the state, the adoption of the constitution at a republican referendum in 1995 was the highest sign of the development of civil society, "B. Kaipova explained.
The quality of ambulance services to the population increased by 98%, the arrival time of the ambulance crew on a call of the 1-3 category was reduced to 9 minutes.
More than 20 thousand children from boarding schools and special schools of Kazakhstan and families are involved in year-round training from 24 winter sports games and take part in regional and republican competitions. more than 20 thousand children and young people of kazakhstan from boarding , special schools and families are involved in year-round training and competition in 24 summer and winter sports , they annually participate in regional and national competitions .
The participants of the event summed up the results of the organization's work over 40 years, exchanged views on improving the efficiency and improvement of ecu work.
For example, 195 joint ventures and 200 enterprises with German capital or 60% of all Kazakh-German enterprises of the country are registered in the city, "the akim noted.
the latest report of the global barometer of hope and despair indicates that more than 60% of humanity consider themselves believers. in a recent report of the " global barometer of hope and happiness , " more than 60 % consider themselves religious .
The readiness of heating networks for the heating season is 60%, 79% of educational facilities, 75% of health institutions, 63% of residential buildings.
In addition, by a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, amendments were adopted providing for the provision of three public services since 2016 through public service centers.
In addition, the head of state identified the main tasks facing the city leadership and the party's asset in implementing 5 institutional reforms of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this time requirement should be competitive for our students, graduates, so we implement a trilingual educational policy within the framework of the policy of the head of state "100 concrete steps," said the head of the Ministry of Education and Science.
It is noted that residents of the villages skillful, tar, 1, 2 and 3 Mangistau villages will undergo free screening examinations and receive free medical care for socially significant diseases.
a. Karachev informed his Czech counterpart in detail about the situation of socio-political and socio-economic development in Kazakhstan, the implemented plan of the nation "100 steps" and the preparations for EXPO-2017.
According to the procedure, if the depositor has a deposit in tenge opened in second-tier banks and/or kazpost at the end of the operating day on August 18, 2015, he will be paid a exchange rate difference.
As part of the event dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, an exhibition about the museum fund and the life of the great Abylai Khan was presented to the attention of the Secretary of State.
The national plan aimed at modernizing our Kazakhstan, the 100 step program provides for the creation of favorable conditions for life, regardless of the ethnic and religious views of the population, "the President said.
In general, the result of the implementation of these and other industries will be an increase in the indicators of socio-economic development of the region by 2020.
Within the framework of the national plan "100 concrete steps," the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan is implementing a direction to attract strategic investors in the development of milk and dairy products.
According to him, since 2010, the best colleges have been selected at the first stage, which have modernized the order and technical support of employers.
here the head of state was informed about the amendments to the master plan of the capital until 2030 and the project for the formation of the metropolitan agglomeration, as well as the progress in creating a new transport system of the capital.
As a historian who has been studying central Asia for 33 years, Kazakhstan really feels culture, traditions that are transmitted from generation to generation. being a historian , researching central asia for 33 years , i can conclude that , culture , traditions are being handed down from generation to generation .
the opening of this plant allowed 600 people to create new jobs (including hired organizations), the bulk of which are residents of the Zhambyl region.
According to the conrad violator, they are ready to consider the possibility of building a poultry farm with a total capacity of not only 30 thousand tons per year, but also more.
completion of construction - 2018, all these stages are on schedule, the construction of these networks will provide energy to the northern region of east and south of Kazakhstan. the completion date is 2018 , all these stages are on schedule , the construction of these lines will allow to provide the east and south of kazakhstan with energy from the north of kazakhstan , " he said .
Official representatives of Germans and Kazakhstanis were invited to the forum, a total of 300 people from both sides are expected to participate.
On July 13, mobilization groups will be organized from therapists, cardiologists, surgeons, pediatricians, gynaecologists, ophthalmologists, dentists and laboratory diagnostic service specialists (uds, ecg, X-ray studies) to the Aktogai district of the Karaganda region, the report said.
partnership with the committee became an important element in the way of adapting Kazakhstan to the standards of idu and its entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
group coach - two-time champion of Kazakhstan and Russia in taekwondo, silver medalist of the 1995 World Cup among military personnel captain anoir usen.
As of July 29, 2015, 348 objects were actually put up for auction, of which 192 objects were sold, 10 on republican property, 84 on communal property, 56 on JSC, and 42 on holdings.
such well-known companies as dpworld, shamrock, tonyblairassociates, di, femoza are involved in the management of the eea.
The Governor's Office of the capital and the government of Moscow established close relations between the cities in 2000, as a result of the signing of an agreement between the two capitals on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural and educational spheres.
the customer enjoys the quality and prices of the foam block, in the city one foam block costs 400 tenge, which is 200 tenge cheaper.
the size of the basic pension varies from 50 to 100 percent of the subsistence minimum, depending on the length of participation in the pension system.
all construction and preparatory work has been completed.
Before the start of the event, the trusted representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Lebanon daulet amberdiev gave an interview to the central Lebanese television channel "Teleliban" about 5 institutional reforms.
in the wake of the story released in 1999. "
By the end of the year, it is planned to implement 14 projects, including the expansion of the rehabilitation international commodity port, the opening of a house-building plant, and the opening of a bakery.
In general, more than 5.5 thousand jobs are expected to be created in 2015 at the expense of the National Fund of Kazakhstan, "A. Obman said.
the most famous varieties of Pavlodar potatoes: "Romano," "Nevsky," "Santa," "karatop," "gala," "rosara," "melody," etc.
15.7% of the total amount of approved subsidies is the share of Almaty region, for which the amount of subsidies to be paid in 2015 is 107.7 million tenge.
31.7% of the total amount of approved subsidies is the share of Aktobe region, which is 216.6 million tenge in the amount of subsidies to be paid in 2015 in the region.
The press conference will be attended by the Director General of the Russian Davletyar Music-TV Dream Channel, presenters of the 2015 Music-TV Awards - Andrey Malakhov, Maxim Galkin, Ksenia Sobchak.
this year, 91 pupils of the Akkol orphanage "dawn," which will be joined by 80 pupils of Uryupin orphanages and 59 pupils of the Stepnogorsk city, 70 pupils of the Sandyktau house, 87 pupils of Ishimbay orphanages, "the report said.
The event was attended by 150 guests, including the consuls general of Russia, Uzbekistan and Belarus in Shanghai, representatives of the scientific community, the Kazakh diaspora, Kazakh and foreign students in China.
maruben has been operating since 1993 and over the past 20 years has become a reliable partner in joint projects in our country.
Kazakhstan is the world leader in uranium production, and oil reserves in the country account for a third of the world's oil, about 60% of exports are oil.
President Nazarbayev proposes a program of 100 concrete steps, which is aimed at improving the living conditions of our people, preserving harmony and unity.
According to the regional department of economy and budget planning, the volume of production since the beginning of the year amounted to 584.3 billion tenge, of which 520 billion tenge is accounted for by the mining industry, 42 billion tenge - by the manufacturing industry.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusipov familiarized with the main goals and objectives of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," the new economic policy "Nұr path - the way to the future," and also informed about the current political and trade and economic directions of cooperation between the two countries.
At the same time, it is assumed that the expected investment in the exploration industry will amount to more than $70 million per 1 contract for $2 million.
According to the press service of the holding, during the reporting period the group of companies started and continued financing on 12 projects reformatted at a high level in the production sector for a total amount of 491.7 billion tenge.
To date, 394 projects with the creation of 6 thousand new jobs with an investment volume of 32 billion tenge are planned to be launched in the region within the framework of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019.
- Since 2011, the Pair Development Program has assisted the Government of Kazakhstan in promoting energy-efficient design and construction of residential buildings with financial support from Kazakhstan.
The second project - equestrian and sports complex with an area of ​ ​ 100 hectares - includes family recreation activities, a water park, a 288-seat children's camp, and a youth recreation center.
The volume of placed dollar deposits compared to April 2015 amounted to 15.1 billion US dollars (93.3% of the total placed deposits).
The entry into force on October 25, 2015 of a bilateral agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments will significantly strengthen the legal framework of our relations. i am confident that the bilateral agreement on encouragement and mutual protection of investments d / d 25 october 2015 will significantly strengthen the legal basis of our relations .
At the first stage till 2020 33 projects within which fixing of the national patriotic idea is provided "Will be started the m g_l_k ate" at the level of the law about a kh", - told N shanay.
the headliners of aktau open fest 2015 will be the stars of Kazakh sports, two-time Olympic champions Ilya Ilyin and the winner of the Olympics Serik Sapiev.
The decision on this issue was made by unanimous vote at the regular meeting of the International Association of Technical Control and Classification Authorities in Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam) on May 20-22, 2015.
Recall that in April 2000, as part of the official visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to Israel in the suburbs of Beit Shemesh, the Federation of the CIS Jewish Community was planted.
in addition, the share of the processing industry in connection with the increase in wave flows increased from 7% to 14% in Weidmb years.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in trade, economic, investment and transport and transit spheres were discussed.
Over 24 years of independence, about a million Kazakhs returned to their historical homeland, which is 5.5% of the total population of the country.
By a decision of the head of state of May 20, 2015, the chairmanship and functions of the working body of the interdepartmental commission of the Security Council on environmental safety issues were entrusted to the Prosecutor General's Office.
12 orphans left without parental care received certificates of opening an individual savings register.
Note that the project is aimed at identifying the talents of vocal scenes, supporting their creative development, releasing 16 new Kazakh songs in Kazakh for all small Kazakhstanis.
26 heads of the education sector of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey and representatives of the Turkic Council will take part in the meeting of senior officials of the education ministries of the Turkic-speaking Cooperation Council.
According to the Department of Economy and Budget Planning, as of October 1 of this year, there was an increase in the chemical industry (135.7%), metallurgy (123.9%), food production (102.8%).
thus, it is expected that the level of capacity of processing enterprises will increase to 70% and the share of milk imports in consumption will decrease from 28% to 18%.
A couple of young people who founded childbirth in 1963 have not recorded since then, but have lived together, worked together and raised children.
Despite the fact that production is operating at maximum capacity, demand for its products increased in 2010, as a result of which a phased modernization of the plant was planned, including as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
Among them are the master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the winter presidential all-around and military triathlon, the 2014 world champion in pentantlon maxim gubarev.
It is worth noting that since 2013, this school has opened experimental classes for boys and private girls, in which a cadet education program is being implemented.
The greenhouse with an area of ​ ​ 300 square meters will be used as a conference hall and will become a resting place for children.
It is worth noting that the deputies carry out explanatory work on the bills considered in the reporting period at the meeting within 10 days.
In Akmola region on June 16 of the current year in pilot mode the program on automation of activity of akims of rural districts was launched.	on may 16 this year a pilot program to automate the activities of mayors of rural districts has been launched in arshalyn district of akmola region .	2,15
In weight to 58 kg, the Nursultan Mamaev won a duel with the Spaniard zhezus tortos karero and became the absolute champion among the 30 strongest taekwondo players in the world.	58 kg ordinary nursultan mamayev won the battle with the spanish jesus tortosa cabrera and became the world champion among the 30 strongest taekwondo sportsmen .	2,15
At the same time, the detection of especially serious crimes increased by 20.6%, serious - by 13%.	at the same time the detection of particularly serious crimes and severe forms of crimes has been increased by 20.6 % 13 % respectively .	2,15
According to the "kdk" development data, the re-development of funds allocated for financing projects of manufacturing enterprises in the spring of 2014 amounted to 8 billion 900 million tenge as of October 2, 2015.
He noted that 3 projects worth 2.7 billion tenge are being implemented in the field of thermal energy infrastructure, 10 projects worth 958.4 million tenge in housing construction, and 1 project worth 150 million tenge in education.
Last year, an investment bill was adopted, which provides for the introduction of the principle of stability in legislation for 10 years in the framework of investment agreements.	it provides the principle of introduction of stability of the legislation for 10 years within concluded investment contracts .	2,15
4 participating banks selected according to the results of the implementation of due diligence borrowed funds (cesnabank "white" - 86 million, ("kazkommertsbank" - 82.3 million US dollars), (equivalent to "delta bank" - 50 million dollars), (equivalent to "kazinvestbank" - 9.7 million dollars) the national currency will be invested in tenge.
we support Kazakhstan in all matters. we always support kazakhstan in all matters .
On November 12, the Minister visited the National Center for the Examination of Medicines, Medical Products and Medical Equipment, the Republican Blood Center and the Almaty Cancer Center.
the plant produces rails 120 meters long, as well as medium-shaped hinges, channels and beams.
The Minister of National Economy recalled that since January 2015 the program of development of single-industry towns has been put for liquidation, and its activities have been integrated by a separate section into the program of development of regions until 2020.
Since 2005, the D.Haller label has represented the interests of Kazakhstan on the federal state of Baden-Württemberg and over 10 years has made a significant contribution to Kazakh-German cooperation.
Today, the territory of Industrial Park No. 1 is occupied by 90%, investors show great interest in our city, so it is planned to open Park No. 2 with an area of ​ ​ 433 hectares in a distance from Park No. 1. nowadays the industrial park № 1 has been filled by more than 90 % , investors show their great interest in our city , so it was decided to create the industrial park № 2 on the territory of 433 hectares near the park № 1 .
According to the results of the study, it was noted that in most regions of Kazakhstan 2 indicators for gays were included, which are assessed biased.
In 2015, 1,900 professional magistrates entered the state educational order in the main universities, "the press service of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reported.
at the same time, as the head of the committee explained, the level of insulation in the production of locomotives should be at least 50%, in the production of freight carriers - at least 90%.
at that time, 160 researchers from the Russian Academy of Sciences were sent to Burabai, 32 of them stayed in the Burabai Territory.
Representatives of the European business community got acquainted with the main economic initiatives of Kazakhstan, as well as the "100 steps" plan of the nation and the "bright path - way to the future" programs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
During the meeting with the foreign ministers of the member states of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States (SB), specific tasks of implementing the agreements reached during the summit of September 11 this year in the capital were discussed.
The purchase of medicines, including hemophilic factors, for 2016 is carried out on time and delivered in accordance with the approved schedule.
in 2011, the casplast established a network for the production of many other polyethylene products, such as dishes, gardens, a cone, and children's play complexes.
It was attended by representatives of 13 states from Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, as well as 17 religious organizations: Islam, Christianity, Buddhism, Judaism, Shintoism, Taoism, etc.
It is planned to deep complex processing of 500 million tons of coal with a capacity of up to 2.5 thousand tons per year. isekeshev.
November 9 will begin "innovative week" with the organization in Almaty of a package of seminars for the purpose of training of young innovators, preparation them by annual day "startup day" (startup day).
At the same time, according to him, more funds are allocated in the manufacturing industry, about 40% of the funds are spent on this, the second industry in the capital is transport and transshipment.
project capacity - 10 tons of dry powder per year used in the food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries of Kazakhstan, as well as dry powder exported to the EU countries.
its launch achieved an increase in freight traffic between the Asia-Pacific region and Kazakhstan by 80%, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In order to effectively organize the rest of schoolchildren in the summer, the Cheese Ulan camp is planned to rest at the expense of the district budget 700 children from low-income, large and orphans, single families.
As the head of the region noted, one of the 10 state programs for strict control over the implementation is a program for the development and functioning of languages.
"I'm happy," said the singer.
On August 6, the leaders of personal competitions and the eight best teams who will continue to test the tank will be named in the semifinals and finals of the "tank biathlon."
At the first stage of today's competition, at least 20 advanced technologies of innovative scientists were demonstrated, which are quite capable of competing in the world market, "said S. Rahimbekov.
In December and early 2016, it is planned to evaluate the applications, determine the excellent, and then move on to the negotiation process.
24 applications for legalization of objects worth 657.4 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the bodies of state revenues received 24 applications for legalization of property located outside the republic totaling 657,4 million tenge .	2,17
Our meeting is the home of 100 different nationalities, plays a very large role in the formation of interreligious dialogue, ensuring regional and international security, "said E. Azykhanov.
In early 2015, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan announced the creation of the Capital International Financial Center, while one of the main and rapidly developing financial centers, the Dubai International Financial Center (difc), became an example.
Issues of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment, financial, credit and cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed during the meeting.
For a significant contribution to the formation and development of local government and self-government in the Republic of Kazakhstan in completing the confirmation and for good deeds and activity in the socio-political life of the country for 20 years and letters of thanks to maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan, several public figures were awarded.
The agreement on the introduction of uniform forms of a vehicle passport and a passport of a self-propelled machine and other types of equipment and the organization of electronic passport systems was concluded on August 15, 2014 in Moscow.
Swedish companies such as ericsson, educationfirst, teliasonera.
Kazakhstan invites all countries to take part in this project, Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed.
24 applications for legalization of objects worth 657.4 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
29 applications for legalization of objects worth 712.0 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Following the results of the export agreement, agreements for $2 million are provided for with transformer organizations, pumps, energy-saving lighting plants, and confectionery products.
for British government officials, the issue of implementing and developing long-term, strategic projects with a implementation period of 30 to 50 years is of great importance.
14.8% of the total amount of approved subsidies is the share of North Kazakhstan region, for which the amount of subsidies to be paid in 2015 is 101.4 million tenge.
pipe supplier "arcelormittal."
According to experts, this project will determine the schedule of bus traffic, increase traffic safety, as well as increase bus travel time by 20%.
Also, 181.9 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned in the region, which is 3.6% more than in 2014.
Recall that on November 7, 2014, Astana Escpo-2017 and the akimat of Karaganda region signed a memorandum on attracting domestic producers to the construction of exhibition facilities.
partnership agreements with international companies are underway today: dhl, db schenker, toyota tsusho co., senko, etc.
The International Association of Architects awarded the Grand Prix monument, which in 2002 was awarded the title of the best project in the CIS countries.
Active work has begun on the draft Water Disposal Treaty between Kazakhstan and China, which will be carried out by an ad hoc working group of experts established in 2014.
The International Association of Technical Control and Classification Bodies was established on September 20, 2002 and unites national classification societies and technical control and classification bodies in the field of water transport.
Governor instructed to pilot the launch of a single intelligent contact center on November 15, and from January 1 to begin full service to the townspeople.
As the chief doctor noted, "information technology has made it possible to maintain 25 calls on standby.
Given that the international exhibition EXPO-2017 will be held in the capital, it is very important for us to master your experience in holding such a large event. Dzhaksybekov, May 29 in Milan.
The volume of deposits raised by the national bank from banks as compared to April 2015 as of the end of May 2015 increased by 13.7% and amounted to 48.7 billion tenge.
Also, according to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the largest project of the international level will be the opening in 2015 in Alma-Ata of the Center for the rapprochement of culture under the motto of UNESCO.
The agreement, which is planned to be signed in the near future, will replace the partnership and cooperation agreement of 1999 and will lay a modern and solid foundation for Kazakh-Kazakh relations.
in a solemn atmosphere, the Prosecutor General presented the jubilee medal "20 years of the Constitution of Kazakhstan" to veterans and employees of the prosecutor's office, awarded by decree of the head of state.
It should be noted that more than 90% of the materials used in the reconstruction of roads are materials of Kazakhstan production.
So, today there are 15 sports bases in Kazakhstan, where the national teams of the country hold training events, are accredited by the confederation of martial arts and power sports.
In addition, today is another memorable day when the great daughter of the Kazakh people, the heroine of the Soviet Union Aliya Moldagulova will turn 90 years old.
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the conference participants with the goals and objectives of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, voiced by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, which laid the foundation for the course on the phased modernization of the state, economy and society.
In addition, according to him, since 2016, 80 college teachers will annually improve their qualifications in centers for new technologies abroad.
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that at the initiative of the Head of State, work has begun on the implementation of five institutional reforms, the implementation of the national plan - "100 concrete steps."
According to regional statistics, over the indicated period, the criminal investigation authorities detected 166 corruption acts, during this time last year there were 87 of them.
We can say that we produced products that meet the requirements of the WTO, although it was 11 years ago, "said N. Nasteshev.
in 2014 - 15,369 (23.6%).
the rates of contributions of self-employed citizens (individual entrepreneurs, private notaries, private court executors, lawyers, professional mediators, individuals receiving income under the agreement on a civil legal basis) will amount to 7% of their income.
He noted that over 30 years of service in the field of fire fighting, employees saved people by risking their lives.
The reason for the decrease in prices was the saturation of the market with early grape varieties of local producers, the wholesale price remained at the level of 450 tenge/kg.
280 participants in research from February to March were trained at the Daryn Stars camp year-round.
they are real patriots of Kazakhstan, "he said. the author of the project is the Kanapiyeva during the event.
Coordinator of the Kazakhstan Information Resource Center for Ecotourism Aigul Isagulova introduced the conference participants to the great tourism opportunities of Kazakhstan and presented the tourism development program in Kazakhstan until 2020.
Of the 10 selected colleges, 6 colleges are equipped with modern equipment totaling 425 million tenge as part of the modernization project carried out at the expense of a world bank loan.
80% of machine-building products used in the country are imports, in the regions there are constantly operating metallurgy, oil and gas, agriculture. 80 % of engineering products consumed in the country are imported , despite the fact that there is a stable demand in all sectors i.e. metallurgy , oil and gas , agriculture .
Another 285 million tenge received from additional customs regulation was returned to the portfolio of the state, that is, goods with an underestimated customs value were imported into the territory of Kazakhstan, "he said.
The volume of sales of goods through trading enterprises in January-July 2015 compared to the cantar-July 2014 amounted to KZT1,772.2 billion or the actual value decreased by 0.1%.
Given that 48% of the country's active population is women, 4.4 million people can influence the implementation of the program, "said the Secretary of State.
In addition, in accordance with the memorandum on the socio-economic development of the region, the company plans to transfer 12 social facilities to the akimat by the end of the year and allocate an additional 88 million tenge for their maintenance this year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to reduce the deficit of the republican budget by 1% by 2018, noting that financing of the deficit should be carried out only at the expense of the internal reserve.
This project includes training programs in 7 required technical specialties of colleges of the capital, Almaty, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda regions.
competitions in 9 sports are planned at the regional sports contest, of which 3 are in football, athletics and presidential all-around.
the gathered attended sports such as a racehorse for 7 kilometers, a stable, a tek-bai, an alamba, a kokpar, an intersection, a maiden.
At the same time, we will continue to support the development of trade between the EU and the United States, which, according to him, grew by 8%, "he said.
375 boiler houses (83%) as of July 27, 2015, 153.2 km of heating networks (59%), 87.6 km (71%) of the water supply and sanitation system, 317.7 km (40%) of the electric network (0.4 kV), 20.7 km (62%) of the gas supply network are ready for the heating season.
It is also planned to put into operation 2 more kindergartens by the end of the year, "said the head of the education department of Mangistau region.
The Republican Federation of Rate of Fire was created in 5 regions, currently in secondary schools there are 70 circles for this type of game.
As the head of the department noted, the main part of mass sports is the passing of presidential tests, which started in April 2015.
granting land to the concessionaire for temporary use, conducting engineering communications, 100% return on investment costs of the concessionaire and providing a state order.
C. According to Ongerbekov, it is planned to hold annual competitions at which the 10 best countries that have achieved great success in promoting the green economy will be selected.
According to him, by the end of the year, Baiterek should develop 7.5 billion tenge, and by March 2016 19.5 billion tenge should be used for edb loans.
The Kazavtodor-kaztraffic-2015 exhibition will be attended by 200 delegates, including transport departments and regional and international organizations, financial and project institutions of the Euro-Asian region.
Kazakhstani enterprises joined in the creation of the union, the share of production of which in the domestic auto industry exceeds 74%.
Besides, a. Musakozhaeva added that the main number in the treasury will be the performance of the ensemble "stallion" consisting of 150 people.
I also left the boarding school for children who cannot see, lived there for 11 years, and I know what it is, for me it is great happiness to share joy with children. i graduated from boarding school for blind children , i lived there for 11 years , and i know what it is , for me it is a great joy to share the joy with the children .
there is no competition among 10 universities that train idmb personnel, since all priorities are distributed according to plan, the coverage of the regions was carried out as part of the iidmb program. there is no competition between 10 universities , chosen within stuff training to implement spiid , because all priorities are divided fairly systematically , the coverage of the regions is performed based on the priorities of the program spiid .
through these bivalve reservoirs, 60,000 hectares of vacant land in the southern regions will be developed for agricultural purposes.
The memorandum was signed on August 17 of this year by the chairman of the board of Astana Expo-2017 national company Akhmetzhan Yessimov and the president of Air Astana airline St. Petersburg Foster.
The national teams of Kazakhstan take part in the European special Olympic Games once every 2 years and in the World Special Olympic Games since 1991, "said the general director of" special olympics "Olga Bahareva.
Recall that from 2005 to June 2015, the volume of direct Malaysian investments in the economy of Kazakhstan amounted to $4.1 million.
during the accumulation period, a reward of 10% is paid from the bank for the amount accumulated in the deposit and a premium from the state in the amount of 5%, for children of priority categories - 7%.
The Foreign Minister thanked Secretary General Ayatollah for supporting Kazakhstan's chairmanship of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation in 2011.
1 . For merits in the development of cosmonautics, the successful implementation of the manned program on the Soyuz tma-16m spacecraft, the honorary title "pilot cosmonaut of Kazakhstan" was awarded.
In addition, the document, of course, will allow us to move to a new quality of relations, other scales of cooperation both between the founding countries and with observer countries in the 6 + 5 format.
The Ambassador informed the students about the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the new economic policy "Nұrly Zhol" and the way of implementing the "National Plan - 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms."
topic of the press conference "Introduction of advanced reforms of subsoil use within the framework of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps "
It should be noted that the oil refinery in Pavlodar produces 100 thousand tons of fuel per year, however, due to the delay in repair work in September, products will amount to 19 thousand tons.
The capital is the heart of our country, a symbol of our country. astana - the heart of our country , a symbol of our country .
tax and other payments to the budget of oil and gas sector payers exceeded 4.5 trillion tenge, and producers of the mining sector contributed more than 2 million tenge to the budget.
among them are "Asia auto," "bipek auto kazakhstan," "daewoo bus kazakhstan."
365 graduates were suspended from testing for the use of prohibited substances following the results of three days and violation of order in the audience.
In November 2015, a world climate summit will be held, within the framework of which a climate agreement with the kiota protocol will be concluded.
rabbit was also buried by Kazakhstani seed shegolets, 21 about 36,700 thousand mirror-Altai tribal shegolets of the reservoir and Vyacheslav reservoir.
The project was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to create the international financial center "Capital," the development of the capital market and Islamic financing as part of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
To provide clean drinking water, funds have been allocated for the construction of 2 new wells and the reconstruction of 2 wells in the crushed stone microdistrict.
The EEC Board decided to increase customs duties on harvesters and mining harvesters from 0% to 7.5% to 2%.
thus, the financing organizer and authorized organizer, jp morgan chase bank, n.a., mizuho bank, ltd, sumitomo mitsui banking corporation and lead organizer of financing credit suisse ag and deutsche bank ag were included in the agreement to determine this loan.
Kazakh entrepreneurs will be able to receive grants of up to 50 million tenge, for technology commercialization - up to 30 million tenge, for industrial research - up to 30 million tenge, for patenting in foreign countries and regional patent organizations - up to 6 million 250 thousand tenge.
Thanks to the cheerful policy of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has every chance to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world. thanks to the far-sighted policy of president nursultan nazarbayev nowadays kazakhstan is known throughout the world and has the potential to enter the top 30 developed countries , and the constitution adopted in1995 has opened the way for the achievements of our independent state .
At 100 percent capacity, the director of the enterprise produces up to 10-12 thousand cubic meters. m of products per month, 30 thousand cubic meters. m of commercial concrete.
Recall that on July 4, peaceful istybayev defeated the Kyzylorda Ruslan Abdrazakov and became a two-time winner of the tournament.
at the qualifying stage, out of 82 applicants for the group participating in the international competition on behalf of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, only six male soldiers and two girls will be selected.
and the second stage of universal declaration is planned by 2020, in which it is planned to involve the rest of the population, "said B. sultanov.
As a result, in 2012-2014, 21 major projects were adjusted, the implementation of which is at risk of inefficiency.
In the second half of 2015, it is planned to build another 57 medical facilities and build 14 health facilities worth 4.5 billion tenge, "the report said.
According to him, during the competition for producers of sour milk products, another nomination was appointed, for which 16 applications from brands of this level were received.
The volume of sales amounted to: in the republican budget - 2,730 million tenge, the regional budget - 1,273 million tenge, holdings - 60,835 million tenge, accc - 2,919 million tenge.
At the end of 2015, it is planned to open traffic on the Shymkent taraz section with a length of 183 km, including a bypass of the city of Taraz.
The skat airline plans to open flights from Alma-Ata to Xi'an in 2015, from the capital to Xi'an in 2016, from Almaty and the capital to Shanghai in 2017.
this is a great performance that will take place for 40 minutes and will enter this period, "said the People's Artist of Russia Yuri Alexandrov during the event.
It should be noted that 25 enterprises of the machine-building, chemical, construction, pharmaceutical, grain, metallurgical industry discussed with Uzbek distribution companies the possibility of supplying goods to this country.
The sixth republican action "Road to School," which will be held in the region from August 1 to September 30 of this year, will be held under the motto "Give the child mercy."
He noted that the national plan "100 concrete steps" announced by the head of state "inspires and inspires every Kazakhstani to great deeds."
Recall that over the years of independence, our judoists won 1 silver medal, 1 gold, 2 silver, 3 bronze medals at the world championships, 1 gold, 10 silver and 21 bronze, 4 gold, 6 silver and 30 bronze medals at the Asian championships.
30 schoolchildren shot the future of the capital on paper, and a creative exhibition of the club-school of junior creativity was also presented on the square.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, 830 employees of these organizations are involved in providing public services to villagers.
during the festival, he goes to a mountain located on the eastern side of the mountain range, where he is given the name "peak of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" (height 3535 m).
aa. According to Dossayev, in 2015, at the expense of the National Fund, local executive bodies were given a budget loan of 240 billion tenge to complete the construction of 30 thousand square meters of housing.
In 2015, 26 works were submitted to the Commission for awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology named after al-Farabi.
Also on August 4 and 5, employees of medical organizations of the city of Almaty will provide information and consulting assistance and conduct laboratory and diagnostic examinations in the universal market "d-market."
According to the results of two rounds of the 27th International Olympiad in Informatics, the national team of Kazakhstan took 8th place in the team event, having won 3 silver and 1 bronze medals.
It should be noted that the activity of the center of technology commercialization has been carried out since 2013 as part of the development of the economy of Kazakhstan on an innovative, scientific and technical basis.
Chinese leader Xi jinping first put forward the idea of ​ ​ a new modernization of the silk road in September 2013 during a visit to the capital. the chinese leader xi jinping first voiced the idea to revive the silk road during the state visit to astana in september 2013 .
According to Askar Mamin, taking into account the trade turnover between the countries of the region, trans-Caspian container transportation by 2020 will amount to about 300 thousand twenty-foot equivalents.
It is noted that in Mangistau region in 2015 10.5 billion tenge was allocated for the development of the social sphere, including 4.7 billion tenge from the republican budget, 5.7 billion tenge from the local budget.
Representatives of diplomatic missions of the European Union countries were informed about the ongoing reforms in Kazakhstan within the framework of the 100 Steps Plan of the Nation, the prospects for creating an international financial center based on the infrastructure of the expo 2017 exhibition in the capital.
During the official ceremony, M. Yesenbayev informed the President of Myanmar about the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan at the present stage, as well as the country's prospects under the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Nұr Path to the Future program.
About 3 thousand agricultural producers worth more than 9 billion tenge were financed by the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture, "he said.
The Ambassador familiarized the interlocutor with the socio-economic development of the country in the context of the new monetary policy, explaining the basic principles of the "100 concrete steps" of the plan of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to implement five institutional reforms.
68 projects worth 20.72 billion tenge were approved, the total production capacity of fruit and vegetable products was 239.6 thousand tons per year.
For 10 years, the Eurasian kazenergy forum "has become a large-scale platform uniting all oil and gas industries and energy production.
After the launch of the network for the production of sandwich panels, construction facilities will be commissioned in full with 100% Kazakh content.
As the chairman of the board of Baiterek bh noted, this year the construction of 507 thousand square meters of housing along the white line of Zhilstroysberbank has been completed.
You see, khki, world, European, Asian, Islamic banks believe in our country and give loans of about 9 billion dollars that are very favorable for Kazakhstan. you see the confidence in our country , the world , european , asian , islamic banks invest , provide very favorable credits in the amount of about 9 billion dollars , we must appreciate this respect , " - he said .
Of the 223 indicators, 72% have been executed or overperformed, another 19% are slightly behind the planned ambitious indicators and are significantly improved compared to the baseline year 2008.	out of 223 indicators 72 % have been done or exceeded , significant improvements have been achieved for another 19 % compared to 2008 .	2,23
Thus, at the initiative of President Nazarbayev in September 2013, it was decided to proclaim the UN General Assembly 2013-2022 as a decade of rapprochement of international cultures.	so , on the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev , in september 2013 the general assembly declared 2013-2022 the international decade for the rapprochement of cultures .	2,23
The meeting discussed measures to reform the judicial system within the framework of the National Plan "100 concrete steps - a modern state for all" and the results of the work of the courts of the republic for the first half of 2015.
In addition, Nazarbayev University will host the international scientific and practical conference "Eternal Country," which will be attended by more than 1000 foreign and domestic scientists, international experts, representatives of business communities from 20 countries of the world.
The meeting heard issues of preparation for exhibitions of Astana - 2017, Dubai - 2020, Antalya - 2016 and Beijing - 2019, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
53 participants from France, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Russia and Kazakhstan presented their works on three thematic topics characterizing the idea of ​ ​ the Astana expo-2017 exhibition: "fire energy," "water energy" and "air energy."
The upcoming international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital, as well as the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation announced by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, caused significant interest of representatives of New Brunswick.
as proof of this, one can cite the right granted to Kazakhstan to hold expo-2017, "said the chairman of the board of Astana expo 2017.
The national plan of 100 concrete steps will allow to realize the strategic goals of Kazakhstan to enter 30 competitive countries of the world.
the cargo turnover of oil for separate "kaztransoil" amounted to 18 billion 331 million tons-kilometers, which is 2% more than planned indicators and 2% more than similar indicators for the first half of 2014.
If in July there were no 10 million eggs in our warehouses, now we cannot sell 1 thousand tons of meat, now the warehouse is empty, we did not raise prices, all products were purchased within 2-3 weeks.
The participants of the meeting approved the draft decision of the EEC on the development of a plan of activities of the commission for the preparation of the census in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2020.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, from August 9 to 21 of the current year, the military unit 25744 of the regional command "West" of Aktau will undergo training of young officers.
single-industry towns will implement state support mechanisms in the form of subsidizing interest rates of up to 10% on loans, microcredit, as well as allocating up to 3 million tenge for the creation of new industries.
dastan zarlykhanov is a pupil of a good district sports school named after T. Ualiyev, now he is studying at the school of higher sportsmanship of Akmola region, which in the weight category 55 kg is recognized as worthy of a gold medal in the Asian zone.
This complex produces more than 100 thousand tons of impurities per year, which will allow in 2017 to receive 20,000 tons of meat, and in 2019 - up to 40,000 tons of capacity per year
The concept provides for implementation until 2018, which includes several stages in the formation of business personnel. the implementation of the concept is designed for 2018 and includes several stages of work on the formation of professional staff .
In addition, Nazarbayev University will host the international scientific and practical conference "Eternal Country," which will be attended by more than 1000 foreign and domestic scientists, international experts, representatives of business communities from 20 countries of the world.
In the country, more than 265 thousand people are engaged in national sports, and about 2 thousand athletes from all over the country take part in the festival.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-May 2015 amounted to 121.6 billion tenge or 90.5% for the same period of 2014. the volume of investments in fixed capital in january-may 2015 amounted to 121.6 billion tenge , or 90.5 % of the corresponding period in 2014 .
Recall that on September 1, 2014, a law on oralmans and citizens with the right to reside in Kazakhstan entered into force in Kazakhstan.
D.Sarekenov noted that the visit and the visit to Kazakhstan can be combined with participation in the international exhibition "Tourism and Travel," which will be held from April 20 to 22, 2016 in Almaty.
According to the director, at the same time, the cost of cost decreased by 20%, and earlier, when raw materials were imported from Turkey, the goods were more expensive.
Representatives of the Ministry of Defense and ground forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, military personnel of the country's armed forces arrived at the festive event organized by the military unit 53975.
around - the inscription "abai" in the state language, the number "2015," indicating the year of minting, and graphic elements from the banknote.
Since 2012, he has been a participant in the state program of forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2012-2014, "the nadloc said in a statement.
- Framework agreement between Eurasian resources group and the State Development Bank of China;
On January 6, 2006, at a joint meeting of the chambers, the Parliament of Kazakhstan introduced a corresponding amendment to the decree "On state symbols" and approved the new national anthem of the country.
By a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 31, 2015, the Unified Program for Business Support and Development "Business Roadmap 2020" was approved, within the framework of which financing of projects for the construction of modern type trade facilities is allowed.
25 enterprises in the field of mechanical engineering, chemistry, construction, pharmaceuticals, nutrition held negotiations with wholesale trading and distribution companies of Kyrgyzstan on the transportation of goods to this country.
In all regions of the country, 19 Nazarbayev intellectual schools have been established and are functioning, successfully introducing innovative approaches to the education and upbringing of children.
The festival has been held by the leading company in the field of media marketing "intermedia" since 2000 and is designed to unite people close to creativity around the world.
As of August 4, 2015, 355 objects were actually put up for auction, of which 191 objects were sold, 10 on republican property, 83 on communal property, 56 on JSC, and 42 on holdings.
Karim Massim recalled that between 1991 and 2000, the State made efforts to create a market economy and to form the first market institutions.
In 1984, the kamila of the kulala was awarded the medal "Mother Heroine," and also awarded at the "Golden College."
I support Kazakhstan's sustained support in protecting the new agenda and addressing climate change issues in the field of sustainable development until 2030. i welcome kazakhstan 's constant support in promotion of the new agenda in the field of sustainable development up to 2030 and in resolution of the climate change problem , " the senate press service quotes the un sec gen.
According to him, many experts express the opinion that inflation targeting was necessary in 2014, but Kazakhstanis understood the situation and monitored oil prices.
adoption of these measures will bring to the end of the year the share of sales of travel documents to 25% (or 6 million tickets), in 2016 - to 90% (or up to 21 million tickets).
Since the beginning of the year, according to statistics, prices for some goods as a whole have increased by almost 10%, and the cost of socially significant goods has increased by an average of 5%.
The future, approved by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in 1993, "is the key to promoting graduates by position and self-realization," said the head of the region.
- Project of specialized jewellery exhibition in Kazakhstan, which has been held annually since 2003.
There are 359 such offices and reproductive health centres in the country, where professional doctors work.
Given the projections for an increase in the number of people in the world, by 2050 the world should produce 60% more food than today.
Under the remuneration rate subsidy instrument, 661 subsidy agreements were signed for a total loan amount of 59.1 billion tenge.
The situation center employs 21 people from among technical specialists and experts trained under a specially developed program.
The young Ulan school respects the traditions of any nation, as representatives of 12 nationalities study here.
It will be attended by tank crews of the armed forces of 13 states, including military personnel of Tajikistan and Nicaragua.
kr idm rio tinto "a program is being implemented to train 6 new technologies and advanced methods of 60 specialists of the Committee of White and Geology and Subsoil Use" Kazgeology. "
In 2011, the laboratory received accreditation from the World Anti-Doping Agency for compliance with international standards, becoming one of 34 laboratories with special permission in the world.
This bill was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to reduce permits by 50% in 2015.
Including, according to the state program, by 2020, 70% of children should have access to all educational institutions.
Recall that to participate in the program "competitive leaders - national champions," the Baiterek holding teamed up with employees of the international consulting company mckinsey & company, selecting about 30 companies from 300 Kazakhstani companies for further participation in the project.
according to him, after 6 years of signing the agreement, we can talk about a significant strengthening of the institutional structure of the council.
The production of peugeot, launched in Kazakhstan in 2013, made it possible to introduce new technologies at allurgroup plants, replenish the material and technical base, exchange experience and increase the professional training of plant specialists.
Each series of the film tells about separate stages of the history of the Kazakh people from the emergence of the Kazakh khanate to independent Kazakhstan in 1465.
One of the projects is the placement of an oil coke production plant, investments of 16.8 billion tenge, the opening of 250 jobs.
this is a return of 30% of the total expenses, exemption from VAT, exemption from property taxes and other investment incentives, "said B. Sagintayev.
In 2011, in agreement with the government, we opened a Kazakh-Turkish lyceum in the city of Talgar.
the delegation visited the Stevenage football club and the harfordshire kayak complex, where she met with the 2012 Olympic champion in canoeing.
105 tons of fruits, vegetables, 93 tons of meat, 22 tons of dairy products and products totaling 115 million tenge will be delivered to residents and guests of the metropolis on this day.
We hope that after the visit of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan to China, the agreed production capacity will reach $50 billion, "the ambassador said.
We are currently considering the construction of a commodity and dairy farm with a capacity of 210 tons per day with the participation of partners, "said E. Nersherbayev.
During the control work, we identified 150 individuals who did not conclude employment contracts with their employers in various warehouses, "said the chairman of the committee.
According to the results of 2014, the industry provides 18% of gross value added in the country's economy and 2.9% of employment in the republic.
According to the National Report on the sale of penalties, in 2014 the companies produced in Kazakhstan paid more than 4.8 billion tenge.
Guests saw a video telling about the modern appearance, history and prospects of the development of the capital of Kazakhstan and received an invitation to EXPO 2017.
If the project is fully implemented, 200 residents of the city of Kentau will be employed, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of South Kazakhstan region.
the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" is being actively implemented in the region, the population is regularly familiarized with the conditions of the program, and participants are monitored.
On this day 113 tons of fruits, vegetables, 95 tons of meat, 22 tons of dairy products totaling 110 million tenge will be delivered to residents and guests of the metropolis.
It is planned that by the end of the year the contract will be signed at the level of deputy chiefs of general staff and from 2016 the training of Kyrgyz servicemen will begin in Kazakhstan.
Unlike a height of 50 meters, the volume of the entertainment center "doom" is 4.5 cm in diameter, and the diameter of the circus building is 5 cm.
During the event, students of schools in Atyrau sent 10 thousand pieces of sturgeon fish to the Ural River.
Recall that the White Net plant has been successfully operating in the Mangistau region since 1997.
As part of the Ufa summit, the heads of state adopted a strategy for the development of shu until 2025.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
state registration of legal entities, registration of their branches and representative offices has been available on the e-government portal since 2013.
As members of Eurasia, 8 national aeronautical service providers participate in Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
According to the Minister, in 2014 compared to 2011, the number of enterprises active in single-industry towns increased by an average of 20% and amounted to 29.5 thousand units.
During the trade mission in Kyrgyzstan, agreements were concluded with large pharmaceutical companies, currently contracts worth more than $1 million have been concluded. as a result of the trade mission in kyrgyzstan , we reached an agreement with major pharmaceutical companies at the moment , the representatives negotiate on the signing of contracts worth more than 1 million dollars .
For various industries, a period of passage of up to 5 years is established, during which we receive state support and introduce other types of support, "he said.
Currently, the kazatomprom is studying 318 students at colleges and universities in Kazakhstan and Russia.
these are reforms to improve the investment climate, 100 steps taken by us, "the vice minister concluded.
The existence of a neurosurgical centre in the Central Asian region, registered on the basis of jci standards, became possible in 2013 due to the holding of courses of the European Association of Neurosurgeons in the capital. due to the creation of the neurosurgical center in 2013 , in central asian region , it became possible to conduct courses of the european association of neurosurgical societies in astana .
It is worth noting that a press tour was held in the city polyclinic No. 10 under the chairmanship of the health department of Astana.
now we see the fruits of the activities of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, created in 1995 and serving under the slogan "For peace and harmony in our house."
The Chairman of the Board of the samruk-kazyn noted that the cheerful Shukeev airline qazaq air will be 12 routes, most of which will land in the regions of Kazakhstan and will fly without interruption.
In 2013, the head of state presented a special program of historical research "People in the Wake of History," the name of which is somewhat similar to the name of our book.
By the end of the year, 10 residential sections will be built in the nur aktobe microdistrict, a kindergarten and a school will be built.
In general, the "bayan beauty" intends to double the volume of exports to at least 40,000 tons by 2025.
During the meeting, the situation in global markets, ways to overcome crisis trends in the world economy, as well as the program of actions of Kazakhstan in this situation - five institutional reforms and the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" were discussed.
foreign investors are granted exemption from customs duties for 5 years, as well as natural grants as land.
roadmap includes 26 potential industries of energy, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, information technology, chemical industry, pharmaceuticals.
Recall that this week in the military unit 31775 of the regional command "Capital" started a ten-day training and methodological gathering of young lieutenants who graduated this year from higher military educational institutions in Almaty.
According to preliminary data, the VI Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will be held in late May or early June 2018.
This year, 256 thousand square meters of housing are planned to be commissioned in the region at the expense of budget and extrabudgetary funds, which is 103% of the year in 2014.
Another task of the head of state within the framework of the National Plan - 100 concrete steps - the transfer of ethnocultural organizations to the implementation of national tasks. as part of the national plan - 100 concrete steps another order of the president - participation of ethnocultural associations of kazakhstan in realization of national goals is realized .
The head of state announced 5 institutional reforms and 100 concrete steps to implement them, a working group was approved for each reform. the head of state announced 5 institutional reforms and 100 steps to implement them , there are working groups for each reform .
Taking into account the cases of last year, 793 cases were completed, including 308 criminal cases or 38.8% of sentences were handed down, "said M. Zhangutdinov.
The industry geography of air liguide refining includes 80 countries, 410 atmospheric gas production plants, 80 hydrogen and syngas production plants.
in addition, in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan, 566 thousand tons of oil (23 thousand barrels per day) were shipped under the terms of mutual oil supply to Russia.
In 2015, the volume of the approved quota for raising funds amounted to 0.7% (about 63.9 thousand people) of the total economically active population of the republic.
Kazakhstan has excellent opportunities for 85% of electricity production from minerals and subsequent transformation.
today 54% of the population of the country is provided by the service sector, and we pay great attention to the development of this industry.
Thus, a study aimed at determining the level of satisfaction of users of judicial activities was attended by 193 thousand 12 people in 206 district and equivalent courts.
According to the Minister, there are sensitive issues for Kazakhstan.
In general, over the past 5 years, the volume of investments of processing enterprises in fixed assets has increased from 120.9 to 228.3 billion tenge, the report said.
Until 2020, more than 7,500 km of roads will be reconstructed, new highways will be built between the capital and the regions.
if farmers receive a good harvest, then they can be sown ahead of schedule, and this time is fixed for June 6, "said the head of the region.
In this regard, a tripartite meeting between the heads of Kazakhstan, Turkmen and Iranian railways will be held in the second half of December 2015 in Ashgabat (Turkmenistan).
in the new version of the law on public procurement, we reduced the conditions for the purchase by the customer of goods from one source by about 11 times.
Currently, there are 41 seed farms in eastern Kazakhstan, including 2 farms holding the position of producer of original seeds, 7 farms produce elite seeds.
17 administrative materials were received by the specialized inter-district administrative court of the capital in electronic form from the administrative police department of Astana during the day from the day of launch of this functionality.
The President also noted that the national plan of institutional reforms has been adopted - a comprehensively improved plan of "100 concrete steps."
Thus, at the end of last year, the company's deposits at the expense of its own funds amounted to 271.7 billion tenge - 66% of the total investment in fixed assets. last year , investments at the expense of own funds amounted to 271.7 billion tenge - 66 % of the total figure .
the successful socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and the inclusion in the list of 30 most developed countries of the world by 2050 is directly related to the modernization of health care.
It is noted that the akimats of the regions, Astana and Almaty are working on the construction of 8 bus stations, 43 bus stations, 160 passenger service points (villages, villages) and 1048 taxi stations.
The head of state founded the great steppe over the past 20 years, at least for 550 years, "said E. Sydykov.
team coach - two-time champion of Kazakhstan and Russia in taekwondo, silver medalist of the 1995 World Cup among military personnel captain anuar usen.
aa. Kazykhanov noted that the idea of creating the Eurasian Economic Union was proposed by the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in 1994, and the agreement on Eurasia was signed in 2014 in the capital.
As follows from the message, a 4 km long route passes through the reconstruction of the heating line.
In general, 12,206 interlocutors in 193 district and balanced courts participated in the study on the level of satisfaction of users of court services.
In total, 280 vacancies were presented at the fair, including a cook, a pastry welder, a driver, an assistant accountant, a programmer and equestrian, a tailor-operator, employees of construction organizations, etc.
It should be noted that such events will be organized by the end of summer at open areas and in 9 parks of the capital.
To win the right to participate in the Olympics in Brazil, athletes of the national team will take part in 43 Asian championships, 31 licensed world championships and 140 multi-day world cups.
It is worth noting that one of the first documents signed by the head of State of Kazakhstan was the Convention on the Rights of Children, ratified in 1994.
In addition, the development of design estimates for 68 km of the Petropavlovsk - border of the Russian Federation section (end of 2015) continues.
Delegations of 164 member States review the annual reports on nuclear security, as well as the agency's report, programme and budget.
A video about Kazakhstan was presented to the participants of the round table, as well as a national plan "100 concrete steps" translated into Vietnamese, as well as various information materials about Kazakhstan.
all obligations to deliver textbooks and methodological literature to the following areas and cities are 100% fulfilled: Kurganzhinsky district, Tselinograd district, Astrakhan district, Shortandinsky district, Egindykol district, good district, stepnogorsk city.
at the tournament Kazakhstan (akmola region) boxer karina Ibragimova won a gold medal in the weight category 64 kg.
In 2015, the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture attracted interest-free loans in the amount of 91.7 million tenge.
In the first direction "Support for new business initiatives," the second-level bank supported the project of Read uba LLP for the purchase of agricultural machinery and equipment in the amount of 145 million tenge.
379 objects were put up for auction, 201 objects were sold, 10 on republican property, 88 on communal property, 58 on acks, 45 on holdings.
The meeting discussed issues of modernization of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan within the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
The President of Kazakhstan set a task to increase the number of people employed in mass physical culture and sports to 30% by 2020. the president of kazakhstan set the task to increase mass classes in physical education and sport by 30 % until 2020 .
Ambassador Tuimebayev, speaking at the opening ceremony, informed about the foreign policy initiatives of Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the "plan of the nation - 100 concrete steps" voiced by President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
to date, 74 college engineers and teachers have completed advanced training courses on new technologies of study taking into account industrialization (Minsk, jamk (Finland), ocr (UK)). as for today , 74 engineering and teaching staff of colleges upgraded their skills in new technologies ( minsk , jamk ( finland ) , ocr ( uk ) within industrialization .
According to EEC Chairman Viktor Khristenko, 2014 was very successful in terms of integration.
It is worth noting that the committee is a club of donor states, which includes 29 states recognized at the world level.
According to the deputy akim of the region, the volume of construction works in January-May 2015 amounted to 41.5 billion tenge or 92% compared to the same period of 2014.
This year, competitions are held in eight categories: regular elementary, regular junior high, regular high school, open elementary, open junior high, open high school, robot football and student category.
As expected, the ice TV prize ceremony at the Capital Arena stadium will be attended by about 35 thousand people and will be able to visit about 100 million people.
to date, 7% are subject to state subsidies, that is, the economy will not pay 12.8% per annum, but 5.8%.
Given that Kazkommertsbank customers make one-time payments daily in more than 100 countries, the image of expo 2017 will be promoted through plastic bank cards in these countries.
As of July 20 of this year, the coverage of textbooks in the capital and Almaty amounted to 98%, Pavlodar region - 96 percent, Almaty - 63, Karaganda - 93, zhambyl - 41, yuko - 34.9%, construction - 35, sko - 50, zko - 37.5, akmola - 32, kostanay - 12.5, aktobe - 18, vko-12, mangistau - 38, Kyzylorda region - 18%, - said the news agency.
Recall, on March 26, 2015, Astana Expo-2017 and the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region signed a memorandum on attracting producers of the region to the construction of the expo-2017 exhibition complex.
We believe that the adoption of the bill under consideration will bring the total number of reductions to 50%, "he added.
If 13 facilities will be put into operation in 2014, then following the results of the current year the commissioning of such enterprises is expected, "the deputy akim said.
The ratification of the Convention further guarantees the protection and exercise of constitutional rights and freedoms to 627,000 persons with disabilities and their families living in Kazakhstan.
the republic recently introduced a new energy matrix and intends to become the first state in the world with a zero carbon balance by 2021.
at the same time, from 2016, the obligations of the state budget to pay 20% of mandatory pension contributions from the monetary support of employees of potential structures will be canceled.
One striking example is the Maya manza, which achieved gold at the 2012 Olympic Games in London.	in 2012 in london at the olympics maya maneza won  gold , " now she prepares for the world cup .
According to the results of the first half of the year, inflation amounted to 1.4%, which is 3.9% more than in 2015.
As noted during the meeting, the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) intend to sign an agreement on shipping by the end of 2015.
During these 20 years, a Kazakhstani nation was created with golden letters named after all representatives of ethnic groups and religious denominations. the kazakh nation was formed within these 20 years , woven with golden threads of all ethnic groups and religious confessions .
our response to modern challenges is the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the goal of which is to include the country among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
In addition, there are 322 school health camps and 417 food-free sites at educational institutions.
The capital's office works for six months, 130 children are being treated.
the work experience of the head of the rural club of zhaskurat and the primary teacher of the bayan kenzhebayeva is 28 years.
the new building provides a gym for two floor carpets (12x12 m) with a total area of ​ ​ 447 square meters (18x26m) and for individual power training.
If these measures currently last 30-40 days, then according to the proposed procedure they will be reduced to an average of 5 days.
in addition, by January 1, 2016 it is proposed to return to the budget income 50 percent of the amount of mandatory pension contributions transferred in their favor at the expense of budget funds.
Thus, for 7 months of this year the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 144.3 billion tenge, having increased by 7.5% compared to the same period of 2014.
According to the Governor of the region, 851 projects worth 104 billion tenge will be put into operation in the second five-year plan of industrial development in South Kazakhstan region and 19 thousand new jobs will be created.
Today, as part of our work in the regions, my colleagues and I decided to consider the problems of business, which the head of state outlined for 100 concrete steps. "
Last year, foreign investment around the world fell to 8%, with growth in developing countries reaching 50%. last year foreign investment decreased to about 8 % worldwide , while in developing countries to about 50 % .
Since 1996, he began working at the Incai field, becoming one of the successful projects during this time.
The international expert commission determines the 40 best groups for further master classes on the formation of startups and the analysis of the investment attractiveness of commercial projects.
Recall that according to the results of two days they scored 175 points.
In addition, this is preparation for the 2017 World Winter Universiade in Almaty, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
As of 8 June, 14.7 million hectares of spring crops were under way or 96 per cent of the plan had been completed.
Today, about 6 thousand Russian companies operate in Kazakhstan, a large amount of investments in dollar equivalent has been accumulated.
In addition, at the expense of the republican budget, as part of the regional development program, 8 educational facilities will be covered by ongoing repairs and equipment, the report said.
In particular, work on the project began in June 2014, its completion is scheduled for September 2016, "said a representative of the general contractor.
in addition, it is equipped with an equatorial platform with a meade 16 "lx 600-asf" telescope for astronomical photographs, video shooting and observing objects in the sky.
The volume of industrial production in January-May 2015 in current prices amounted to 5678.8 billion tenge, which is by 0.5% more than in January-May 2014.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, the competition of social responsibility of business "paryz" has been held on the initiative of the head of state since 2008.
Exactly a month ago, applications for connecting individual residential buildings, objects of business entities and other objects to the gas network began, at the moment gas pipelines and installations for 40 residential buildings have been installed.	the works in 40 houses are being started .	2,31
From 2000 to summer 2014, with the exception of the financial crisis of 2008-2009, according to the head of government, Kazakhstan was very positive for the economy, as prices for all export goods rose steadily.	according to the head of the government , from 2000 to the summer of 2014 with the exception of the financial crisis of 2008-2009 , kazakhstan had very favorable economic period , as there was a constant increase in the prices of all exports .	2,31
And for us, education is the main prerequisite for our development as an independent state, the entry into the 30 first states headed by the head of state.
23 pump schools teach patients and their parents the skills of calculating nutrition, using insulin pumps and installing them.
Currently, the production capacity of the enterprise reaches 1.5 million garments and 400 pairs of shoes per year.
Today, Kazakhstan is among the 50 competitive countries, as well as among the twenty states in which a large number of investments are attracted, "the head of state said.
There is also the financial efficiency of this measure - we can save about 300 million tenge by placing our offices next to our fields, "A. Zhumagaliyev explained.
On December 8, 2011, the opening ceremony of the new building of the republican school "Zhas Ulan" was held with the participation of the President of the country - the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.
the organizers of the issue were citi, jp morgan, kazkommerts securities and halyk finance.
It is reported that 33% of people sent to public works helped organizations of housing and communal services clear the territory of the city and rural settlements.
domestic consumption of dairy products is carried out at the expense of domestic production: processed milk - 95%, dairy goods - 87%, butter - 60%, cheese - 50%, "said E. Akhmetov.
According to the head of the ashma, Eurasia Agro Holding LLP plans to build a meat processing plant with a capacity of 17 thousand tons of meat.
Recall, on July 31, in the capital of Malaysia, the international Olympic Committee at the next session will determine the city where the 2022 Winter Olympics will be held.
Following the meeting, the heads of the defense department approved a plan of cooperation between the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan and each Ministry of Defense for 2016.
It is worth noting that partnerships with the Chinese Petroleum University have been ongoing since 2013.
In addition, during the CIS meeting held today, 40 issues related to the further development of cooperation between the CIS member countries in the fields of economy, trade, culture and security were considered.
It is noted that container trains ran 5 times a week between Almaty and Lianyungan, and the annual cargo turnover reached 100 thousand containers.	currently the freight turnover between almaty and lianyungang is 100 thousand containers per year with weekly running of 5 trains .	2,32
In recent years, 10 world championships in various sports have been held in the metropolis, 1.1 thousand sports facilities operate in the city, the mayor said.
for example, according to the minister, in 2014 compared to 2013, butter production increased by 11.6%, milk powder - by 24.4%.
Since the beginning of the year, 126 business projects worth 2.7 billion tenge have been developed by consultants of business support centers.
During the operational-search measures, 28 citizens registered with the department for the fight against organized crime were prosecuted.
attracting only 1% of this volume will exceed 10 million passengers, which will have a huge multiplier effect for airlines and airports of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, it is planned to visit a number of facilities, as well as participate in the opening ceremony of the monument dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
In 2016, it is planned to complete the delivery of all services under contracts and power lines of the Nauryzbay district.
development of fodder production: 36 projects worth 7.32 billion tenge were approved with a capacity of 68.7 thousand tons of fodder and 211.8 thousand tons of fodder per year.
Recall that the Singapore Government Investment Corporation is one of the largest global wealth funds investing in large assets in 40 countries.
According to the results of the first half of 2015, consolidated revenue amounted to 106 billion 645.8 million tenge, which is 6.2% higher than the same indicator for the first half of 2014.
To date, we produce 2.5 thousand square meters of carpets per year and provide work for 180 people.
16 families consisting of 27 people were solemnly handed the keys to new apartments in the city of Derzhavinsk.
in addition, they were talking about strategic programs of the state, such as the Plan of the Nation "Nұrly zhol" and "100 concrete steps."
It should be noted that on the instructions of the head of the region Danial Akhmetov, the akimats of the districts presented 123 projects totaling 146.4 billion tenge for implementation together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
I think that this share in Kazakhstan is even greater, in Kazakhstan industry until 2020 it is possible to reduce energy consumption by 10% annually.
In order to combat corruption, work is being carried out to reduce it, multidisciplinary work is being carried out in the establishment of agricultural college No. 4 of the Arshalyn district.
The first part of the film "Sky of my childhood" was shown to Chinese viewers in 2013 as part of the Kazakh film week.
the captain of the guard talgat bigeldin received the second gold star on June 27, 1945 for the liberation of the Krakow, Oppeln, Katowice, Breslav and Berlin cities from the enemy.
we have been working in the market for more than 10 years, during which time we have become leaders in our health.
Following the meetings, an agreement on transportation worth 5 million tenge was signed, "the technical director of Amitech astana LLP said.
Recall that at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 11, 2015, the head of state noted the effectiveness of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program and instructed to intensify it.
Since January 2016, we planned to release exhibition participants who gained experience from the exhibition in Milan.	in this context , the completion of construction and installation work is tentatively scheduled in september 2016 , and the quality is not affected .	2,33
tigovishte is the administrative center of Dymbovitsky Uyezd - a city in southern Romania, 75 kilometers northwest of Bucharest.	we remind that targoviste is a county administrative center of dambovita - the city in the south of romania , 75 km north-west of bucharest .	2,33
today, the industrial zone is conditionally divided into 18 plots, each of which is about 2.5 hectares for each applicant.	now the industrial zone is conditionally divided into 18 plots , an average of 2.5 hectares for each applicant .	2,33
Recall that in Kazakhstan, from October 1 of this year, a campaign is being conducted to further immunize adolescents aged 15 to 19 years against measles.	since october 1 , kazakhstan holds the campaign on additional immunization against measles of adolescents aged 15-19 years old .	2,33
In his speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that a bright manifestation of the qualitative development of the organization is the Shu development strategy until 2025.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed that a clear indication of the qualitative improvement of the organization is the signing of the sco development strategy until 2025 .	2,33
judo is one of the most popular sports in the republic, which more than 80 thousand Kazakhstanis regularly engage in.	judo is one of the most popular sports in the country , more than 80 thousand kazakhs are engaged in it on a permanent basis .	2,33
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.	in all of as for the republican property , 34 objects have been privatized .	2,34
jogmeg Corporation "was established in 2004 to supply and supply the necessary oil, gas, coal and mineral resources to Japanese industry.
At the same time, as the head of the department noted, if in the country last year the worn-out heat supply system amounted to 70%, then in the capital this figure was 59%.
At the same time, the total amount of funds from the sale amounted to: 2,730 million tenge for republican property, 1,277 million tenge for communal property, 60,835 million tenge for holdings and 2,917 million tenge for shares.
Deputy Prime Minister also examined the regional cardiology center, the kindergarten "Alen," built at the expense of his own funds 54 million tenge, got acquainted with the activities of social facilities of the Taldykorgan.
in this regard, countries should adopt an indc (integrated nationally determined contributions) document regulating the national digital share to limit and/or reduce greenhouse gas emissions between 2021 and 2030.
One of the main indicators is an increase in the life expectancy of the population, if you compare this indicator with 2010, the growth will be 3.6%.
Also, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov invited Chinese representatives to take part in the international exhibition of military equipment and weapons "Kadex-2016," which will be held in Astana in June 2016.
It is worth noting that from 2008 to 2013, the volume of investments decreased by 25% per year, but we maintained an increase of 18%, "he said.
China proposed a number of country initiatives in 2013, such as the Silk Road economic belt, free trade with Vietnam, and the creation of the Eeo Business Council.
In order to implement the third direction of the program (employment through training and relocation as part of the employer's demand), about 289 million tenge is provided.
In general, the action "My Kazakhstan Train" was held from March 23 to April 22, during which time the train managed to bypass 29 settlements, "he said.
now work is carried out with different countries, kaznex invest opens its representative office in 8 countries of the world, this is work that is carried out to establish relations and work with all investors. now the work is carried out with different countries , that is , kaznex invest will open representative offices in 8 countries , in almost all regions of the world in order to have direct access to investors and to firmly carry out the work with investors .
$100 million of the total investment amount will be allocated to the logistics zone, $500 million for specific projects in the industrial zone, "the national company said.
The head of state sets the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world, on this path we will be guided by the standards of the participating countries of economic cooperation, "he explained.
If in the first school year 6-7 thousand books are available to students and teachers, then next year the book fund in the library will replenish up to 20 thousand copies.
In addition, Polite Batyr LLP, which uses drip irrigation for 55 hectares and rain irrigation for 400 hectares, presented its work.
the reforms carried out in the country give us confidence and we can become one of the 30 developed states of the world, today we are approaching a new stage of development, "said E. sagadiyev.
The form ensures the implementation of all methods using the latest technology, for example, the krauss network was acquired in 2013.
Work on 9 projects that will be held in 2016 will be continued and completed until the end of 2016, the projects "Western Europe - Western China," "," "Astana - Temirtau," "Almat - Kapshagai - Taldykorgan," "" capital - Petropavlovsk "." isekeshev.
over the past three years, health financing, including the republican budget, has increased by 23% and amounted to 69 billion tenge, the report said.
the index of volume of products in the manufacturing industry in January-June of this year amounted to 127.5% by January-June of 2014.
As part of the financial support of DBK, 24 investment projects totaling 506 billion tenge were launched into the industrialization map, of which 251 billion tenge were financed.
According to the Ministry's plan, all schools in the country will be provided with textbooks and teaching aids by August 20 of this year. according to the approved plan of the mes , every school in the country should be provided with textbooks and teaching materials until august 20 .
In January-March 2015, foreign direct investment in pharmaceutical enterprises amounted to 6.6 million US dollars.
This year, the number of registered enterprises increased by 7.3% compared to the same period last year, the average - by 8%, "the report said.
we must explain to schoolchildren from the school walls that we, as a state, should be among the 30 most developed countries in the world. we must make it clear to the students that we , as the nation , must become one of 30 most developed countries of the world .
army athletes will perform in 10 sports - free-style wrestling, sports orientation, judo, swimming, Greco-Roman wrestling, shooting, military pentathlon, taekwondo, athletics, boxing.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, this bill was developed as part of the implementation of the law "On Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities," signed by the head of state on February 20 this year.
In 2013-2014, 258 cars were purchased, which allowed to replenish a third of the fleet of cars.
according to a separate kaztransoil, oil turnover amounted to 27 billion 511 million tons-kilometers, which is 3% higher than the planned indicator and 2% higher than the same indicator for 9 months of 2014.
imports fell by 38 per cent, halving customs revenue.	the imports volume has decreased by 38 % , as a result of decreased customs duties .	2,35
Recall that the fifth summer World Army Games among military personnel were held in 2011 in Rio de Janeiro.	we remind that the v summer world games among military servicemen were held in rio de janeiro in 2011 .	2,35
It is worth noting that special olympics "in Kazakhstan, 630 Kazakhstani athletes with disabilities took part in the World Special Sports Games 12 times.
It is noted that the highest indicator was in South Kazakhstan region (7 thousand), in Almaty and Kostanay regions 3 and 2 thousand youth were placed, respectively.
document circulation decreased by 70%, we excluded many points, now this procedure is significantly simplified, "M. Abdrakhmanov explained.
According to him, in December 2014, the second tranche from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 50 billion tenge by 90.6% was developed for entrepreneurs of the manufacturing industry.
To meet the needs of iidmb-2 in 2015-2016, taking into account international experience and the requirements of industrialization, 8 educational programs are planned to be introduced in 10 colleges. to meet the needs of the spiid for 2015-2016 it 's planned to introduce 8 new educational programs tailored to the requirements of the international experience and the industrialization of 10 colleges .
According to him, the coverage of children from 3 to 6 years old in the region amounted to 91%, from 1 to 6 years old - 60.5%.
our cars, which we are now supplying, are separated from the previous ones, the modern tullar-talgo car design is 20 cm wider than before.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev:
future school work "offers a new format for teaching English" 6 + 6, "which will study the language in Kazakhstan in the first 6 months, the remaining 6 months - abroad," the report said.
Since the beginning of the year, 934 thousand square meters of housing have been commissioned in the region, which is 2014 times more than in 1.9 years.
According to him, for 5 years under the program, gold growth amounted to 418 tons, which exceeds production.
According to the deputy, according to the plan of priority measures of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015, it is planned to reduce customs rates according to the model "0-5-12."
From March 16 to June 8 of this year, mobilization groups covered 956 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 2,260 times, including 12 unscheduled ones.
According to him, in order to implement the "100 concrete steps" program, it is necessary to contribute foreign investors, the state must guarantee their interest.
the team will see the fire and immediately call "101," but due to strong winds, the fire will hit coastal structures.
in addition, it should be noted in the partnership program of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, held in 2011 in New York, as well as the green bridge, which was raised in 2012 in Rio de Janeiro and supported by the international community.
members of the council considered the progress and results of the implementation of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, as well as the draft Concept of the Development of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan until 2025.
In accordance with the decision of the Government of Montenegro, which entered into force on April 23, 2015, citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan from April 15 to October 31, 2015 can enter the territory of Montenegro without a visa up to 30 days.
As a result of the semi-annual activity of the comprehensive plan, 190.6 thousand people were covered, including more than 100 thousand citizens.
In the period from March 16 to June 1 of this year, mobilization groups covered 887 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 2059 times, including 12 unscheduled ones.
for example, if we talk about passenger transport, then for them the level of import duty in the amount of 25% used by the Eeo will be 15-18%.
according to him, the committee's competence includes measures to implement 8 steps related to customs and tax administration.
Currently, Baiterek holding approved financial support for eight companies in the amount of 16 billion tenge.
Recall that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people "Nұrly zhol" of November 11, 2014 noted the need to improve the conditions for attracting new investments.
In order to implement the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019, a new industrialization map for 869 billion tenge has been adopted. 115 projects.
In this regard, we invite Kazakhstanis to take part in the Horizon 2020 program, "said Maria Kristna Russo.
According to him, in order to achieve the goals set for 2010 and 2014, systematic work was carried out on the implementation and formation of an energy conservation policy.
The deputy head of the department also noted that the innovative structure is one of the tasks of entering industrial park No. 1.
In addition, in 2015, the volume of transfers from the republican budget amounted to 9.9 million tenge, of which 3.8 million tenge was allocated for the payment of conditional financial assistance.
As the head of state noted, these are the highest values ​ ​ in 30 developed countries of the world, and Kazakhstan is striving for this.
In the first half of 2015, the National Bank invested pension assets in accordance with the investment declaration in the amount of 560.4 billion tenge.
bronze medalist of the 2005 World Cup and 2008 World Cup, two-time silver medalist of the Asian Games, participant in the Olympics in Beijing and London.
Also, consultations on the social program "Employment Roadmap 2020" and other sectoral state programs will be presented at the job fair.
the first cosmonaut Tokar Aubakirov made his first flight into space 24 years ago, we surpassed many negotiations for this visit, we carried it out, "the head of state said.
Therefore, within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, employees of the district were involved in the quality of public service, "he said.
in the work book of his father Kanatbaev, the victorious son, there is only one entry written in 1960.
For a third of the funds provided by the project, a 9-kilometer water supply network will be reconstructed.
Aktobe carries out targeted work on the implementation of investment projects included in the industrialization map of Kazakhstan, during the implementation of the first stage of this program 43 new investment projects were implemented in the city.
Astana-Duathlon 2015 will contribute to the development of sports and physical culture, as well as draw the attention of the population to a healthy lifestyle.
I believe that in the referendum on the constitution on August 30, 1995, Kazakhstan chose the only right path, which 20-year history proved, "the head of state emphasized.
According to the Governor of the region, despite the fact that the region is oil and affects the global crisis, economic growth in 2015 amounted to 101.5%.
24 projects were introduced in the second five-year plan of the industrialization map, the volume of investments will amount to 1.2 trillion tenge, jobs will be opened - 6 thousand.
production of precious and non-ferrous metals had a significant impact on the growth of the volume index (302.8% by January-June 2014).
This event was organized as part of the implementation of the first direction of 5 institutional reforms of the head of state on the formation of a professional state apparatus.
The construction of the enterprise began in 2011, nasan was commissioned in 2012, in 2013 the plant's products began to be sold to national companies.
This competition was a striking example of Kazakhstani patriotism, only 245 projects acted among themselves for the decisive stage of the competition.
a coordinated energy policy and a common energy market should be pursued in the next 10 years.
Recall that according to the sales schedule in 2014-2015, it is planned to sell 495 objects: 34 on republican property, 244 on communal property, 110 on socio-entrepreneurial corporations, 107 on national companies and holdings.
As part of the event, the book "Houses of the Kazakh steppe: memoirs of a volunteer of the world corps" was presented, which became the bestseller of the online store "amazon.com" and won the 2015 prize "moritz thomsen peace corps experience."
under two programs for financing nanotechnologies and "robotics" of metallurgy, 16 industrial enterprises included in the industrialization map are listed.
about 12 thousand combine harvesters, more than 3 thousand grates, 8.6 thousand trucks and 18.36 thousand tractor trailers and other equipment are involved in harvesting.
As a result of this program, we will restore 7 thousand roads, railways, airports, ports of the Caspian Sea, continue the economic belt of the Silk Road.
According to the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development, in 1994-2017. The volume of Canadian investments in the economy of Kazakhstan exceeded 16 billion US dollars.
As part of the official visit of the head of state to the UK on November 3, 2015, an agreement with the EU was signed in London, "he said.
By the way, express routes are free for preferential categories of citizens, and for schoolchildren there is a 50% discount.
During the visit to China, we signed a contract with the Chinese side in the amount of $23 billion, it is planned to launch dozens of facilities. during my visit to china , we entered into a contract with the chinese side in the amount of 23 billion dollars , we plan to create dozens of companies .
The main part of these funds consists of loan funds in the amount of 60 billion tenge allocated to the holding from the republican budget to carry out measures to support the subjects of the agro-industrial complex.
If you pay attention to the division of countries, then most of the applications came from Kazakhstan - 262 projects (76%), from Ukrainian startup groups - 46 projects (13%), as well as startup groups of the Russian Federation, which submitted 14 (4%) projects to the program.
the number of convicts in the country has significantly decreased, and the total amount of funds returned to the state for economic crimes committed this year amounted to about 950 million tenge.
at 15:00 metropolitan time, voting for the applicant city for the XXIV Winter Olympic Games of 2022 ended.
to date, 493.9 thousand people receive state social benefits for disability, 182 thousand people for the loss of a breadwinner, and 5.2 thousand people for age.
however, 29 recommendations came from print, 44 from electronic tanks, 8 from individual candidates not nominated on behalf of a certain tank.
The Governor of the region reported on the socio-economic development of eastern Kazakhstan since the beginning of 2015 and the implementation of state programs.
In accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 9, 2015 No. 56 in the city, 15 mothers with many children were awarded the Golden Collegium and Silver Collegium government awards.
At the first stage of the project, consisting of four stages, the investor - the company "mjm investment so" is ready to invest more than $50 million.
In 6 branches of idmb, 10 colleges and 10 universities were specified for training, "said B. Saparbayev.
To date, 257 postmen have received bicycles, of which 159 - in Pavlodar region and 98 - in rural areas. today , 257 rural postmen are provided with bikes : 159 in pavlodar and 98 in mangistau region and all postmen working in the villages of the above regions .
He noted that the Kazakh movement, having achieved significant success over 25 years, is able to prove itself in the international arena.
The summit focused on the future development of the continent and the strengthening of the role of women through the Africa 2063 agenda.	au summit was devoted to strengthening of the role of women and the further development of the continent through african agenda - 2063 .	2,39
This year, at 8:30 a.m. on September 18, the Congress Hall Palace will host the grand opening of the festival.
Last year, by order of the Minister of Education and Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 24 educational organizations were selected, these are pilot projects of the traditional spiritual educational program "Self-Knowledge."
To date, out of 6 of these projects, 3 projects for the modernization of heating networks in the city of Kapchagai have been fully completed.
In 2012, the Labour Code was amended to prohibit the conclusion of employment contracts with previously convicted citizens.
In accordance with the contract, funds are provided for the supply of 200 units of a new generation of city buses from 2016 to 2017.
for example, Kazakhstan initiated the convening of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, which brings together 30 Asian countries, including China, India and Pakistan.
45 facilities will be built with these significant funds, of which 6 schools and kindergartens, 28 health facilities and others.
In 2015, Kik JSC provided 4.5 billion tenge for the construction and purchase of rental housing.
This year Pavlodar gardeners plan to collect more than 400 thousand tons of potatoes (which is 34% more than last year) and 180 thousand tons of vegetables.
Among the enterprises that received state support are dolce LLP, center nova diagnostic LLC, Reach Cargo Service LLP, Dorsnab multidisciplinary company, Kazmaly LLP, Aquarius LLC and 17 individual entrepreneurs plan to purchase fixed assets - equipment and buildings - for credit funds.
According to background data, the French business group has invested about 10 billion US dollars in Kazakhstan over the past 10 years.
It is worth noting that since 2008 the statue has been the imam of the local rural mosque.
The amount of taxes paid by small and medium-sized businesses to the state budget amounted to 7,049,2 million tenge, of which 2,467,2 million tenge was allocated to the local state fund, the report said.
1,436 veterans received honorary labor leave from the Department of Internal Affairs of Kyzylorda region.
In January-August 2015, the production of crude oil, coal and iron ores decreased compared to the same period in 2014.
these are 5 centers: "The capital is the heart of Eurasia," "Almat" is the free cultural zone of Kazakhstan, "" the unity of nature and nomadic culture - Altai margin, the opening of the great silk road, "" Caspian Gate. "
all this should be our main goal - to become one of the 30 competitive countries in the world, "the head of state said.
As of June 1, the number of recipients of the basic pension payment amounted to 1 million 971.8 thousand people, and the total pension payments will receive 1 million 938 thousand people.
Recall that the group is one of the world's largest producers of cement, concrete and fillers, owning 12 cement, 226 concrete plants, 70 quarries.
The construction of 12 houses will be completed in the near future, which means that in the near future 24 more families will receive the keys to new apartments.
today, 10 largest companies joined us as sponsors: a consortium of ncoc, air capital, cisco, saint-gobain and others, "said E. Corman.
milk processing: approved 6 projects worth 1.93 billion tenge, total capacity of dairy production 24.1 thousand tons.
It is planned to build 14 facilities for the winter Olympiad in Almaty, including an Olympic village with 5.5 thousand seats.
It is worth noting that in 2016, housing is expected for 70 families from 2 apartment buildings built by the white company Kazakhstan Mortgage Company.
70 graduates of the Bolashak program, teachers and researchers of the university became participants in the dialogue.
today, the state has a great task to become one of the 30 competitive countries in the world.
According to Nurzhanov, in January 2015, amendments to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On subsoil and subsoil use" entered into force.
as a result of the measures taken, it is noted that over the past 10 years, the rate of juvenile delinquency has constantly slowed down by 6%.
they adequately performed at prestigious international sports competitions and won 28 gold, 49 silver and 48 bronze awards in 15 sports.
As the head of the committee explained, tax inspections are carried out only to persons included in the risk zone, they do not reach 1%.
The school, consisting of 9 blocks, houses 70 classrooms and 25 laboratories equipped with the latest type of school equipment.
Since its launch, more than 108 million services have been delivered through egov and electronic services have increased more than 100 times over the past 5 years. since the launch egov has rendered over 108 million services , and over the past 5 years the receiving of services in electronic form has been increased by more than 100 times .
construction industry enterprises provided an increase in the production of slabs, slabs, bricks and similar products from cement, concrete or artificial stone (117%), commercial concrete (116.2%).
Within the framework of the memorandum on mutual cooperation between the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region and the Eurasian group (erg), 90 million tenge was allocated for the reconstruction and equipment of the observatory.
Today, on the basis of concession agreements, projects are being implemented to build 11 kindergartens in cities with growth and Semipalatinsk.
in Kazakhstan, the project "commercialization of technologies" under the President of Kazakhstan has been implemented as part of an agreement on borrowing from the World Bank since 2008.
According to the forecasts of the National Bank, the volume of exports in 2016 will be $40 billion, which could grow to $52.2 billion in 2020. in 2016 the export volume will be $ 40 billion with a further increase to $ 52.2 billion in 2020 .
According to representatives of the fund, in the first quarter of this year, second-tier banks financed 778 borrowers in the amount of 42.1 billion tenge under conditional form programs.
On August 5, a mobile medical complex will visit the village of Hamit Ergali of the Isatai district.
In the first five-year plan, the president instructed to reduce the energy intensity of gin by 10%, decreasing by 18% in macroeconomic indicators, "said A. Rau.
At the same time, according to the researcher, at least 3 months enter the upper line of the corridor.
According to world information, 20% of traffic accidents occur due to hibernation at the wheel.
on the territory of 18.7 hectares of economic ownership, 150 thousand ornamental trees are grown, as well as shrubs of deciduous, coniferous, fruit and vegetable and ornamental purposes.
As lastayev noted, the number of Chinese cities where Kazakh airlines will fly has increased by 2 times.
As it became known, since 2014, the work of the independent expert commission has been considered and strengthened - this is the decisive stage of the selection stage.
Within 6 days, ground forces personnel need to demonstrate their ability to fire from all types of standard weapons of jakmas and tanks, and platoon commanders need to demonstrate their ability to control the fire of a unit in conditions as close to real combat and high-speed conditions as possible.
In general, more than 13 thousand votes were cast for the contest participants, of which more than 5 thousand for Tuleshova. in total , there were 13 thousand votes more than 5 thousand of them were given for daneliya tuleshova .
If we compare the indicators of local content in 2013 and 2014, then in engineering in 2013 - 25%, in 2014 - 30%, that is, there is an increase.
It is expected that the heads of state will summarize the results of the agreements reached during the last summits on September 11 this year and determine new obligations.
gross agricultural output in January-July 2015 amounted to 804.4 billion tenge and increased by 2.9% compared to January-July 2014.
In 2012, he visited an employment center in a good area in order to get a loan to open a sewing shop.
Recall that the Kazakh cosmonaut made a lunar flight to the international space station Ayymbetov on September 2, 2015.
according to the results of this report, Kazakhstan rose by 8 positions compared to the results of last year's rating and took 42nd place in the ranking among 140 countries.
Kazakhstani parliamentarians also called for increased cooperation with other international organizations in the field of security, including by the Ank of 1992 born on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
In the second quarter of 2015, 72.1% of registered legal entities were men and 27.2% of women.
also reduced the period for issuing duplicate certificates for the right to operate small vessels from 10 to 2 working days.
In 2014, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Poland exceeded 7337.5 thousand dollars.
Today, 11-year-old Timothy, the owner of the family, represents the Gerasimenko family in connection with leaving for competitions in Almaty. today , i represent gerasimenko 's family , as the family is in almaty with younger brother timofey , 11 years old .
For one day of the operational-preventive operation by the debtor, law enforcement officers checked at 1237 citizens with administrative fines.
The construction of another 5 kindergartens for 1080 places is also being completed, "said Svetlana Nareshova, acting head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning of the Mangistau Region.
In addition, in 2015, an agreement in the amount of $131 million will be concluded in Petropavlovsk, Kostanay, Semey and Taraz and relevant projects will be implemented.
the share of clients of the Development Fund in the structure of borrowers of second-tier banks, according to the first credit bureau of LLP, is 26%.
100 concrete steps will strengthen the strength that create conditions for a reliable passage of a difficult stage, strengthen Kazakhstan's statehood and ensure the rule of law.
As part of the Happy Childhood party project, the city branch of the Nұr Otan party has been holding the Prepare Children for School campaign since 2009.
It is worth noting that the adoption of this new bill provides for amendments and additions to 5 codes and 18 laws of the country.
The Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission approved the inclusion of Kyrgyzstan in the program of phased liberalization of cargo transportation from 2016 to 2025.
The increase in the life expectancy of Kazakhstanis over the past 5 years is evidence of the success of domestic medicine.
In addition, according to the head of the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 105 million services were provided within the framework of e-government, which is 66 times more than in 2010.
100 concrete steps "is the adoption of all laws of parliament, these are documents aimed at the fairness of the law.
the employer will transfer 5 percent of each employee's income to a single funded pension fund.
The work started in 2015 on the implementation of this project is currently being carried out in full and is planned to be completed in 2017
these are bizmo, indybo, mongoose, almacloud, crm, almasales, fascallmanager, picvpic, crystal projects.
On January 1, 2016, the common market for medicines and medical products will begin to function in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Since the beginning of this year, 118 thousand people have been employed, including 97.4 thousand citizens for permanent jobs, 20.7 thousand people for temporary work.
In connection with the supply of goods to the market, we held negotiations with 30 WTO member countries, as well as with 28 European Union states. the negotiations on market access for goods were held with 30 wto members , including 28 countries of the european union .
On October 22 of this year, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan met with the Chairman of the Regency Council of the Kedah State.
in addition, the budget income will include the amounts of 50% of mandatory pension contributions transferred from budget funds until January 1, 2016 in their favor.
Also, specialists of Aktobegordorstroy LLP began overhaul of Zharmagambetov Street in a southwestern housing estate 1340 meters long.
Competitions will be held in 9 sports: badminton, futsal, athletics, volleyball, basketball, chess, blitz chess, billiards, table tennis.
It should be noted that the number of banks participating in the program increased from 4 to 8 times compared to 2014.
Over the years, 91 ground and underground pedestrian crossings have been built, and this year it is planned to build 11 more transitional tracks.
51% of Poland's gross domestic product comes from small enterprises with no more than 9 employees. in poland , 51 percent of the gdp is allocated for microbusiness , employing up to 9 people .
The 2014 exercises organized by the Chinese side showed a high level and successful conduct of this exercise. military trainings of 2014 showed a high level of organization of the chinese party .
because the fund is 100 percent owned by the state and has direct and indirect support, as well as support such as regular capital construction.
Subsidizing the salaries of participants in youth practice is carried out at the expense of the state budget for a period of 6 months in the amount of 18 monthly calculated indicators (35,676 tenge).
From 2015 to 2019, it is planned to implement 70 anka projects in Kazakhstan, processing agricultural products for 140 billion tenge.
Individual income for kaztransoil in the first half of 2015 amounted to 97 billion 354.2 million tenge, which is 6.6% more than in the same period of 2014.
The opening of sulfide ore production is scheduled for the first quarter of 2016.
In 2011, in order to increase the attraction of investments in the region, in accordance with the decree of the Head of State, a special economic zone "Saryarka" was created in the region.
the potential volume of the coke box market is 450 lines per ton, and the average price is estimated at $67.5 million.
we are interested in attracting the best international partners, in the next 5 years a research center in the agricultural sector will be created in Kazakhstan, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to akim of the district kamytbek aitoreyev, today 35 ha. the territory is building an industrial zone and building engineering and communication systems.
we have a really unique situation, 9 people from 5 countries of the world will work for hgs, "said the acting Minister.
But these measures will be introduced from 2016, the Government of Kazakhstan will take measures to create infrastructure for processing, "he said.
28 winners received high knowledge, "said the pr-manager of the first president of Kazakhstan Timur Asylkhanov.
At the final stage of selection, the international expert commission determines 7 groups participating in the program of accelerated development of the silicon valley.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the Kazakh-Iranian business forum in the special economic zone "Park of Innovative Technologies" will be held in Almaty on July 22-24, 2015.
It is noted that as part of the industrialization map in Aktobe in 2015-2017, 10 projects worth 9.3 billion tenge are being implemented and 659 new jobs are expected to be created.
Within the framework of the meeting, the possibilities of training Kazakh specialists in higher educational institutions of Great Britain for priority projects of the "100 Steps" Plan of the Nation and the state program of industrial and innovative development were discussed.
It is worth noting that by the end of 2015 all tourist packages will be accumulated, in 2016 their sale will slow down.
100 concrete steps taken in 5 institutional reforms relate to global and internal contradictions, "said Z.Sayapova.
in Aktobe, Sko, Zhambyl region - 100%, and in Yuko - 81.8%, "he said.
It should be noted that the forum was attended by business representatives and officials of the two countries, as well as more than 100 Austrian companies.
As a result of the loan received in 2016-2017, 7.7 km of heating networks and 8 boiler houses will be reconstructed.
the average score according to the results of the UNT was 79.65, which is 3 points more than last year, "the head of the regional education department of the Aymagambets askhat said during a briefing today.
In 2016, it is planned to begin construction of 14 facilities, and in 2017-2018 it is planned to build another 4 facilities for the reconstruction of the Esil River industry.
Recall that from October 2010 to August 2014, Kairbekova salidat served as Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in Almaty region (177), North Kazakhstan region (161) and South Kazakhstan region (160).
500 people will be involved in the construction of the plant, and then 310 people will constantly work during the commissioning of the facility.
at the same time, he announced a plan for the implementation of the "plan of the nation - 100 steps" and warned of the need to submit it for approval.
This year 130 companies from Belarus, Germany, Georgia, Kazakhstan, China, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, Finland, France and Estonia took part in the exhibition.
In the third direction, 352 people were sent to qualification courses, 720 people were employed for social jobs, 556 people were involved in youth practice.
It should be noted that the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Vietnam in 2014 amounted to 271.7 million dollars, of which the export value - 1.7 million dollars, imports - 263.9 million dollars.
K.Massimov noted that this year the head of state initiated 100 steps to implement five institutional reforms and their implementation.
This year I present my author's project "Made in Kazakhstan" in the framework of the national contest "Miss Kazakhstan-2015."
As for the creation of the cycling team, according to the athlete, it is now being formed and will be presented in 2016.
5 million tenge is an opportunity to open a business, or to continue training and pursue a career. 5 million tenge is a very impressive sum of money , with the help of which you can open your own business , build the career or continue education at any university of the world or in our country .
This year, based on the experience of last year, farmers additionally sold 259 tractors, 131 combines, 160 dastlers, 15 grain dryers and other agricultural equipment worth more than 4.5 billion tenge.
the Almaty plant has been operating since 2004 and covers 5.82 hectares of the city. the plant has been operating in almaty since 2004 ; it is located on 5.82 hectares in the city .
Despite the unfavorable situation, the company plans to increase its capacity this year to 365 thousand tons per year.
This year, Kazakhstan started implementing the 2nd industrial five-year plan, however, given the strong negative influence of foreign economic and geopolitical factors, it was decided to update the state program, taking into account new conditions and technological trends.
an eternal country in the development of Kazakh identity, "the Kha law, the concept of the development of the people until 2025, the project" big state - big family. "
Among them, the implementation of 13 project projects worth 13.6 billion tenge, which will allow employing 1038 people, the development of the engineering industry.
Within the framework of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps, the center has defined its directions and main tasks.
According to the chief doctor of the regional hospital, more than 300 million tenge was spent on the repair of the therapeutic building, the pathoanatomic department and the power supply unit from the regional budget.
Trade relations of Kazakhstan are conducted in the mid-90s only with the countries of the former Soviet space, today we are conducting trade with 185 states of the world, "the head of state said.
According to our preliminary calculations, credit growth will increase by 0.12% to 1%.	the minister told about the preliminary estimate :  1 % loan growth contributes to 0.12 % gdp growth .
At the end of the meeting, Tokayev called for participation in the international conference "Religion against Terrorism," which will be held in mid-2016.
of which 10 objects of republican property, 84 objects of communal property, 56 objects, 42 objects from the property of holdings were sold, "the report said.
by the end of the year and in the first half of 2016, it is planned to ratify and sign a loan agreement. before yearend and in the first half of 2016 it is planned to sign and ratify the loan agreement .
in general, Kazakhstan has more than 700 joint ventures with south Korea, such as samsung c & t, lg electronics, lg chem, sk corporation, hyundai, posco, etc.
The volume of manufactured products and rendered services in the first quarter of 2015 amounted to 52.7 billion tenge, having increased by 13.1% compared to the same period of the previous year.
On behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, the liquidation of three-shift and emergency schools will be carried out by 2020, "said B. Kaparbayev.
At the same time, the volume of gross agricultural output in January-May 2015 amounted to 457.1 billion tenge and increased by 2.7% compared to January-May 2014.
According to the Minister, measures are currently being taken to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
An expanded partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Kazakhstan was tentatively signed on January 20, 2015 in Brussels, which will strengthen bilateral political, economic and strategic ties. agreement on extended partnership and cooperation between kazakhstan and the eu signed on january 20 , 2015 in brussels will significantly enhance the bilateral political , economic and strategic relationships .
20 minutes after the operation, the movement of the left side of the body is fully restored.
On July 8, the regional court announced the decision to restore parental rights.
Recall that the competition is held in accordance with Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 9, 2006 No. 194 "On the competition for the golden quality award and the republican competition-exhibition" Best Product of Kazakhstan. "
In June of this year, coordination of 21 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 360 thousand square meters was started. additionally , regular distribution of 360 apartments with total area - almost 21 thousand square meters has been started in june .
Note that this project has gained high popularity on the Internet, the number of views of the video "Oras" has reached 2 million people.
According to him, the value of movable property in the secondary market decreased by 16% in dollar equivalent, by the end of 2016 they will be reduced by 20%.
Also, according to him, Kazakhstan has currently signed a readmission agreement with 12 states.
Thus, the copper company for the production of cathode copper at the Kounrad deposit increased its capacity to 10 thousand 15 tons per year.
It should be noted that at the meeting chaired by President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev 17 documents were adopted, including cooperation in the field of security.
The Development Bank of Kazakhstan provided a loan to the Bayan Beauty confectionery factory in Kostanay to expand export supplies for a period of 5 years.
If launched, an additional 700 tons of fish products will be produced, which will create 85 jobs.
In order to improve the investment environment, increase the potential of business, the standard of living, we have adopted a plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," the President said.
this means that the rates of all import customs deposits will be at 0, 5, 12 percent of the customs value. it means that all rates of import customs duties will be installed at the level of 0 % , 5 % and 12 % of the customs value .
According to him, a market for 180 million people is being created in the Eurasian space, who should live in a transparent regime.
Among the participants of the championship are 13 masters of sports of international class, two masters of sports, 23 athletes of the first and second categories.
Thus, in accordance with the new discount system for passengers with a discount card, discounts of up to 70% are provided for grand and business class cars as a whole.
One of the major projects of the international level will be the Center for the rapprochement of cultures, which will be held in 2015 in Almaty with the support of UNESCO. in addition , a major project will be the opening of the center of the rapprochement of cultures under the auspices of unesco in almaty in 2015 .
The election program of the head of state, reflected in the program of 100 concrete steps, was aimed specifically at improving the quality of public administration.
We hope that the Horizon 2020 program and the project for 2014-2019 will increase the speed of Kazakhstan on the way to an innovative and energy-efficient future, "the minister said.
in the whole, 774 thousand km of roads are put into technical condition, markings are laid on 13 thousand km of roads and 6,500 road signs are installed.
The contribution of each Kazakhstani to ensuring Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world will be evaluated, "he said.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
As you know, measures to develop partnerships with the Mangistau region and Iranian provisions began in 2009, today these events have already ended with the exhibition of Iranian products. the partnerships between mangystau and the provinces of iran began in 2009 .
By the end of the year, it is planned to purchase 91 apartments in the Wide Steppe residential complex in 12 microdistricts.
in the part of the Western European-Western Chinese international road corridor this year will open two directions of 150 km of roads laid by cement concrete.
The Deputy Prime Minister informed about the measures taken by the government to implement five institutional reforms and the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
In addition, in 2014, the commission began to develop a eurozone customs code.	in 2014 , the commission began to work on formation of the customs code of the eaeu , which will take into account the new realities , including the transition to electronic documents , will reduce the time and number of documents required for customs clearance .	2,46
There are 108 million donations per year worldwide, 50 per cent of which come from high-income countries, where 18 per cent of the world's population lives.
It should be noted that more than 14 billion tenge was allocated for the expansion of the Karaganda TPP-3, which is the main source of heat supply to the city.
To date, the company has mastered the production of 9 tractor models, the most advanced of which is Belarus 3522.
We plan to extend the contracts to 10 years, "said the general director of Samruk-kazyna Kontrakt LLP serikbek Yelshibekov.
The national document was developed by the National Commission for Modernization as part of the implementation of the National Plan - "100 concrete steps" proposed by the head of state.
As of July 1, the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises increased by 9.7% and amounted to 45.5 thousand units.
According to him, 4 main scenarios were considered for the development of programs, in two areas: price, level of raw materials and integration.
- Protocol on amendments and additions to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of education of June 13, 2000;
In 2015, through all sources of financing, the introduction of housing with a total area of ​ ​ 7.1 million square meters is provided.
The potential of demand of neighboring countries for Kazakhstan products will be 210 billion tenge, we will be able to provide such a volume, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
To implement this norm, from July 1, 2017, the basic pension mechanism will be changed on the basis of documents in the pension affairs of existing pensioners.
the percentage of harmonization of international requirements is 73%, that is, more than 4 thousand standards currently comply with international documents.
In the regions there are 27 crisis centers "mother's house" - "mother's house" for newborn mothers.
According to the results of the analysis, over the past half year, Kazakhstan's foreign trade turnover decreased by 36.1% compared to 2014. according to the results of the analysis , for the past six months the foreign trade turnover of kazakhstan has been decreased by 36.1 % in comparison with the same period of 2014 , because sales volume and prices for our mineral resources in the world markets have been decreased .
And in 2017, we hold the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017, so we are very interested in the energy of the future.
It is noted that from March 16 to August 10 of this year, mobilization groups covered 2756 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 4349 times.
to ensure uninterrupted electricity, it is planned to additionally supply 9 substations, replace high electric networks and reinforced concrete installations.
It is worth noting that after the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1992, Korea and Kazakhstan establish contacts in the fields of economy, culture, medicine, and public administration.
According to the food belt development project, 13 projects worth 38.4 billion tenge are planned to be implemented around the capital this year.
In addition, we are considering mechanisms to support depositors, the amount of which exceeds 1 million tenge.
in January-June of this year, rice prices increased by 2.4%, barley - by 1.6%, oats - by 1.3%, rye - by 1.2%, wheat - by 1%, corn - by 0.2%, and on containers - decreased by 2%.
to date, the air base of the National Guard (military unit 3656) is located on a leased land plot in the village of Boraldai, Almaty region.
For the employment of 10,220 people, 7,780 jobs were created, which is 0.4% higher than last year. 10220 people were employed , 7780 new jobs were created , it is 0.4 % more than last year .
everything that the city needs was built until 2008, in the subsequent period the development of the capital continued with the participation of private investors. everything that was necessary for the city was built in 2008 , in a subsequent period with the participation of private investors astana continued its development .
we are talking about lending to large business entities - the financing limit for one borrower is from 200 million tenge to 5 billion tenge.
We monitored the city of Aktau, where gas is traded at 27 tenge, "said Bekkali Zhubanov, head of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Trade of Mangistau Region.
100 specific steps. "
In total, as part of the "Courage Cup" in the Center for Martial Arts, 109 sets of medals of various weights were played.
For the coming 2016, it is planned to include 45 projects related to drinking water and heating systems in the "Nұrly zhol" program.
if this is not enough, then through the HOA you can get a rate of 4% for 15 years, "said the vice minister.
Head of the Department of Agriculture b. As Murzin noted, it is planned to launch 40 projects in the amount of 7.2 billion tenge this year.
In 2015-2017, the Government of Kazakhstan plans to jointly implement 16 projects in the system of heat/water supply and sanitation.
According to the results of voting, the Kazakhstan pavilion expo 2015 is among the best and is considered the most recognizable.
three young athletes, consisting of joy (9 years), blue rain (9 years) and a noble zaik (11 years).
25% of outlets in utility markets are transferred to local producers for the sale of their own products directly to consumers without intermediaries. in public markets over 25 % of trading places were handed to local producers .
Under this program, 40% of students chose engineering, technical and medical specialties that currently work in the country.
the best in the championship: aslan zeinollai - 68 kg, darkhan amirkhan - 82 kg, vol kydyrgali - 90 kg.
In the next three years (2013-2015), we entered into legal assistance agreements with 12 countries, such as Italy, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, "he said.
According to him, the accession of Kazakhstan to growth standards contributes to the entry of our state into 30 developed countries of the world.
According to the Director General of the PSC, currently 35 services of 9 state bodies have been issued.
One of the brightest masterpieces of the musical theaters of the world - the opera performance "Aida" - will be played on October 4 on the stage of "Astana Opera."
The seminar was organized on the eve of the next 7th meeting of the Kazakh-Vietnamese intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation, which will be held on October 22-23, 2015 in Astana.
Since 2009, the National Expert Center has been the partnership institute of the World Economic Forum, annually conducting questionnaires at enterprises for the forum.
According to the regional Governor's Office, more than 600 million tenge were allocated for the improvement of the city with the support of the rehabilitation city maslikhat.
In particular, the new strategy includes the main development goals, such as a threefold increase in the cost of a casatomic company until 2025.
Last year, 216 young families received apartments under this new state program in the nur aktobe housing estate.
at the same time, means of protecting the water area from sea waves are installed in the western part at 1350 meters, in the eastern - at 540 meters.
On behalf of the head of state, a program to combat corruption until 2025 was developed at an expanded meeting of the political council.
According to the organizers of the press tour, by the end of the year in the capital it is planned to modernize heating networks for 533 million 933 thousand tenge and purchase new equipment for 154 million 832 thousand tenge.
62% of the transported patients were taken to regional and city medical organizations, 38% - to republican medical centers located in the cities of the capital and Almaty.
banks financed 45 projects in the field of construction materials production in the amount of 6.5 billion tenge, "the deputy head of the fund concluded.
According to Balic, this is a great experience for his group, since the theatrical performance was staged within 6 weeks.
Director General of irena adnan amine said that he held a meeting with Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Commissioner of EXPO-2017 rapil zhoshybayev in Abu Dhabi on October 12, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
It is worth noting that the opening of this flight took place between the aviation authorities of Kazakhstan and Korea, the meeting took place on February 26-27, 2015.
At the same time, in 2012-2014, 49 projects on water supply and sanitation were implemented, implemented as part of the Akbulak program. this was achieved due to the implementation of 49 projects on water supply and sanitation in 2012-2014 , within " akbulak " program .
Following the event, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan signed export contracts worth $27 million.
In general, participants of the exhibition with great opportunities for doing business in Kazakhstan were informed about the upcoming Eurasian forum kazenergy 2015 (September 29 - October 1) and the specialized exhibition expo-2017 in the capital.
This year it is planned to commission 150 km of roads with cement concrete pavement.
the first - rent for 49 years, the second - exemption from some tax payments in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I represent the center for supporting minors, "which appeared 5 years ago as part of the Law public fund.
There are about 6 thousand European companies in Kazakhstan, we expect Kazakhstan to join the WTO and highly appreciate the support provided by the EU during this process, "the ambassador said.
Also, according to him, in the republic there are 10 sports schools for people with disabilities, 2 schools are open in this sport.
Since the opening of residential construction bank for 401,434 million tenge, 92 thousand depositors helped solve housing problems.
Following the results of the chairmanship of Kazakhstan and Anshka, representatives of 70 states on the Kazakh model of Nazarbayev were sent to the secretariat of kha.
Head of the Department of Finance of the region. According to Sharapidenov, the budget of Pavlodar region for 2015 year (as of July 1) is 146,219,0 million tenge.
Despite the difficult problems in the world, we have an active trade turnover exceeding $1 billion a year, "said the Vice Minister at the Kazakh-Japanese business forum in the capital.
According to him, a coordinating council of non-governmental organizations has been created under the committee for the protection of children's rights, which includes 37 organizations.
As of July 14 of this year, 19 objects have been put up for auction, of which 9 objects have been sold, "the report said.
In 2011-2014, a contract for the supply of uranium was in force between the "casatomprom" uak "and nuclear power corporation of india (npcil), which was concluded in December 2014.
however, as of August 18, 2015, the balance of the deposit in the bank account should not exceed 1 million tenge.	meanwhile , as of august 18 , 2015 the deposit balance should not be more than 1 million tenge .	2,49
currently, boiler houses are 40% ready for the winter season, engineering networks are 45% ready, residential buildings are 33% ready, educational facilities are 54% ready, healthcare is 61% ready, the report says.
It is worth noting that the response to the application will be given in May 2016 at the general session of the heb in Paris.
then the teenagers went to the fire and technical center, where they were shown 500 archival photo materials, exhibits, and equipment.
This year, the employment rate of graduates who graduated is 92%, of which 100% by state order. this year , the employment of graduates is 92 % , of them on the state order - 100 % .
The most interesting thing is that the first school threshold this year costs more than 300 thousand children.
launched 5 investment projects to create export-import trade operations and logistics agreements in Khorgos Kshso.
Of course, there are major international projects, such as the Universiade and Expo, which will be held in 2017, "said B. Baibek.
17 manufacturers of mechanical engineering, chemistry, grain, pharmaceuticals, light industry held negotiations with Russian wholesale and procurement companies.
Recall that the forum of gas exporting countries was created in 2001, legal competence was provided in 2008.
The forum participants will pay special attention to issues of joint preparation for the educational year announced in the CIS in 2016.
Wishing residents and guests of the capital will also be able to take part in a 5-kilometer race on a charity event.
the most unique conditions have been created: low tax, tax on all of us 20%, income tax 10%.
603 new passenger cars "passenger transportation" will be commissioned in the fourth quarter, "said K. Sparghaliev.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, the plan consists of 28 measures and is divided into 3 packages: "creating conditions for investors," "attracting investors" and "post-investment monitoring."
The first package of locomotives was delivered in August this year, a total of 10 locomotives will be sent to Baku, "he said.
Zhazylbekov got acquainted with 19 promising innovative centers of science and engineering, "the report said.
Note that in June 2015, Tulpar-Talgo and Ktz express LLP carried out a partnership experience in the supply of wide-body cars from Spain.
in Mangistau region in the first half of the year oil production in the amount of 9.2 million tons or 100.7% compared to the same period of 2014. during the first half of the year , mangistau region produced 9.2 million tons of oil , or 100.7 % of the same period in 2014 .
a network of 86 preschool institutions, including 50 state, 1 school-kindergarten, 25 mini-centers of general education schools, 8 private mini-centers, 2 private kindergartens.
Since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, it has been amended and amended three times: in 1998, 2007 and 2011.
To date, in Zhambyl, Kyzylorda, South Kazakhstan regions 6 plantations have been identified in 11 plots with a total area of ​ ​ 0.3 hectares. today 's , in zhambyl , kyzylorda and south kazakhstan regions 6 plantations on 11 fields with a total area of 0.3 hectares have been found .
apartments in 4 categories of amenities are being built in this direction, in the capital and the city of Almaty the cost per square meter is 120 thousand tenge, in other regions - 90 thousand tenge, "he said.
By this order, the composition of the council of rectors and the council of rectors was approved, which included the rectors of 39 higher educational institutions of the country.
The Institute of Deputy Commanders for Educational and Socio-Legal Work was established in the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan 22 years ago.
the highest indicator of specialists who successfully passed the qualification exam is in Kostanay (98%), West Kazakhstan (96%), North Kazakhstan (91%) and Almaty (91%) regions, the report said.
This year, a school with 1200 seats and a kindergarten with 320 seats will be opened.
As President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, if we want to become one of the 30 developed countries, we should reach the level of standards of the organization of economic cooperation and development, "the head of state said.
The growth of the currency corridor to the upper limit is only 10 tenge, which is 5%.
It is worth noting that in 2015 the North Kazakhstan region will introduce 124.5 thousand square meters of housing.
Recall that the head of state proposed to celebrate a memorable date in 2014, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As part of the implementation of the comprehensive plan for three years, 35 billion tenge was spent on the construction of social facilities, roads, this year 3.7 billion tenge is provided.
for example, annually the national operator introduces gas into the homes of more than 35 thousand subscribers throughout the republic.
The construction of the dry port began in June last year, today its operator processed the first 30 containers "ktze-khorgos gateway," that is, exceeded and issued customs.
In the second direction, 256 microcredits were issued, 224 people were trained on the basics of entrepreneurship.
According to the UN, in the next 30 years it is necessary to double food production due to the demographic decline. according to the information from the un , the population explosion in the next 30 years will require to double food production .
today they perform two functions - accepting documents for the appointment of social assistance, assigning state benefits to families with children under 18 years of age.
150 volunteers from our country who are fluent in Italian and English will work at the expo.
One of the main tasks of the second five-year plan is to bring the production of refined gold to 30 tons per year and the development of the jewelry industry.
In 2017, we will host the universiade, now we need to build 4 facilities, two are under construction, in 2016 it will be completed, they are 70% ready. in 2017 we will host the universiade , now we need to build 4 objects , two under construction and will be completed in 2016 , they are ready by 70 % .
In 2016-2018, it is planned to allocate 4 thousand places on the basis of state educational orders and the requirements of the technical and vocational education industry. in 2016-2018 it is planned to allocate state educational order in technical and vocational education in the amount of 4 thousand places with the needs of industry .
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that Kazakhstan joined the coalition of counter-terrorism states fourteen years ago, after the tragedy of September 11.
117 projects at the regional level, a month is left until the end of the year, all issues need to be resolved urgently, "the minister said.
In addition, Kazakhstan has made a voluntary commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15% until 2020, to 25% - until 2050, "said Alexander, coordinator for energy efficiency of UN projects and the Government of Kazakhstan.
The program provides for the support of the Government of Kazakhstan in the implementation of the proposals and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
mechanical engineering is widespread in all regions of Kazakhstan and over the past 10 years covers steady growth, "he said.
In addition, the State Development Bank of China will allocate $120 million for the development of green energy in Almaty region, and the Development Bank of Kazakhstan - $35 million.
Based on the iidmb-2 program, 20 students from 10 colleges were selected.
To date, 30 such programs have been approved, including the full implementation of programs on roads and lubricants.
At the same time, additional funds in the amount of 400 million tenge are needed for the construction of railway routes.
According to the results of the auction, 45 bulls of the Aberdeen-Angus breed and 180 chestnuts were sold for further raising breeding cattle.
today in the areas of water supply and sanitation with 150 thousand cubic meters. m up to 500 thousand cubic meters. l.
In 2015, we launched three machine tools, through which we will be able to produce thread from polypropylene and other materials. we have launched three machines of the last model in 2015 , thanks to these machines we can produce yarn , not only of polypropylene but also of viscose .
It should be noted that in April 2015 a round table was held on the topic "Open data for the private sector" together with the American company "center for open data enterprise" JSC "National Information Technologies."
In turn, the Minister of Agriculture a. Mamytbekov noted that now Kazakhstan has 10 educational centers and 24 scientific institutes.
The 59 steps of the National Plan set the task of attracting strategic investors in the field of energy conservation through recognized international energy service agreements.
In particular, in accordance with the program, 26 "anchor" investment projects worth 1.1 trillion tenge are provided with the creation of about 48 thousand permanent jobs.
Recall that the national competition "Mereili Recesses" has been held since 2014 in the regions of the country.
6 out of 10 selected colleges received a modernization grant from the World Bank. 6 colleges of 10 selected are grantees according to the modernization project of vet , implemented by the world bank 's loan .
According to S. Meirbekov, construction work will begin in January, and this will be the fifth hydroelectric power station with a capacity of 35 MW.
Last year, 50 projects of SMEs in manufacturing and services were approved for a total amount of 50 million tenge - from 80 750 billion tenge and 425 billion tenge allocated to the fund in March.
The capital struck me with its beauty, it is amazing that the city was built in 17 years. i was impressed by astana , surprisingly , such a beautiful city was built in a short period of time in 17 years .
the number of employees in them amounted to 41,646 people, an increase compared to the same period in 2014 amounted to 0.2%.
The business meetings were attended by 35 Kazakh and Vietnamese parties representing the oil and gas, chemical, telecommunications, construction, transport and logistics industries, engineering, tourism.
It is worth noting that at European choral games, 100 choral groups from 35 countries compete in 10 nominations.
In addition, an international forum dedicated to the Constitution Day of Kazakhstan has been held in the country for 10 years, "I.Rogov said.
And another 250 million tenge will be allocated for new entrepreneurs in the capital, "I. kairbekov said.
As a result of the efforts, the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050 and the economic program "Nұr zhol" were implemented, the goal of which is to enter the 30 developed countries of the world, "the minister said.
at the first stage, a new terminal with an area of ​ ​ up to 18 thousand square meters with a capacity of 600 passengers per hour will be built.
Fifthly, as the head of state noted, over 4 years, Kazkosmos scientific organizations conducted 37 research studies and won 5 patents.
100% of the funds are provided from the budget for the purchase of textbooks and educational complexes for all regions and cities of the region, with the exception of the city of Karaganda.
The rate of contribution paid by the State for special categories of citizens (socially vulnerable groups) is 7 per cent of the average monthly wage.
in addition, last year, 21 military personnel of the institute took part in the World Cadet Games in Ecuador as part of the Kazakh team.
of these, in 2015 it is planned to begin the design of 4 objects of the 5th stage of the reconstruction of the river industry, including the water control dam project.
The "second life" in the village of aksu was presented to the museum of "military and labor glory," created in April 1977 at secondary school No. 1.
Recall, on September 11 of this year, the republican historical and cultural expedition of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "Country of the Great Steppe" started.
In Kordai, the construction of a 21 MW wind farm is underway - in September this year.
- Protocol on the exchange of instruments of ratification under the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the PRC on the transfer of convicted persons of February 22, 2011;
As you know, for 2 years, active work has been carried out on the development of a new civil procedure code. as you know , for the past 2 years , the changes to the civil procedure code were discussed .
Thus, on the Chinese side, the project will be implemented by hualu and the state development bank of China will allocate $100 million for the launch of production.
the growth in the number of cars is ahead of the increase in the population, now 252 cars are accounted for per 1000 people, "he said.
Over the 13 years of the rating, Kazakhstan has repeatedly become the leader in the number of reforms.
the number of authorized routes increased by 12 times, including by 130% the number of flights to China.
30 leading cardiac surgery specialists from Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Holland and Croatia came to study the experience of Kazakh colleagues.
if State bodies strictly comply with the law, our society will indeed be among the 30 developed States of the world.
603 cars of the joint-stock company "Passenger Transportation" are planned to be put into production in the fourth quarter of this year.
85 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget in 2015.
According to the agreement, the national nuclear company of Kazakhstan plans to supply 4,500 tons of natural uranium concentrate to edf in the period from 2021 to 2025.
For more than 18 years he worked at the National Bank, for seven years he was deputy chairman.
and consolidated turnover amounted to 22 billion 872 million tons-kilometers, which is 5% more than planned indicators and 3% more than the same indicator for the first half of 2014.
At the same time, the weighted average interest rate on placed interbank deposits in tenge in May 2015 amounted to 8.59%, "the statement said.
Currently, different rates of customs rates from 0 to 80 percent are established in single customs tariffs (ct). currently , the common customs tariff ( cct ) set different rates of customs duties ranging from 0 % to a maximum 80 % .
As you know, high oil prices in 2008 gave impetus to the development of Kazakhstan's economy. as you know , high prices for oil and metals since 2008 have greatly contributed to the growth of the economy of kazakhstan , first of all , profitable exports due to high activity in the mining industry and metallurgy .
Under these conditions, we have developed five institutional reforms and a plan of "100 concrete steps" for the modernization of the country, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
On July 28, 2015, the project "Repair of the light-signal installation and the runway of the city of Petropavlovsk-1" began.
Over the next five years, the burden on air tickets in Kazakhstan will increase to 7% per year. over the next five years it is expected to increase the air passenger traffic up to 7 % annually .
The plan of the nation "100 steps, issues of legislative activity were discussed during a meeting with greenhouse workers of Ekoginfut LLP in the Karaspan rural district.
increase in reserves of the main types of solid minerals: gold - 418 tons; copper - 5.2 million tons.
34 memoranda totaling $1.9 billion will be signed today, "the Governor concluded.
In the labor unit of the green country, 300 young people currently work in the region, it is planned to increase this figure to 1000 people in the seasonal period.
A. Volkov congratulated the guests from Germany on the day of German unity, which took place on October 3.
Mr. Myrkhalykov noted that the 100 best universities in the world became the South Kazakhstan University.
that is, we have 78% of school graduates in Kazakh, 78% - grants.
The Kazakh diplomat told the interlocutor about the reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan on the basis of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
According to the director of the State Historical and Cultural Museum-Reserve "Hazret Sultan" maulen sadykbekov, 163 exhibits dedicated to the Kazakh Khanate were exhibited in the museum.
Special attention will also be paid to the development of the industry within the framework of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
the total area of ​ ​ pasture land is 24.5 thousand hectares, arable land - more than 11 thousand hectares, irrigated land 1.5 hectares.
It should be noted that compared to the results of last year's rating, Kazakhstan rose by 8 positions and took 42nd place in the ranking among 140 countries.
participants of this convention are 26 states of the American continent: Aksh, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Bolivia, Venezuela, Colombia, Argentina, Chile, Jamaica.
In the first half of the year, the juvenile courts received 697 criminal cases, which is 50.2% lower than in the first half of 2014. in the first half of the year the juvenile courts have received 697 criminal cases , which is 50.2 % less than in the first half of 2014 .
Note that the Soyuz Tma-18m spacecraft will be launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome on September 2015 at 10 hours 34 minutes in time of the capital.
According to him, the number of permanent donors from all donations was 10% - these are people who regularly donate blood 3-5 times a year.
From July 1, 2017, a new procedure for assigning a basic pension is introduced, which is appointed only when citizens reach retirement age.
more than 180 enterprises and business representatives of Russia, Kazakhstan, Poland.
It should be noted that the safety of deposits up to 10 million tenge is guaranteed by Kazakhstan deposit guarantee fund.
7 objects worth 484.6 million tenge will be built in outpatient clinics, for which 131 workplaces will be created.
Since the beginning of the year, 392 people with disabilities have applied to the employment authorities, including 204 villagers. the employment bodies got 392 applications from people with disabilities , including 204 people from rural districts .
In 2015, it is planned to continue work on the border of Tashkent-Shymkent-Zhambyl region, a detour of the Taraz city and on diamond-Kurgan sections.
It is planned that on June 3 the head of state will hold a number of meetings with the participants of the 28th meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan.
Also, 21.4 billion tenge was allocated for the development of engineering infrastructure over the past two years for the implementation of 123 projects, 19.4 billion tenge for the improvement of single-industry towns.
In general, in 2015, the Department of Education allocated 583 million 109 thousand tenge for the purchase of textbooks and educational and methodological complexes, which is 149 million 609 thousand tenge more than in 2014.
In Q2 2015 sareco bk LLP produced 1.4 tons of collective concentrate of rare metals.
As noted in the report, the world currently controls the implementation of 200 national projects with a total budget of 500 billion pounds.
compared to the previous ten-month period (March-December 2014), trading volume increased by 5.3 times (5.1 in dollar terms).
The main task of the head of state is to reduce the energy intensity of gross domestic product by 10% until 2015 and by 25% by 2020.
In Kyzylorda region, 533 kopecks of Karasor vegetation weighing 750 kg were destroyed during two operations conducted in the Shielist and island regions.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of taking part in the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions during the visit to the capital in 2012.
For 19 years, we have been negotiating Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, which means that our experts have been very responsible in the matter. for 19 years we have negotiated on accession to the wto , it says that our experts carefully studied this issue .
Since 2011, a fire service with visiting equipment and round-the-clock duty has been created on the oil base of Helios LLP.
According to preliminary estimates, the implementation of the procurement management project will save by 2019 1.4-2.1 billion dollars.
766.1 thousand square meters of housing were introduced in the construction sector, which is 2.4% more compared to the same period in 2014.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, 5 projects were subsidized by the Development Enterprise Development Fund this year.
I also want to note an improvement in litigation indicators "- plus 14 categories.
It is worth noting that since 2015, 414 places have been opened in preschool institutions in the North Kazakhstan region.
the common gas market and the common oil and oil products market will be developed on January 1, 2025.
According to the head of the committee, in the first half of 2015 the production of transport of the mining industry amounted to 16 billion tenge.
To this end, the Nұrly zhol program has been developed, under which $14 billion will be allocated for the development of logistics infrastructure in the next three years.
46 projects worth 23.99 billion tenge, one-time storage capacity of 880.8 thousand tons were approved.
On August 30 of this year, the Gulmira Makhambetova, Amanjol sagyns, Zhansaya Berdeshov, Marzhan Zholdasbaev, Nurbek Azanula, Serik Toreev, Aizhan Turebaev took part.
a great contribution to our country's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world. as the most developed countries are focused on revenue transparency , kazakhstan 's accession to the eiti is invaluable for joining the top 30 developed countries .
also work a song circle, dombra "," a circle of young poets "," a circle "," a kobyz circle "," a total of 63 art historians are involved in the circle.
according to this map, 18 preschool institutions were built on the basis of public-private partnership, 324 were built through private investment. according to this program , 18 kindergartens based on public-private partnership will be put into operation and 324 kindergartens on private investment .
It is worth noting that since the beginning of the year, using the activities of entrepreneurship support centers, 94 citizens have been registered as business entities and opened their own business.
the productivity of the new class, which is rapidly differing in light, is also expressed by 15 centners more than the standard.
Currently, 308 km of roads have been overhauled, of which 83 km will be commissioned this year.
It is worth noting that 16 teams will take part in the group stage of the spring-autumn 2015 championship (Astana - 3 teams, Almaty - 6, Shymkent - 5, Karaganda - 2).
In addition, since the launch of the plant, 323 cars have been produced, which are currently located in Kazakhstan, "he said.
The number of participants in the job fair is 152 people sent to work - 82 people.
It is worth noting that representatives of the club have been supporting young entrepreneurs for 2 years in a row.
in terms of the indicators of customs duties (73; + 28), the effectiveness of antimonopoly policy (68; + 26), the costs of customs procedures (55; + 22) and the quality of the supplier of products in the domestic market (88; + 20), an improvement of more than 20 positions was achieved.
this will reduce system wear from 67% to 65%, and in 2015 will improve the quality and viability of work. this will reduce the wear on chains from 67 to 65 % in 2015 and significantly increase the reliability and quality of services for people living in more than 2,5 thousand houses , " he has continued .
In 1991, we declared our independence, and from the first days Kazakhstan strives to establish close and trusting relations with India. in 1991 , we declared independence , from the first day kazakhstan is seeking to build a close and trusting relationship with india .
170 projects have been launched with these significant funds, of which 66 projects are being implemented as part of the Nұr zhol state program, Dossaev said.
The International Ambulance Competition is held in Lithuania annually for 9 years.
at the recent Ufa summit, the heads of member states approved a strategy for the development of shu until 2025. in the course of the recent summit in ufa , the body approved the sco 's development strategy to 2025 .
Kazakhstan has 180 million hectares of nutritional centers, which border two countries, are one of the importers of meat.
65% of the transported patients were taken to regional and city medical organizations, 25% - to republican medical centers located in the cities of the capital and Almaty.
Also the press service of the president plans to start on July 3 the updated version of the official site of akorda.kz of the head of state.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, this is a unique platform that unites 11 countries of the post-Soviet space, there are no similar sites in the region.
Of the cases examined, 641 sentences or 5 per cent were handed down under the new criminal procedure legislation.
nominal cash incomes of the population in real terms increased by 2.9% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014.
Recall that in January 2015, Eidu signed the State Program for Cooperation with Kazakhstan for 2015-2016.
According to the results of last year, the volume of mutual trade exceeded 53 billion US dollars and amounted to 53 percent of the country's foreign trade turnover.
According to him, since 2003, an anti-terrorism center has been operating, where the functions of all special forces are coordinated.
The conference will be attended by 100 best startups in Eurasia, 150 investors, subsidiaries, 20 world-renowned experts, as well as 30 regional and international it-companies.
He said that in 2016 the construction of the Aktobe-Atyrau courier road, which can reach Astrakhan, will begin.
According to the chief cardiologist of the country, this year Kazakhstan carried out an operation using this method, 150 operations were carried out.
As reported, the XII forum of interregional cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan will be held in Sochi on September 16, 2015, in which the presidents of the two countries Vladimir Putin and Nursultan Nazarbayev will take part.
at a briefing for representatives of gardens, the head of state noted that the construction of the capital was actually carried out in 10 years.
Earlier, 20 memoranda worth 42 billion tenge were concluded in the region between the Governor's Office of the region and national companies, large environmental users and production companies.
Turkey joined the WTO in 1995, after which the country increased exports and significantly increased the level of competition.
The agreement, signed on October 18, 2011 in St. Petersburg, is aimed at further developing cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking in the CIS countries.
The Olympics will be held from July 26 to August 2, 2015 on the basis of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi in Almaty
In total, 70 kilometers of heat supply, 155 km of water supply and sanitation networks, 1475 km of power supply networks were updated.
Over the 10 years of its existence, the kazenergy association has established its position as a leading industry association.
The Pacific-Asian Championship is the qualifying match for the 2016 World Cup between the Swiss (men) and Canadians (women).
The duty rate was reduced from 5% to 0% of the customs value of products until December 31, 2016. the rate is reduced from 5 % to 0 % of the customs value of up to 31 december 2016 .
the project provides for the construction of a granary with a bunker for 10 thousand tons of products each on the site.
Currently, 446 pupils are studying here, including children from large and incomplete families, pupils of orphanages.
scholars of school work "Bolashak" in the first 6 months offer a new format for teaching English "6 + 6," which will be studied in Kazakhstan, the remaining 6 months - abroad.
About 5 million children live in Kazakhstan, of which 2.5 million are schoolchildren, about 2 million are preschool children, more than 300 thousand are students. kazakhstan is home to about 5 million children , 2.5 million children of them are school children , about 2 million - pre-school children , over 300 thousand - young students .
In 2013, the head of state approved the concept of personnel policy of law enforcement agencies, the document was developed by the Prosecutor General's Office. in 2013 , the head of state approved the concept of law enforcement personnel policy , which acted as the main developer of the prosecutor general 's office .
subsidization under loan agreements is carried out with equal remuneration of 14% per annum and an annual premium in foreign currency of more than 10%.
140 thousand tons of poultry meat are transported to Kazakhstan annually, about 30-40 thousand tons from Russia and Belarus.
It is noted that coins are made of gold and silver of "proof" quality with a nominal value of 500 tenge and a mixture of neisilber with a nominal value of 50 tenge.
According to the regional department of agriculture, the volume of agricultural output increased by 3% and amounted to 27.9 billion tenge.
In the future, we plan to increase the volume of these cargo from China to Europe to 500 thousand containers, "the head of state said.
In 2015, another 5 students of leading universities in the nuclear industry will study under the kazatomprom grant.
The topic of the meeting is devoted to the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing 5 institutional reforms announced by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Forum of Cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia has been held on the initiative of the heads of state since 2003. the forum was first held in 2003 at the initiative of two heads of the states .
On January 14 of this year, a two-stage open tender for the choice of the concessionaire was announced according to the project of the Big Bypass Road of Almaty.
The sun trip project was launched in 2013 as an environmental initiative aimed at promoting environmental modes of transport.	the project sun trip appeared in 2013 as an initiative aimed at promoting ecological forms of transport .	2,58
In addition, in the second half of 2015, in the fall, we intend to move to a national campaign aimed at preventing violence against children.
In addition, the Head of the Defense Ministry of Kazakhstan touched upon the theme of the upcoming international exhibition of weapons, military equipment and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2016" in the capital.
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.	according to the republican property , in the sale schedule for 2014-2015 , 34 objects were subject to the privatization .	2,58
More than a thousand Kazakhstani women participate in state business support programs, "said the President of the Association of Business Women.
According to the results of a survey conducted by entrepreneurs in the field of production, 2/3 some experts put information barriers in the first place, "said V. Maltsev.
for these purposes, the Government of Kazakhstan allocated 35 billion tenge this year to support Kazakhstani exporters in the manufacturing industry.
During this time, 74% of attracted direct investments or $17.6 billion were in the manufacturing industry.
In total, 115 projects worth 868 billion tenge are being implemented in Yuko as part of the industrialization map.
35 apartments were coordinated among young families, large families, employees of budgetary institutions, the military and other categories of citizens.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency Improvement" was adopted, 22 regulatory legal acts were approved, the program "Energy Saving - 2020" was adopted.
the governing board of the development centre consists of 43 countries, of which 25 are member countries and 18 are developing countries.
To realize these goals, 7 thousand km of national roads worth 2.4 trillion tenge were reconstructed. it is required to reconstruct more than 7 thousand km of roads totaling 2.4 trillion tenge .
our deputy faction consists of 21 people, which includes representatives of all factions, "said the deputy of the majilis of the Yegor Kappel parliament.
with the support of the akimat of the district on the street. "Meirambek" allocated 500 hectares of camels.
over the past years, more than 1380 microcredits worth 3,644,5 million tenge have been issued, the most provided in Stepnogorsk (173), Aksu (130), Ekibastuz (112) and Kentau (126) cities.
It is noted that in relation to the employment of prisoners, this figure over the past 10 years has not exceeded 50%.
on republican property - 11 objects, on communal property - 100, on accs - 59, on holdings - 47 objects.
It was also decided to implement the norms on tariffs for more than a thousand commodity items within the framework of the norms of the union, which should be completed in national parliaments by December 15, he added.
In general, more than 3 billion tenge was allocated by local executive bodies for summer recreational activities. " imangaliyev.
It is noted that the main task of the Kazalans association is to help Kazakhstan become one of the 30 most competitive and developed states in the world.
Currently, we are conducting 150 projects with the participation of foreign investments from the UK, France, Germany, Japan, Turkey, China.
From 2010 to the first half of this year, BKP participants paid 343 billion tenge in taxes, - said D.Bayrov.
80% of university graduates work in areas that do not require diplomas, "said H. Lauder.
For these projects, 23 people were employed, and with the full launch of the projects, 29 people were additionally employed.
To further optimize Kazakhstan's investment policy, 12 areas prevail in the review, "said the Vice Minister.
Recall, on January 14, 2015, an open competition was announced, consisting of two stages to determine the concessionaire.
It should be noted that over the past two years, the amount of funds allocated from the local budget to strengthen the material and technical base of the Department of Internal Affairs has grown 6 times.
One of the main conditions of registration by the participant of the region is investment of at least 10 million tenge per 1 hectare.
Also, the Atbasar Magyar Abdrakhmanov won a gold medal in the weight category 71 kg.
For the development of services and trade in the main branches of the city, the akimat, together with the Development Fund, adopted the Silk Road city program for a total of 4 billion tenge.
30 days after the approval of the protocol, Kazakhstan will officially become the 162nd member of the WTO, "he said.
As follows from the message, this project was launched in 2012 as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
It should be noted that 90% of construction materials used for road construction are domestic products, "he said.
In addition, to date, 30.4 thousand people receive State special benefits under lists No. 1 and No. 2 in the republic.
For 6 months of this year, more than 5 thousand citizens who violated the conditions of stay in the country were brought to justice.
Since the beginning of 2011, the volume of Iranian cement introduced into Kazakhstan has grown 6 times and in 2014 amounted to 241,150 tons.
The company has been operating since 2008, four years later we built a new plant with modern equipment. the company works since 2008 , four years later we built a new factory with modern equipment .
According to him, "i-azamat" starts on August 1, today everyone can write an e-mail about the difficulties facing the state.
In total, 103 gifted students of the region, as well as school leaders and teachers, whose students became winners, took part in the meeting.
Note that to date, 249 applications from residents of the village have been accepted for gas supply to houses.
agricultural producers "narnur" and "gases" received 162 heads of cattle in the direction of meat products.
A visa-free regime has also been established for investors from 10 countries, including Italy.
As a result, 25 agreements on the creation of joint industrial facilities have been signed to date, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the first stage - ekibastuz - of families - with the growth of 500 kilovolt construction lines, which provides for the construction of 500 kilovolts in Semey, "said E. Shinasilov.
From January 1, 2016, the pensions of employees of all potential structures will be transferred to full state support.
He noted that the number of state day general education schools in the region is 131.
In the next 4 years, the Nұr zhol program will be increased by 16%.
Healthcare expenditures in 2015 amounted to 18 billion tenge, which is 9.8% more than in 2014, "he said. Ilmukhanbetova.
According to him, Almaty is the largest market for consumers of food products in Kazakhstan (about 3 billion dollars a year).
in addition, compared to 2011, the share of the population with incomes below the subsistence minimum decreased in 25 single-industry towns.
As part of concessional lending to small and medium-sized businesses in 2014-2015, 300 million tenge was allocated from the National Fund.
Currently, 23 schools are being built in the region, of which 18 are planned to open this year.
The country's budget revenues decreased by 40% due to lower energy prices. due to the decline in energy prices budget revenues have been decreased by 40 % .
As a result of the last elections on June 12, 2011, the Justice and Development Party received a majority of votes from parliament.
The UK produces 19% of energy from renewable sources, and Costa Rica has brought this figure to 90%. the uk uses 19 % energy renewable sources , while costa rica has brought this figure to 90 % .
The ictm World Conference has been held every two years since 1947.
By a decision of the Council of Heads of CIS Member States of January 25, 2000, it was granted the status of an interstate body of the CIS.
Applications for participation in the competition are accepted until September 20 in all regional service centers for entrepreneurs of Baiterek Holding.
The National Bank plans to pay compensation for 250 million 1 thousand deposits totaling 700 billion tenge, "- said a.terentyev.
3, 2, 1 start! The goal of the program is to instill a healthy culture of life for schoolchildren.
On the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan, 100% coverage of children in preschool education will be carried out until 2020, "he said.
The agreement was signed on October 23, 2014 in Astana during the 5th meeting of the joint commission of government and private sectors of Kazakhstan and Japan on economic cooperation.
The history of constitutionalism is deeply connected with the Kazakh khanate, founded in 1465.
then these results will amount to 2/3 of the rating of 114 indicators, "A. Aitzhanova explained.
The real volume of products in the manufacturing industry grew by 4.9% compared to the level of January-August 2014 and in current prices amounted to 126 billion tenge.
and for registration and re-registration of commercial persons - 7227, as well as for registration and re-registration of non-commercial persons - 272.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of expanding cooperation with cisco systems, this is a large company with more than 70 thousand employees.
In general, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted positive changes in the field of agriculture of the country over 20 years.
As the head of the fund noted, in 2014 a branch of the company opened in the capital of Akmola region.
a nation plan of 100 concrete steps. "
So, the detachment of kji secondary school No. 1 of the Atbasar district became the winner of the 15th regional competition.
1 once every 5 years, 1 once every 10 years.
To date, the total value of DBK funded projects has amounted to 16% of the volume of investments in the industrialization map.
From October 25, an agreement on investment, visa regime and the introduction of foreign labor will enter into force.
when starting the workshop, it is planned to increase the milk processing capacity to 6820 tons per year and increase the variety of products.
H. Arimura invited the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan to take part in the panel session dedicated to women's leadership of the Astana Economic Forum in 2016.
dollar, euro, yen and other currencies can vary from each other by 5 tenge.
it is worth noting that the competition "Slavic Market" has been held annually since 1992.
In 2015, in the Arshalynsky district, as part of this program, 5 households received loans and 2 households received loans.
peugeot 301 brand became very popular and entered the top three cars with high sales of Kazakhstani cars.
the implementation of these projects will create more than 23 thousand temporary jobs and more than 4.4 thousand permanent works. these projects will create about 23 thousand temporary jobs and more than than 4.5 thousand permanent jobs.
Another source of service use is the egov application, which provided 51 services in 2014 and added 22 in 2015.
According to Aslan Sarinzhipov, on November 3-4, 2015, within the framework of the visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the UK, it is planned to sign this memorandum.
It should be noted that 130 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the refinancing program, which will cover 25 thousand problem debtors.
At the same time, the rate will grow in 2017 by 4%, from 2018 - by 5%, from 2023 - by 6%, from 2024 - by 7%.
this honorary rank was received by the sergeant of the platoon - the head of the communications battalion of the military unit 54380 senior sergeant of the Gaziz Seisembek.
In the first half of 2015, industrial enterprises of the region produced goods and services worth 613.9 billion tenge.
more than 700 representatives of domestic and foreign gardens were accredited for a report on festive events.
As the speaker emphasized, in six weeks the meeting considered and approved 55 bills.
Within their framework, 8 business agreements on cooperation between enterprises of the two regions were signed for a total of 468 billion tenge.
B.Amireev also told the Prime Minister of the Cameroonian Republic about the upcoming Expo 2017 in 2017.
the total cost of the project is 24.7 billion tenge, more than 30% of the necessary funds will be provided by the development bank, the loan term - up to 10 years.
Allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan 35 billion tenge were received by 10 companies that will export manufactured products in the future.
In 2014, the opening of the center was timed to coincide with the Latin American tour of the Kazakh academic and symphony orchestra.
From 2015 to 2017, 33 projects totaling 36.5 billion tenge are planned to be implemented in the basic tourist areas of the region.
The Commission of the All-Russian Stabilization Fund decided to purchase 6220 tons of products from 2014 to 2015.
Recall, amitech astana LLC is a domestic company for the production of fiberglass pipes with 10 years of experience.
It is planned that in December 2015, during the WTO ministerial conference, Kazakhstan will be officially declared a member of the council.
158 participants from 9 countries arrived in this camp - Turkey, Greece, Poland, Latvia, Bulgaria, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Finland, Kazakhstan.
During the period from March 16 to July 27 of this year, mobilization groups made 3866 trips and covered 2061 remote settlements.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan Bauyrzhan Mukhametzhanov in his speech noted that 21 years ago, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev raised the initiative on Eurasian integration.
this year, 51 applications were submitted for participation in the national contest "Jubilee Family" in the capital, last year there were 44 applications.
Governor of the region also visited a cement plant with a capacity of 500 tons per year.
In our region this year, the project "Do Agro" LCD worth 10 million tenge was financed with the support of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs through the Regional Investment Center Kyzylorda LLP.
the total natural growth rate was 14.62 (14.75) people per 1000 people, "the report said.
To date, 10.2 billion tenge has been allocated to the education sector of the city, which is 7% more than in the same period (9.5 billion tenge).
Also at the job fair, consultations were given on the social program "Employment Roadmap - 2020."
The main activity of the center is the development of the concept of transition to a "green economy," approved by a decree of the President of Kazakhstan in 2013.
According to the Governor, the current repair will be carried out at 19 educational facilities, 12.7 million tenge was allocated from the district budget for these purposes.
At expo milano 2015, the Commissioner General of the Section of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented the EXPO 2017 program to representatives of Caribbean countries.
In order to promote competition among schools, we provide funding in 63 pilot schools and cities of Karaganda, Turkestan.
Currently, 5 applications have been received from business facilities in the amount of 31.5 billion tenge, including the orders of limited liability partnerships "Lancer Company," "Special Equipment," "Mr Oil Gas Energy Ltd."
samruk-kazyna between white and "kazmunaigaz" uk "ak," kashan "b.v." An agreement was reached on the acquisition of 50% of the shares.
According to the results of 2014, the gross regional product exceeded 8 trillion tenge, which is 20% of the country's GDP.
It is worth noting that Japan is one of the 20 priority countries that will be involved in EXPO-2017, "N. Nazarbayev said.
Today, Kazallans unites Kazakhstanis abroad, who work in 27 countries, where 38 thousand people met under one shanyrak.
invited guests were presented with videos about Kazakhstan "the amazing country kazakhstan," "welcome to kazakhstan - heart of eurasia," "astana, expo-2017," "baiga," "bolashak," albums and books about Kazakhstan.
In turn, the local police service will begin its activities on January 1, 2016, "said i.lepekh.
According to the minister, the inflation rate can be 6-8% in 2016-2017, 5-7% in 2018, 4-6% in 2019.
325 graduates and 400 people were sent for retraining to undergo youth practice.
He noted the dynamically developing bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Singapore and the introduction of a visa-free regime with Singapore from July 16, 2015 and called on Singaporean investors to establish cooperation.
The pilot project began its work in Almaty, to date, 20 business entities have received assistance in the amount of 1 billion. Tenge.
I believe that in this way we will come to the successful implementation of the nation's plan - "100 concrete steps," said HP
Since the beginning of 2015, 40 enterprises received state support, of which 37 were subsidized, and 3 were guaranteed.
Of the 300 companies participating in the competition, 50-60 of the best enterprises were selected, the names of which became known in May.	about 300 million people from around the world will see kazakhstan goods .	2,65
for this purpose, the President of Kazakhstan proposed to develop a plan for a global strategic initiative - 2045 for the centenary of the United Nations.	to this end , the president of kazakhstan proposed to develop a plan of global strategic initiative - 2045 to the centennial of the united nations .	2,65
In addition, one of the innovations will be a new brix development bank with capital of $100 billion.	also one of the important topics will be the functioning of the new brics development bank with a capital of 100 billion dollars .	2,65
He also noted that today 49 countries and 11 international organizations are participating in EXPO-2017, which is of special interest at the world level.	he also stressed that as of today , 49 countries and 11 international organizations have confirmed participation .	2,65
Spanish companies were presented with a new economic policy, a plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
In addition, the head of the department noted that this year 302 billion tenge was allocated for the development of roads, that is, for the maintenance of more than 2 thousand km of roads, and significant funds will be used in a timely manner.
The fourth day of comprehensive testing was held at 20 checkpoints (basic university).
I will give you a diploma for the fact that Kazakhstan joined the agenda of the 2020 Olympics and developed Olympic values, "said Thomas bach.
assets of the holding increased by more than 300 billion tenge and amounted to 2.6 trillion tenge compared to last year.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev has developed life programs, including 5 institutional reforms, but the ideological basis of which is an eternal country uniting the nation. "
The honor of Akmola region was represented by 3 athletes, two of them won bronze medals.
thanks to the guarantees of the Development Fund for this project in the amount of 51 million tenge, we received a loan and acquired the necessary equipment.
the capacity of existing sowing equipment will allow sowing 1 million hectares of grain crops per day.
It is worth noting that a scientific conference dedicated to the creation of the Kazakh Khanate will be held in Astana on September 11, 2015.
In general, from 2005 to 2014, the inflow of foreign direct investment from Japan to Kazakhstan amounted to $4.5 billion.
Since the beginning of the year, 85 medals have been received in this sport, including 17 gold, 28 silver and 40 bronze.
in the Sandyktau region - 99.7%, Tselinograd - 99%, Shortandinsky - 97%, Atbasar - 95.9%, Egindykol - 94.9% and Stepnogorsk - 95.5%.
Continues to create conditions for the development of 19 priority sectors of industrial cooperation among ECE member States.
the capacity of the enterprise is 6,000 broilers per hour, that is, 12-33 birds per day.
Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Physics and Mathematics was opened in Astana in 2009.
In addition, in December 2014, the post office began to notify customers of the achievement of parcels through SMS messages.
the airline has been flying from Alma-Ata to Moscow for 12 years, flights from Almaty to Tbilisi have been operating for 4 years in a row, "he said.
approved 21 commissioners of the national section who are involved in signing the necessary agreements, "he said.
condensate produces design capacity in the white oil refining complex: ai-92 - 114,000 tons per year, ai-95 - 86,000 tons of fuel.
The culsary family from the Karakiyan district of the Mangistau region became the laureate of the national contest "Jubilee Family" in 2015.
at the second stage, the terminal will expand by another 16 thousand square meters, as a result of which 1200 passengers per hour will be served.
100 concrete steps - one of the priorities of the national plan is the creation of a professional and autonomous state apparatus. one of the priorities for the national plan - " 100 concrete steps " is to create a professional and independent state apparatus .
In the award ceremony, the winner of the contest "Mereili Rects" was named a family of potassium from the dynasty of Alakol span and Panfilov district, the head of the region presented each family with cash prizes and diplomas in the amount of 1 million tenge.
According to him, the requirements of the first constitution, adopted in 1993, played a role in the transition period.
In the period from March 16 to July 20 of this year, mobilization groups covered 1942 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 3615 times.
Participants of the event noted that "100 concrete steps" is an important strategy for the state and society, which all Kazakhstanis need to fulfill.
From August 1 to September 30, 2015, "Let's help children together!" Is held under the motto.
On March 1, 1995, the assembly was created by decree of the head of state and renamed from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
There is a national plan for 2012-2014, according to the plan, all activities were completed, 7 interested ministries and agencies, departments were involved, "he said.
From March 16 to October 16 of this year, mobilization groups covered 3982 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 6,730 times.
this is not enough, "said the head of state.
400 thousand children born last year were provided with benefits from the national budget, the state fund and the social insurance fund.
because of this, over the past 10 years we have not opened large oil and gas fields.
According to the political scientist, the meeting of the leaders of Kazakhstan and China was the fourth this year, as a result of which new projects and agreements worth $23 billion were reached between the countries.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, 24 laboratories in universities, 57 laboratories in colleges will be provided with equipment.
Thus, as I emphasized. Dossaev, to achieve a 50% reduction, it is necessary to reduce 194 permits.
Industrial Park No. 1 today has 58 investment facilities, of which 21 facilities have been commissioned, 37 facilities will be commissioned at the end of 2017.
According to experts, the Mangistau region has enough opportunities to create an oilfield service cluster No. 1 in the Caspian region. according to some leading consulting companies of the world , mangistau region has all opportunities of establishing of a regional oilfield cluster number 1 in the caspian region .
according to him, at the same time, 32% of the total percentage of tax inspections are for inspections for the liquidation of enterprises.
In 15 regions of Kazakhstan, weekly comprehensive measures were carried out to improve quality, "he said.
In 2016, imports will amount to 28.9 billion tenge, in 2020 - 36.1 billion tenge, "he said.
we set ourselves the enormous task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world by the middle of the century.
To date, 30 specialists have been trained in centers for new technologies abroad, "said the Vice Minister.
In addition, in 126 universities, 28% of students study in technical, technological, agricultural and fundamental specialties.
Of the 70 checks listed above, 48 were completed, of which 23 were revealed violations of land legislation.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 3,328 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,436 million tenge, holdings - 61,703 million tenge, akk - 2,923 million tenge.
In December 2015, the Eurasian Economic Council plans to develop a concept for creating a single union of gas, oil and petroleum products, "he said.
In 2015, Kazakhstan launched the production of jac cars on the basis of Saryarkaavtroprom.
This year in the field of animal husbandry - 14 investment projects, 7 feeding grounds, 5 reproducers-farms, a dairy farm, a poultry farm.
in the noise area, it is planned to launch a 125 MW wind farm and a 150 MW solar power plant.
in the Kostanay district, the fair was organized in the village of Zatobolka, where 60 economic entities brought 70 tons of products.
The goal of monetary policy until 2020, approved by the National Bank, is to maintain the devaluation level of 3-4%. the main objective of the national bank is to achieve the inflation level of 3.4 % until 2020 .
The first national championship for the protection of business projects among schoolchildren was held in the capital as part of the development of business leadership among youth sage Kazakhstan 2015.
100 steps, "Air Astana plans to open flights to Dubai in the winter, to Hong Kong at the end of the year, to Tokyo by the end of 2016.
President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev said that by 2020 at least 30% of electricity in Kazakhstan should become renewable energy sources.
The decision shall enter into force within 30 calendar days after its official publication.
in the seventies and reed areas, a crop of at least 10 cents per hectare is expected.
In front of the participants, a new generation bombardier dash 8 q400 aircraft of qazaq air was presented, and a medium-term development plan for the company was announced.
Representatives of the Caribbean Committee and 14 countries of the region participated in the event.
In addition, in 2018, the region will reach 400 MW in total renewable energy capacity.
I want to say that over the past 5 years our project has become very popular and not only in our country. i would like to note that in 5 years , our project has become well-known not only in our country .
in particular, loans in the amount of 10 billion tenge for up to 5 years were transferred to Arcelormittal Temirtau for the purchase of raw materials and materials, their processing for the purpose of further production of finished steel products.
Within the framework of the State Program for the Development of Education until 2020, a network of educational organizations is developing every day.
each of them on this day purchased a casket for men and women, the cost of which starts from 20 thousand tenge.
The main theme of the amm 2015 congress was "Industrial policy in the field of tying: investment, modernization, production."
In particular, last year the volume of financing amounted to 44.7 billion tenge, this year - 50 billion tenge, "the Governor of the region said.
In the first half of 2015, this figure amounted to 600 million dollars, "said N. Nazarbayev.
This year it is planned to accept about 240 applicants from among civilian youth, contract workers and fixed-term military personnel.
The European Union-supported project "Supporting Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy" will last 4 years.
In turn, the ambassador noted that contacts between Kazakhstan and France, including business, began in 1991.
A. Uandykova added that the cost of one square meter of new housing will decrease by 10%.
attracting foreign labor, changing the procedure for self-employment and intra-corporate transfer is provided from January 1, 2017.
According to him, work on 100 concrete steps implemented within the framework of 5 institutional reforms is carried out in two directions.
In general, compared to 2011, the share of local content increased from 59% to 74%, "he said.
At 100 steps of the President of Kazakhstan "it is important that the fourth section is devoted to all issues of conformity.
In the first half of the year, 97 thousand residents of substations, 34 qualified doctors of trains "healthy Kazakhstan," "assistance," "health," examined the state of health.
According to the results of 2014, railway equipment worth 131 billion tenge was produced, the volume of the physical index amounted to 96%. in 2014 , the new sub-industry produced railway equipment totaling 131 billion tenge , the volume index was 96 % .
as a result of the project, Kazakhstan's dependence on imported construction materials, which are now imported 100% from abroad, will decrease.
coal at the Mamyt deposit of the Kargali region is more than 598 million tons.
For 5 months of this year, agricultural formations seized 508 units of agricultural machinery, the report said.
According to the results of open voting, 12 best representatives of the military profession of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan were determined.
In 2015, 1 adoption registration was carried out with foreign citizens, and in 2014 - 6.
Recall that the last forum was held in September 2014.
this will support 1.7 million people or 86 percent of all deposits, "the President of Kazakhstan explained.
According to him, since 2003, at the first congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, an attempt was made. to resolve the conflict of civilization.
It is important for us to move to the standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which includes 30 states, which the President of Kazakhstan spoke about, and we strive for this. about what the president of kazakhstan speaks is important for us : the transition to the standards of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) , which includes 30 developed countries , where we have a goal to enter .
the exhibition brought together 173 of the world's best manufacturers and suppliers of equipment in the pharmaceutical industry.
In addition, bronze medals in the Asian competition went to the Kazakhstani, lifting 173 kilograms.
Memoranda on construction of 14 kindergartens, 3 schools, one polyclinic have already been signed, "the Mayor of Almaty said.
Today, there are 10 rehabilitation (day) centers serving 4.7 thousand citizens (including more than 2.7 thousand women).
As for children under 18 years old, they will not be deprived of any benefits, "he said.
The treaty, signed in Monte Carlo on March 5, 2015, regulates the mechanisms for interaction between law enforcement and the judiciary of the two states.
For example, to date, 167 joint ventures and 461 enterprises operating with Korean capital have been registered in the metropolis.
The republican newspaper "24 kz," "Sovereign Kazakhstan," the Kazakh radio "Kazakhstan Pravda," "Kazakh Radio," "Capital Radio" and the news agency "Kazakhparat" also received awards.
In the first five-year plan, $16 billion was raised in production, which is 2.5 times more than in the previous 5 years.
According to the minister, Kazakhstan was simultaneously a member of the customs union, from January 1, 2015, joining the European Economic Union was difficult.
It should be noted that this year 85 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the purchase of school textbooks, currently all schools are covered by 100% books.
after which an agreement was concluded on visa-free travel among themselves for 30 days with one of them - the Republic of Korea.
including a summer stadium, 2 sports towns, an open-air pool and a sports complex.
In 2014, the number of working citizens amounted to 780 people, "Nadloc said in a statement.
Last year, the head of state supported entrepreneurs in the field of processing, allocating three tranches in the amount of 200 billion tenge. last year the head of state supported entrepreneurs and allocated 200 billion tenge in three tranches to support borrowers in the manufacturing industry .
a new organizational and legal form of state universities - 100% non-profit participation.
From January 1, 2016, legislation on access to public activities and information was introduced.
During the years of the program, 77 facilities were built for a total of 115.1 billion tenge, about 4.9 thousand permanent jobs were created.
It is worth noting that in 2015 124,346 people graduated from school, of which 84,248 in Kazakh, 40,098 in Russian.
To provide the economy with high-quality personnel, 10 partner colleges were selected to fulfill the needs of the country's economy, "he said.
that is, in favorable weather, the remaining 2.1 million hectares can be completed within 2-3 days (1 decade of June).
in the Zharma region today the issue of financing 15 projects from second-level banks is being raised.
The head of the city noted that every year about 3 billion tenge is allocated from the local budget to provide social support to people in need of special care in Almaty.
Since 2010, citizens of Kazakhstan have been able to receive public services and various services in electronic form.
So, this year 1 billion tenge was allocated for the cultivation of this agricultural crop, and relevant support was provided to producers.
It is worth noting that today in the capital there are 88 general education schools, including 11 private ones.
In the near future, 100 innovative projects will be built in the region, which will require 500 qualified specialists. the region will soon build more than 100 innovation projects and their necessity is in more than 500 people .
The event was organized by the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" together with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the chairman of the association's board, such large companies as bi-group, raimbek group, Sberbank in Kazakhstan, gave 100 places for paid practice of young specialists.
and the Governor's Office of the Urdzhar region will prepare proposals for an area of ​ ​ 200 hectares for a poultry farm.
It is noted that in 2014, branches of their own trading network were opened in 15 regions of the Russian Federation.
the agricultural credit corporation financed about 2 thousand producers of small and medium-sized businesses in the amount of about 25 billion tenge.
Last year, 466 families received housing in the region under the Affordable Housing and Employment Roadmap programs.
According to the Department of Economics and Finance, most of the appeals came from Karaganda - 305.
the entrepreneur established waste-free production, which made it possible to create 12 new jobs.
As a result, meat production increased by 1%, milk - by 6.8%, eggs - by 18.2%.
The agreement on the introduction of a single form of a vehicle passport was signed in Moscow on August 15, 2014 by the First Deputy Prime Minister. the agreement on the introduction of uniform forms of vehicles passports was signed by first deputy prime minister on august 15 , 2014 in moscow .
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
in total, 35 objects (20%) of various industries, 29 objects of the garden (16%), 28 objects of production (16%), 19 objects of agriculture (10%) were sold by industries.
It is noted that the government decree comes into force 10 days from the day of official publication.
in addition, a children's sports ground with a total cost of 10 million tenge will be built in one district of the city.
Real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2015 amounted to 103.7%, which is 453.2 billion tenge.
On June 9 of this year in Dubai the presentation of postage stamps took place, a memorandum was signed.
Recall that the forum brought together the leaders of 35 leading universities in Kazakhstan and 32 leading universities in Great Britain.
Farm leaders said that the area of ​ ​ beet crops in the region has increased and this year exceeded 4 thousand hectares.
During the congress, we will discuss the final changes in the industry, the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and trade unions will sign the program for 3 years.	that is an action program for next 3 years ,  the expert told .
According to a.ru, the largest increase in 2005 was 260 million tons, in 2008 - 240 million tons.
Recall that the volume of Shu member countries is 30 million square meters, which is 60 percent of the Eurasian continent.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 242 objects are scheduled for sale.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 243 objects are scheduled for sale.
we conducted a sociological survey, 95% of the population consider themselves a single people of Kazakhstan, "said E. Appel.
thus, the volume of gross regional product amounted to 744 thousand tenge, while the average indicator in the republic was 472.8 thousand tenge.
Today we can call the situation of 1995 a historic choice of the fate of the people. today we see that the events of 1995 are historical , as the people chose its fate .
126 graduates and 114 people are sent for retraining in order to master a new specialty.
According to him, this year 70 events will be organized on the Day of the capital, including republican and international ones.
Since 2014, the production sector provides for subsidizing the costs of acquiring raw materials. from 2014 the state plans to subsidize the costs of processing enterprises in the procurement of raw materials .
As part of the Nұrly zhol state program, 14 infrastructure projects are being implemented through financing of national companies, budget financing of development institutions.
We know that in 2017 the expo will end, perhaps, under the influence of the current crisis, our products will not be consumed in large quantities. we know that expo will be ended in 2017 , and during the current crisis , probably , the cities won 't need so large consumption of our products .
In turn, van elin thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for supporting the company during 20 years of work in the Kazakh market.
At the end of the meeting, council members summarize the activities of the CIS sectoral cooperation bodies for 2014.
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
As of August 1, 2015, the inflation rate in the capital amounted to 101.4%, including 102% for food. as of august 1 , 2015 , the total inflation rate in astana amounted to 101.4 % , including food products - 102 % .
The number of people who scored more than 50 points at the limit level was 82%, "said the chairman of the committee.
At the same time, the volume index for the "communications" industry in January-July 2015 amounted to 102.8%.
this installation cost us 8 million tenge for a period of 10 years.
more than half of the funds were allocated for the construction of the left-bank part of the capital, thanks to which 300 objects were put into operation.
At the beginning of the year, 2 billion tenge was allocated for the repair of public utilities in the village of Shapagatova.
In general, correctional institutions were built in the country in 30-70, where 50-60 people are housed in one bedroom.
Since this year, 10 leading colleges and 10 universities have been conducting targeted training for the industrialization program, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
On the basis of these councils, 8 new educational programs are being developed based on international experience and the requirements of industrialization. on the basis of these recommendations 8 new educational programs based on international experience and the requirements of industrialization have been developed .
Specialists in the field of translation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation over 18 years old can take part in the competition.
In order to increase investment and tourism potential, the government has established a visa-free regime with 20 economically developed countries, he said.
In May 2015, the results of the visits of the President of China Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan and in August of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to China were noted.
Currently, 236 thousand bans have been imposed on leaving the Republic of Kazakhstan, "he said.
According to the minister, 95% of farmers have 10 hectares of land that grow cotton.
823 land plots were provided for the construction of housing, on which it is planned to build 20 million square meters, "he said.
80% of the funds are allocated by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, the remaining 20% are financed by steward engineers and the Investment Fund of Kazakhstan as white investors.
Every entrepreneur who wants to engage in this type of business can get a loan for 5 years at a discount. every citizen who wants to be an entrepreneur can get a loan for 5 years at a reduced interest rate .
his father, the elder sultan, in 1851 built a Muslim mosque in the Karkaraly district.
Following the event, a meeting of the Council of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the CIS countries will be held in 2016 in Moscow.
in Kostanay district, the head of the region visited the Zarechensky state sorting site, where 48 crops are now being tested.
The provisions of the agreement signed in the capital on April 1, 2015 are aimed at increasing cooperation between the two parties in the fight against crime.
The work of this law for 20 years has shown that these norms really work, "said A. Sprassova.
moreover, in the capital more than 35% is associated with transport and warehousing, about 27% - with processing production.
As part of the implementation of the large-scale agribusiness program 2020, more than $16 billion will be invested, which is unlikely for Kazakhstan, "N. Nazarbayev said.
all of them should know how the commission will work before February 1, 2016, "he said.
In the next 15 years, the number of middle-class consumers will grow by 3 billion, of which 90% are China and India, "the head of state said.
Since January 1, we have been working through all the windows, "the investment headquarters and akimats are operating in your ministry (the world).
in general, socially significant indicators are stabilized and revenues to the local budget increased by 11%, "said D. Akhmetov.
The protocol on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO should be approved in our parliament by October 31 of this year. the ratification of the protocol on the accession of kazakhstan to the wto will be held before october 31 .
Compared to 2010, maternal mortality decreased by 2 times, infant mortality - by 1.7 times.
and we prepared today's submission within 4 months, deciding that we should contribute to this common cause.
11 years ago, a law on technical regulation was adopted that fully met the requirements. 11 years ago , the government adopted the law on technical regulation corresponding to the wto requirements .
10 large and medium-sized plants and 30 small plants are planned to be located in the industrial zone.
It is worth noting that earlier it was reported that 10 million tenge will be spent on a one-year stop from the capital budget.
The religious forum will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015 and will be dedicated to the dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for the sake of peace and development.
Since the opening of the industrial zone, 53 billion tenge has been produced here, 3.5 billion tenge has been created as tax revenues to the budget.
In addition, the British investor United Green plans to increase the station's capacity to 100 megawatts by the end of the year.
exemption from corporate and individual income tax for 10 years, preferential attraction of foreign specialists.
plant for the production of macar meat preserves, sausages, founded in 2000.
In 2019, a polypropylene plant with a capacity of 500 thousand tons, polyethylene production with a capacity of 800 thousand tons will be launched.
The project, supported by the state program of production development 2, is being implemented for the first time in East Kazakhstan region.
By order of the Head of State of Ermegiyaev, Talgat Amangeldievich was relieved of the post of Chairman of the Board of the National Company Astana Expo - 2017, "the statement said.
Since February 2014, samruk-kazyna has been a member of the international forum of sovereign wealth funds.
As a result of the measures taken, it is planned to implement about 100 projects. isekeshev.
In the National Plan - 100 concrete steps - the President of Kazakhstan fixed the first 15 steps aimed at modernizing the public service in Kazakhstan.
in the region registered 15 joint ventures in various sectors of the economy with the participation of the Iranian state.
As for state support measures, within the framework of the 2020 Employment Roadmap program, we took loans twice.
During its operation in 2040, the production capacity of the enterprise will reach 268 thousand tons of nickel matte.
The national team of Kazakhstan under the leadership of the senior coach Boranbek Kuratov won 2 gold, 1 silver and 3 bronze medals and took first place in the team event.
15 young specialists from our country were selected from 270 applicants for training in the social entrepreneurship program.
Another of my achievements - I was able to add my 11-year-old son to the lions, "said V. Goncharov.
Based on the implementation of these projects, $2 billion will be attracted to the economy of South Kazakhstan region.
$400 million will also be raised for the implementation of investment projects in the territory of the main city of Kazakhstan.
After receiving the Boeing 767, we will open a route to New York in 2019, "said the president of the airline.
in general, it is expected that more than 2 million guests will visit the exhibition about 5 million times.
competition "Best Social Business Project," "Best Production Business Project," "Best It Project" in 3 nominations.
The opening of new kindergartens will provide pre-school education for 130 jobs and 450 children.
The head of state announced 5 institutional reforms, in the first place - reform of the rule of law, law and the judicial system. the head of state has voiced 5 institutional reforms , in the first place there is the rule of law , justice and reform of the judiciary .
As a result, in the first half of 2015, compared to the same period in 2013, the number of inspections decreased by 60%, "said Dr. Rozhin.
16 agreements guaranteeing loans worth 240 million tenge were approved, "the statement said.
this is a national constitution, in which 3 million Kazakhstanis took part and made 30 thousand proposals.
including 6 and even 9 features of commodity groups of the same level of foreign economic activity.
It is noted that the Sunkar poultry farm in the Zhambyl district of the Almaty region annually produces 44 million eggs.
2019 is the year of electricity, 2025 is the oil, gas and oil products market, "he said.
Within the second five-year plan, it is planned to implement 21 investment projects worth 163 billion tenge with the creation of 6.2 thousand workplaces. Within the second five-year plan of industrialization it's planned to implement 21 investment projects worth 163 billion tenge with the creation of over 6,200 workplaces.
It should be noted that the forum of patriots has been held in different cities of Kazakhstan since 2007.
Having become the Kazakh national operator for the promotion of kaznex invest exports, we presented an industrialization map consisting of 770 projects.
This project worth 830 million tenge was partially implemented by Eurasia Invest Ltd LLP at the expense of Kazagrofinance JSC.
In January-May 2015, 110.1 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the payment of the basic pension, and 380.1 billion tenge was allocated for the payment of the total pension.
today, the program brings together 3,500 schools from 143 countries and 1.5 million students.
Last year, as part of the campaign for material assistance in the amount of 178 million tenge, about 22 thousand children were prepared for the new school year.
18 projects worth 20.25 billion tenge were approved, there is a fattening place of 51.9 thousand.
According to experts, in landscaping 10 sectors of the world economy, 2% of world gin is enough, "he said. Rakhimbekova.
In 2014, this figure will be 20%, by 2017 it will reach 60%, by 2020 - 100%, "the expert emphasized.
The export of woodworking products by state is $5.5 million, imports - $500 million.
As for investment projects, 60 projects are presented here, of which 40 projects need investments, including 20 social projects. speaking about investment projects , 60 projects are being presented here , 40 of them require investment , 20 of them are social .
more than 100 MW of electricity per hour is generated, which meets 70% of the region's needs.
Recall that the "National Company" Astana Expo-2017 "was created on January 15, 2013 to prepare and hold the international specialized exhibition" Ak Expo-2017. "
It should be noted that this year 37.3 billion tenge is allocated for the further implementation of the program (2014 - 94.3 billion tenge, 2013 - 102.9 billion tenge, 2012 - 57.6 billion tenge).
there are 70 multi-storey buildings in the city, and the elevators in them have been demolished for a long time and without repair.
In August 2015, gross international reserves of the national bank increased by 0.4% to 29.1 billion US dollars.
there are about 500 thousand migrants from other regions in the city, the registration of which is incorrect. the city is home to about 500 thousand migrants from other regions .
From 1994 to 1998, he served as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Secretary of State, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
moreover, over the past 300 years there has been no culture of political culture and democracy.
The sown area is 6.3 million hectares, which is 17% more than in 2014.
Following the visit, P.Loro was invited to take part in the second meeting of international participants, which will be held in November 2015 in the capital.
In addition, in the period from 2016 to 2020, it is planned to purchase another 603 wide-body cars.
Special attention is paid to the social development of the district, in the future 2 schools, 3 kindergartens and 4 health facilities will be built.
Today we witnessed the opening of 3 metropolitan schools, the rapids of which left thousands of schoolchildren. today we have witnessed the opening of 3 new schools in the capital .
the average share of women entrepreneurs in the structure of borrowers of the fund for financial programs is 35%.
In addition, 202 graduates or 12% were admitted to higher educational institutions of near and far abroad: UK (warwick university, brunel university, ucl, newcastle university), қytay (hong kong polytechnic university, china university of mining and technology, china university of petroleum), korea (pusan national university, kookmin, yonsei university), Switzerland (gena) University of Economics, Graduate School of Economics.
According to the Chairman of the Board, it is expected to participate in the forum of delegates of 450 enterprises of Kazakhstan, 200 delegates from 30 countries.
We can produce ingots and cells with a capacity of up to 1000 megawatts, "said the head of Kazatomprom.
The completion of the construction of the fire station is scheduled for the end of 2016, the report said.
In addition, 43 thousand tons of petroleum products (1.2 thousand barrels per day) were sold to the domestic market.
It is noted that as of August 1, 2015, the volume of commodity reserves of retail enterprises amounted to 313.6 billion tenge, trading days - 61 days.
The initiative of transparency of the extractive industry in Kazakhstan has been implemented over the past 10 years.
It is worth noting that today the board includes the heads of 34 foreign companies and international organizations.
we achieved the priority goals of the millennium development of the couple, reduced poverty by 20 times (from 60% to 2.9%).
Since opening, the center has already provided about 1,500 public services.
The basis of the games was laid in 1968 by a Chicago physical education teacher.
in Kazakhstan, according to the results of a single national test, the gap is 100%.
almost half of the country's total trade and foreign investment - $100 billion - comes from the European Union.
the total average score of Kazakhstan is 4.49 (4.42 in 2014), which provided the country with a place in the ranking between Poland (4.49) and Italy (4.46).
About 30 million tenge will be required for the implementation of this project, "said the executive director of Kazakhstan Stroyproduct rope of Dildabeks LLP.
Today, my attraction has 10 lion fathers, all of whom have the same youth.
The many thousands position of Kazakhstan society is familiar to many countries, since thousands of countries around the world make up 10%. polyethnicity is characteristic for kazakhstani society , it is familiar to many countries , because there are only 10 % of multiethnic states in the world .
The report notes that these two regions account for 58% of investments in this area.
given the severe limitations, we have identified 3 types of contract.
For the implementation of the lifting project, assistants are provided in 6 units in the areas of housewarming, horticulture, novokubanka, Bosyagyr, dams, Andreevka.
Milan expo 2015 is rated as the most successful in the last decade, "the report said.
over the past two years, the volume of production increased 6.8 times, from 393 million tenge to 2.7 billion tenge.
In 2016, we plan to increase financial instruments, measures for the presentation of Kazakh products abroad. in 2016 , we plan to increase the number of financial tools and measures for support of kazakhstani goods abroad .
1 billion tenge was allocated from the local budget for the purchase of quality seeds, providing farmers and service and training centers with the necessary agricultural equipment.
During the two months of the exhibition, about 5 million people arrived in Milan, half of them were those who visited the exhibition, "said Dr. Write.
The 157th session of the ICD General Assembly with the participation of the Kazakh delegation began its work on June 9, 2015 in Paris.
for the remaining 15 types of socially significant food products, price increases were not observed, "said A. Lukin.
In 100 concrete steps, there are different situations that can concern economics, politics, socialization.
Note that the work was carried out in the amount of 12 billion tenge during the period established by Akniet-bn LLP.
The next day, October 5, a concert will be held with the participation of a wonderful violinist, winner of prestigious international competitions Yerzhan Kulibaev.
By the end of the year, 18 schools will be commissioned in the region, including 11 instead of emergency ones.
During this time, more than 2 million children received material assistance in the amount of more than 10 billion tenge.
Built in 1989, the building needs major repairs and expansion.
The agreement on Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU was signed on December 23, 2014 in Moscow at a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
According to him, 70% of respondents said that they feel like citizens of Kazakhstan, and this is a large indicator.
According to the results of the program, in 2015 4.3 million people are engaged in sports on an ongoing basis, which is 25% of the population.
Note that the tournament was attended by 16 fellows of the international program "future," studying at British universities.
we have two mills, the total capacity of which reaches 450 tons of wheat per day. we have two windmills with a total capacity - 450 tons of wheat per day , this mill processes soft wheat .
the President of Kazakhstan founded the khan in 1995, but the idea of ​ ​ creating it arose in 1992, during difficult days. the president of kazakhstan has created the apk in 1995 , but the idea of was born in 1992 , multiethnic composition of the country was formed in a difficult period .
September 7 at 18.00 hours at the State Academic Kazakh Music and Drama Theater named after Kuanyshbaev
Almaty process is a permanent dialogue platform, created in 2011 on the initiative of Kazakhstan.
As part of the project on training in top management of SMEs, Nazarbayev University received lectures from 45 entrepreneurs of the city.
On July 13, 1992, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on the creation of the domestic special services - the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The republican school named after the village of Nurmagambetov "zhas ulan" was created by a decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 1999.
On June 11, Suleimen held a similar presentation for British and international companies of the London screen.
He noted that the first 10 colleges and 10 universities will train specialists in investment projects.
The head of the committee announced the results of the first month, within which more than 17 billion tenge was returned to the state budget.
It is noted that the White Guards will arrive on August 13 at the Almaty Star House to prepare for the final of the national selection.
So, in the first 6 months of 2014, 379 minors were convicted, in the same period of 2015 - 281 people, "he said.
Shares were held in 11 food markets of the region and 10 trading houses, 6 stores and 13 trading platforms.
firstly, according to experts, low prices for oil and metals can persist for 5 years. firstly , the low oil and metals prices , according to experts , can be maintained for the next 5 years .
Our company was founded in 2011 in the special economic zone "South" and launched in 2013 in the city of Shymkent, South Kazakhstan region.
On June 9, the President of Kazakhstan plans to meet with the President of Finland as part of the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions in the capital.
Also, 16 specialists will be trained in Australian technologies for the exploration of scattered deposits at iluka resources limited.
Article 12 of the Constitution recognizes and guarantees human rights and freedoms.
204 pupils of a military school vowed to serve their homeland honestly and honestly and know the basics of military affairs.
apartments in the new house were provided to equal waiting lists, the rent of one square meter amounted to 912 tenge.
in total, 7 wells are planned, 3 are designed for the extraction of geological cores and 4 experimental and industrial ones, for which drilling has already begun.
in the amount of $165 million (30 billion tenge).
Interregional and border cooperation, established on the basis of 200 treaties and agreements, is of great importance in the development of bilateral relations.
total employment of 6.3 million hectares. this is 17% higher than in 2014.
The implementation of the projects is scheduled for the second half of 2016, "the deputy chairman of the committee added.
2016 will be a significant year not only for the educational institution, but also for the state as a whole. 2016 will be a landmark not only for the university , but for the whole country .
Within the framework of the memorandum on mutual cooperation between the Eurasian group and the akimat of Kostanay region, the company allocated 15 million tenge for the construction of the facility. 15 million tenge was allocated by the company for the construction of the facility as part of a memorandum on mutual cooperation in the implementation of social projects between the eurasian group and kostanai region .
17 billion 793.1 million tenge was allocated for housing construction in January-September 2015, which is 26.8% higher than the same period last year.
today there are 3.5 thousand international carriers with a fleet of 13.8 thousand units (6 thousand according to the hgt system).
To date, 100 billion tenge has been fully utilized from the national fund, aimed at supporting and lending to SMEs.
The department is engaged in the construction of institutions of state importance and 16 football stadiums throughout the country.
On August 20, an act of the working commission will be signed, "Governor of North Kazakhstan region Yerik Sultanov said.
Of the unemployed who applied through employment centres, 88 per cent were employed.
In addition, 20 projects with an investment volume of 193 billion tenge and the creation of about 3.7 thousand jobs will be implemented in the industrialization map of the region.
Despite the negative trends in the framework of trade and economic cooperation, over the past two years, bilateral trade has exceeded $1 billion. within the framework of economic and trade cooperation , in spite of the negative trends in the world economy , the bilateral trade turnover exceed 1 billion dollars .
19 teams from 16 countries took part in the bike ride, including professional "astana pro team" and Russian "katyushi."
The competition will be monitored by 20 groups of independent observers from Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America.
According to the acts of supervision of counterparties of legal entities whose state registration has been canceled, the state revenue bodies have recalculated revenues by 31 billion tenge, of which 6.9 billion tenge has been returned to the budget to date.
The number of indigenous people has increased compared to the previous year and today exceeds 31 thousand people.
during the inspection of cars, 100 pieces of saiga horns and 2 smooth-bore guns and 232 shots were identified and seized.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, 830 employees of these organizations are involved in providing public services to villagers.
100 concrete steps are the purposeful, systematic achievement of the development goals of the National Plan.
As a result, under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," the entrepreneur guaranteed 6.2 million tenge or 70% of the loan received from the bank.
In addition, he added that 5 institutional reforms will have a positive impact on the rating of geniuses.
Within the framework of the state program, the center developed 100 educational and methodological books, which are distributed across the regions of the republic. the center developed about 100 study guides distributed in all regions of the country .
The cost of the project is 25 million euros, which indicates the readiness of foreign companies to invest significant funds. the cost of the project is 25 million euros , the initiators are willing to invest in the initiative .
thanks to its small dimensions, it can pass through a gate more than 2 meters high.
To date, we have received 58 letters - 48 countries and 10 international organizations have officially agreed to participate in the exhibition.
According to East Kazakhstan region, 19 teams from all districts and cities of the region will take part in the event.
In 2012, tasks falling within the competence of the responsible secretary and head of the state body were noted.
In addition, K.Nskenbayev noted that in 2014, with a plan of 6.9, 7.5 million square meters of housing were commissioned.
By the end of the year, more than 3 thousand additional apartments will be commissioned.
because women make up half of the country's population, and their share in the civil service exceeds half (55%).
The event was attended by heads of "royal dutch shell," "" bg group, "" barclays bank, "" vitol group, "" de la rue, "" glencore "and others.
According to the plan, in six months, 1000 military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and their families will settle in new apartments.
per capita infusion increased 18-fold to central and eastern Europe.
In 2014, a representative office of our company was opened in Orenburg.
According to the minister, according to the agreement, the general energy market will be ready by July 1, 2019.
and among girls - the sports school of the Shieli district No. 9.
According to the chairman of the committee, 5 people received the highest 125 points, last year there were 4.
in the field of provision of public services, the local budget was charged: from non-profit persons - 9,358,214 tenge, and from commercial persons - 12,140,617 tenge.
the floor area of the Kazakhstan railway building is a round segment, the radius of which is p = 21.5 m and the angle a = 200 degrees.
The list of these sites is being considered and will be sent to the Government of Kazakhstan for consideration on December 15 this year, the Minister said.
The 2015 plan is the commissioning of 400 thousand square meters or at least 7 thousand apartments. the plan for 2015 is to hand over 400 thousand square meters , or at least 7 thousand apartments .
every year for 7 years, the republican action "Road to School" is held.
The annual revenues of kazneftegaz amounted to $400 billion, which we have retained for many years.
Since the beginning of the Capital - Growth project, 3 sections have been opened, the total length of which was 118 km. since the beginning of realization of astana - ust-kamenogorsk project 3 areas 118 km in length were commissioned .
Work continues on 509 km, these are: Pavlodar section (443 km) and Pavlodar (66 km), "the report said.
According to him, the deputies of the parliament at the fourth session considered 9 thousand letters, which were decided in accordance with the law.
the average weight of the tribal males auctioned is 480 kg, the starting cost is 360 thousand tenge.
the share of renewable energy sources in the energy balance of this country is increased to 92%.
On June 15, a solemn ceremony of presenting diplomas to the first graduates of Nazarbayev University will take place, in which the head of state is planned to participate.
a total of 1998 balish will be developed, which means the year the capital was renamed.
Of these, 28 projects worth 10.6 billion have been introduced to date. Tenge.
Of these, 20 projects worth 29.6 billion have been launched to date. Tenge.
In 2014, trade amounted to $14 million, which, I hope, will grow after my visit, "the president said.
Over 10 years, trade has increased 13 times, the volume of European investments in the economy of Kazakhstan has increased 10 times.
It is noted that 823 athletes (495 men and 328 girls) from 137 countries will take part in it.
For 19 years, negotiations have been conducted, we defended our position and farmers, and I think this is good. during 19 years , we have been negotiating , defending our positions , import substitution , and , i think , that is good job .
The book contains data on 17 districts and 2 cities with 70 thousand conscripts.
For this, 5 institutional reforms will work, voiced by the government and the head of state, "he said.
Recall that in June 2015, the Kazakh-Indian business forum was held in the country.
17 objects and securities worth 636.5 million tenge were legalized, "the report said.
Over the course of two seasons, about 60 children from lower classes will be able to improve their health and relax.
Colleges and universities will attract more than 2 thousand production specialists.
It should be noted that from January to July 2015 the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Iran amounted to 359.8 million US dollars.
the school, built in a modern style, is located in a three-story building and is designed for 270 seats.
On June 5, 70 children from Akkol and Uryupinsky orphanages became guests of the Solonika charity foundation.
payment of remuneration is proposed to be introduced in 15 nominations, "the senator said.
The Chairman recalled warmly his visit to Havana in 1995 as Minister for Foreign Affairs and his meeting with the commander of the fidel castro.
According to the program, at the expense of all sources of funding, we have implemented a plan to modernize 31 thousand km of networks.	according to the program , due to all sources of funding , we have carried out a plan to achieve the upgraded network exceeding 31 thousand km .	2,84
A visa-free regime has also been established for investors from 20 countries, including Japan.	in addition , the visa-free regime for investors from 20 countries , including for the citizens of japan , have been introduced .	2,84
The institute includes 19 museums, a zoo, 9 research centers and 156 museums that are units of the Smithsonian institution.	the institute consists of 19 museums , zoo , 9 research centers , 156 museums .	2,84
At the end of 2014, the center allocated 18 million tenge for the introduction of electronic tickets for bus routes in Kazakhstan into a single system.
70% of heat pipes need to be upgraded, and in general, work is being carried out.
A 51-year-old resident of Kyzylord, who intentionally grew a nervous plant, was detained.
This year, participants try themselves in 20 nominations, "said the director of the media group madi manatback.
It is noted that 211 people were brought to administrative responsibility for violating tax legislation.
to date, the project has received a bank guarantee in the amount of 20 million tenge and 50% of the loan amount of the Development Fund.
Recall that 101 Kazakhstani enterprises are currently involved in the construction of the objects of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition, the total amount of contracts concluded amounted to 88 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan has decided to reduce the greenhouse gas balance by 15% by 2020 and by 25% by 2050.
children were divided into 4 groups, each of which was presented with basic equipment used by rescuers.
According to E. Dossayev, this year alone 266.3 km of heat and water networks will be built, 14 units of boiler houses will be installed.
In 2014, our large enterprises - LLP "maslo - del," companies "cesna-grain," "dolce-pharm" - again improved their qualifications.
It is planned that 2 million 100 people will come to the exhibition, of which 300 thousand are foreign tourists, "said R. Asanbaev.
thanks to state support, the company reduced interest rates on loans in the bank to 7% per annum.
The income plan for the first half of the year was completed by 48% against the annual forecast, by expenses - by 46.3%.
Within the second five-year plan of this project it is planned to implement 40 projects worth 426.7 billion tenge.
In addition, 366 subsidy agreements totaling 35.8 billion tenge were signed in the first quarter of this year.
because 90 percent of the remains turned out to be horse bones, "he continued.
13 stopping points on the plateau-Kalamkas highway along the internal route of whitewash-akshukur and whitewash-shapagatov are also being repaired.
In his opening remarks, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that 2015 will be the year of dedication of the President of Kazakhstan to national history.
in developed countries, 70% will be directed to pre-trial settlement of disputes in which the judge will participate.
June 10, 2004 with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
The director of the kindergarten of kurbans noted that 67 children have been registered to date.
Another 6 projects were implemented this year, another 4 projects are planned to be completed by the end of the year.
Since the beginning of the program, 15 projects have been launched in the region, 188 new jobs have been created.
this year alone, 31 per cent of women entrepreneurs received preferential loans.
In addition, the Kazakh delegation took part in Turkey's largest international packaging exhibition "ipack turkey 2015."
During the meeting, the general contractors of the national company signed 11 agreements with domestic producers.
the delegation visited 17 Kazakhstani companies in the field of Iranian engineering, chemistry, construction, pharmaceuticals, nutrition, metallurgy.
Recall the slogan of the aktau open fest festival 2015 - "starve in front of your city."
gas distribution inside the village is carried out through 13 small gas points.
the employee contribution rate will be 2% of income, contributions in 2019 will be 1%, from 2020 - 2%.
As follows from the message, in 2015 a number of new social facilities are planned to be commissioned in the region.
Note that in the team event Kazakhstan won 33 athletes.
The road is built according to indicators of the i technical category and is expanded to 4 lanes.
the border of the Tashkent-Shymkent-Zhambyl region, the bypass road of the city of Taraz and 569 kilometers of diamond-lead sections.
annual output exceeds 100 million tenge, while 2 thousand jobs were created.
Recall that South Korea is among the 10 countries working with our country in a visa-free regime.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, 42 countries and 4 international organizations officially confirmed their participation in the exhibition.
The opening of Nazarbayev intellectual schools took place as part of the state program "20 intellectual schools," initiated by the head of state.
there is a friendly cultural tourist complex, there are 85 places in the hotel.
the value of all contracts is $350 million.
On the eve of EXPO-2017, the first wind power plant worth 18 billion tenge was built in the Areymentau district. new wind farm worth $ 18 billion was built in yereimentau district .
This year we will have 157 new schools throughout the country, 84 of which will open their doors today.
As a result, the equipment of the Pavlodar 3rd heat turbine workshop will be updated by 90%, "the report said.
136 new contracts have been concluded for groundwater, solid minerals, with the exception of uranium and coal.
In 2002, sculptors such as Ralph Grüneberg and Burgard Pfrentsiger made exact copies of the troops.
clothing costs about 4 thousand tenge, you can train anywhere, on the carpet.
Considering that the height of the transport tower building is 155 meters, measure the distance from some point to this building.
In addition, a meeting of the presidents of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States will be held in the capital on October 16, "he said. swans.
Also, according to social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
As M.Pishembayev noted, in the future, the coverage of Kazakh vehicles can be 100%.
Currently, the company produces 500 km of pipes per year - this is 50-60% of the production capacity.
For more than 20 years, we have been actively cooperating with China mainly in the fields of energy and resource extraction.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev:
the first project is a sports complex with an area of ​ ​ 25 hectares, a playground, spa centers and restaurants, 320 transport fleets.
after our country gained sovereignty, on June 4, 1992, state symbols, a coat of arms, and a anthem were approved. june 4 , 1992 - the state symbols - the flag , emblem and anthem were approved .
about 2.5 units of road construction equipment and 6 thousand people were involved in reconstruction projects.
The average UNT score in 2015 rose by 2.6 points and amounted to 79.5 points. average unt score in 2015 has been increased by 2.6 points and totaled 79.5 points .
In front of the national team, it is planned to win 100 licenses in 27 sports, "he said.
The main goal of institutional reforms is to be among the 30 developed countries by 2050. institutional reforms are aimed to join the top 30 developed countries in 2050 .
in the next five years, Kazakhstanis, including the Prosecutor General's Office, were invited to 8 UN special rapporteurs.
In addition, 120 entrepreneurs in Kashira district received loans under this program.
for example, in Akmola region the owner of the apartment of 52 sq.m. will be returned about 750 tenge (52 x 14.3 = 743.6).
you initiated this initiative 15 years ago, when the situation was completely different than now.
in particular, a program of cooperation between the CIS states on strengthening external security at external borders until 2020 was approved, "he said.
today there are only 3 plants in the world that produce these products using modern technologies.
Recall that the 43rd International Conference of Traditional Music ictm will be held until July 22 this year.
During the seminar, the main changes in iso 9001:2015, iso 10001:2014, iso 22313:2012 standards were analyzed, which will help enterprises become competitive.
all work is carried out according to the schedule, the commissioning of the facility is scheduled for the second half of 2015, "said Mikhail Yalbachev.
As of October 26 this year, 438.1 thousand hectares of grain spikes or 97.5% of the sown volume (449.4 thousand hectares) were harvested, the gross harvest amounted to 1 million 118 thousand tons. as of october , 26 the total harvest amounted to 1 million 118 thousand tons .
in the center is a stele of 101 ears, which is a symbol of the unity of all nationalities living in Kazakhstan.
in the two initiatives they are designed for 5 years and should harmoniously complement each other, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the largest number of projects was implemented in Akmola (78), Almaty (69), North Kazakhstan regions (53), the smallest - in Mangistau (3) and Kyzylorda (10) regions.
The participants of the event also adopted the industry development agenda for the period after 2015.
According to him, the Universiade-2017 is the largest and most comprehensive sports event in the history of Kazakhstan.
2 . this decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
the production capacity of the plant reaches 15 tons of dairy products per day.
Over the past 6 years, payments of Kazakh mining companies to the budget have increased 2.5 times.
In 2014, this indicator in the whole country amounted to 5%, in single-industry towns - 4.7%.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 1,430 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,212 million tenge, holdings - 58,366 million tenge, akk - 2,917 million tenge.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,273 million tenge, holdings - 60 835 million tenge, akk - 2 917 million tenge.
According to him, 200 billion dollars of direct investment have been attracted in the country. "
today there are 200 countries in the world, but not all Urals have the opportunity to fly into space.
On June 13, the founding congress of urologists of the CIS countries will be held, at which the president of the Association of Urologists of the CIS countries will be elected.
The volume index for the communications industry in January-September 2015 amounted to 101.7%.
In general, the entrepreneur opened his greenhouse in 2010, it occupies 50 acres of land.
Of these, 1.2 million individual entrepreneurs make up 600 thousand women, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
Born on January 12, 1960 in the village of Karakalpak, Kostanay region.
In 1986, the American constitutionalist James Buchan received the Nobel Prize on the topic "constitutional economics."
Today, 84 communal markets with a total area of ​ ​ 31 thousand square meters operate in the country.
According to the fund, in January 2015, 89 surety agreements worth 3.4 tenge were signed.
13 types of apples grown in the Tyumen regions of the Almaty region can be purchased during the year.
In the socio-economic sphere, prosecutors identified 245 violations of the law, for which appropriate measures have been taken.
According to the head of state, 770 new facilities have been introduced to implement the first five-year plan of the industrialization program.
11 thousand decisions on administrative offenses, 12 thousand illegal acts and 172 normative acts were repealed.
Since the beginning of the construction of the capital, about 16 million square meters of housing have been commissioned. about 16 million square meters of housing have been commissioned since the founding of the capital .
The main thing for the region is the social aspect of the project, since it provides stable work for 30 people.
The volume of investments in exploration at the first stage of the project will be $2 million.
As K. Massimov stressed, from August 1 of this year the Republican Budget Commission will begin its work.
5048 unemployed are employed, which is 5.8% higher than last year, "the report said.
international organizations of 79 countries in Africa, the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific are among the countries of the act.
the quality of life of patients increased by 100% compared to syringe therapy.	in comparison with the syringe therapy the quality of patients life improved by 100 % ( from 47.7 to 97.3 % ) .	2,89
According to a military specialist, the implementation of infrastructure projects of Kazakhstan until 2020 will allow entering the Eurasian and world markets.	according to a. mamin , the implementation of infrastructure projects through 2020 will provide access to world markets for kazakhstan and countries of the eurasian region .	2,89
It is worth noting that those who want to see the festival of nomadic civilization will be able to see for free until July 7.	the festival of nomadic civilization will last until july 7 for free .	2,89
The main task of this year is to prepare for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
According to Nazim Madatov, deputy director of the information and computing center of the Ministry of Communications and High Technologies of the Republic of Azerbaijan, 409 services were launched.
fighters competed in the reconnaissance trail, consisting of 43 land, water and mountain obstacles.
It is worth noting that today more than 15 thousand people with disabilities live in the capital.
if you take the last - 2014, then tenge fell by 20% to the yuan.
foreign direct investment in manufacturing increased by 2 times compared to the previous year.
after the Aktogai region, 4 mobile medical complexes are sent to multinational and mourning areas.
now personnel are being selected for 130 places allocated to the magistracy, "said A. Koval.
According to A.Tastanova, the project, introduced in 2015, involves a deeper study of the reasons for self-realization.
The Chamber of Commerce of Kazakhstan organized the participation of 20 Kazakhstani exporting companies in this conference.
The best sergeant of air defense units of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan will be known on August 10.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,436 million tenge, holdings - 61,703 million tenge, akk - 2,923 million tenge.
In turn, this is aimed at implementing the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
this is very important for us, because 70 thousand ethnic Belarusians found their settlements in Kazakhstan, "said B. Andreichenko.
the first team place in this competition was taken by the team of the military unit 18404 Taldykorgan.
The program "100 concrete steps," which was raised by the President of Kazakhstan, aroused the interest of the summit participants.
today Belarus introduced 60% of the model law "On Competition," in Kazakhstan - 90%, in Russia - 94%.
8 projects were financed through the credit commission of Kyzylorda Regional Investment Center LLP for a total amount of 57.8 million tenge.
The Almaty Children's Village, primarily included in 1997, is the first stage of development of the national association.	in 1997 the first children 's village in almaty started work .	2,90
marketing research notes that during all presentation performances, the halls were filled by 99%.	the marketing research data has shown 99 % occupancy rate of the theatre halls at all the premiere performances .	2,90
Currently, 44 thousand people with disabilities live in Almaty, of which 23 thousand are employed.	today almaty has about 44 thousand persons with disabilities , 23 thousand people of them are employed .	2,90
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 830 employees of these organizations are involved in providing public services to villagers.	830 employees of these institutions were involved in government services .	2,90
according to the examination, the cost in Kazakhstan annually amounts to 1 million cubic meters. m. Timber harvesting up to m.	east kazakhstan has more than 1 million cubic meters of possible annual timber volume .	2,90
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the visit of the village of Emeron to Kazakhstan in 2013 gave a new impetus to bilateral relations.	the head of state noted that david cameron 's visit to kazakhstan in 2013 gave a significant impulse to bilateral relations .	2,90
Note that in 2010 the company switched to the use of alternative energy sources, 23 solar panels were installed.	however , in 2010 the company started to use alternative energy sources , 23 solar panels to provide hot water were installed .	2,91
In addition, in 2015, 6.1 billion tenge was allocated for the repair and reconstruction of local roads.	also , the authorities allocated kzt 6.1 billion for the construction , reconstruction , maintenance and repair of local roads in 2015 .	2,91
It is worth noting that in 12 years about 200 thousand questions were compiled in the database.	it should be noted that the overall database over 12 years is about 200 thousand questions .	2,91
The bill from January 1, 2016 establishes full state pension provision for employees of armed groups.	bill c 1 january 2016 is set full state pension security forces .	2,91
Recall, on August 31, the head of state N. Nazarbayev arrived on a working visit to the People's Republic of China.	on august 31 , the head of state nursultan nazarbayev arrived in the people 's republic of china and attended the parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory of the chinese people in the war of resistance against japan .	2,91
The committee is ready to submit an opinion on this bill by September 7, "said V. Rogalev.
According to experts, 8% of trade in China and Europe is carried out through Kazakhstan. as experts estimate , about 8 % of the trade between china and europe will pass through kazakhstan .
the company has a feedlot for 300 heads of meat cattle.
About 27% of citizens took part in the ecological improvement of the regions (improvement and improvement).
A memorandum on the implementation of the project in Kyzylorda region was signed on December 23 last year.
In order to preserve the heating and water supply network in 2015, the National Fund invested 60 billion tenge, in 2016 - 90 billion tenge. in order to radically reduce the wear of heat networks , water supply and sanitation the national fund provides 60 billion tenge in 2015 , 90 billion tenge in 2016 .
In 2015, 3.7 billion tenge was allocated under the Business Roadmap 2020 program, including 1.5 billion tenge for the development of industrial infrastructure.
In December 2014, DBK allocated the first tranche in the amount of 50 billion tenge, in March of this year the bank received another 50 billion tenge.
This year, Tsesna Grain Concern, as well as Success 2009 LLP, participates in this program.
According to the director of the plant, such houses are carried out quickly and 30% cheaper in time.
By the end of 2015, the planned cargo turnover will be 38,760 gfe (twenty feet of equivalent).
in second place is East Kazakhstan region (177.7 billion tenge), in third - South Kazakhstan region (131 billion tenge).
over the past two months, about 4 thousand calls have been received, "said Abralov.
Note that the weight of one ingot of gold is 12 kg and costs 500 thousand dollars.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 1%, in manufacturing - by 0.2%. in mining and quarrying production increased by 1 % , processing industry - by 0.2 % .
9 deputies of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan were elected at the parliamentary meeting, all of them work in the competent committees. the majilis elected 9 deputies from the kazakhstan people 's assembly , they all work in the relevant committees .
In total, 8.5 thousand representatives from 120 countries will take part in the 6 World Army Games.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is implementing the national plan "100 steps," 7 steps of which concern the field of education and science.
akmola, atyrau, Kyzylorda region and Almaty vaccinated more than 90% of people.
The trade turnover between the two countries from January to October 2014 amounted to $2.76 billion.
Recall, on March 29, 2015, a direct flight was established along the Astana-Paris route on the Boeing 757 plane.
As part of a comprehensive program, the historical and dramatic multi-part film "Қaza eli," consisting of 10 episodes, is shot.
1.6 billion tenge was allocated from the local budget for the overhaul of 7 educational facilities.
Over the past two years, 7 rural outpatient clinics have been built in Mangistau district.
domestic playgrounds will also be repaired, for which 21 million tenge will be allocated.
By the end of the meeting, agricultural producers of the region signed agreements with second-tier banks totaling 780 million tenge.
The $150 million project will be funded through voluntary investments, he said.
From January 1, 2016, a new model of remuneration for civil servants is introduced.	from january 1 , 2016 the ministry will introduce a new model of salaries of workers of education , the minister said .	2,92
370 outerwear sewing companies, including school uniforms, operate in the country's market.	more than 370 companies work for the production of outer clothing , including school uniforms in the country .	2,92
Kazakhstan is among the 30 countries attracting the largest number of direct investments from abroad.	according to the un conference on trade and development ( unctad ) , kazakhstan has joined 30 countries with the highest volume of foreign direct investments .	2,92
the document was discussed by the parties in December 2011 in Paris and subsequently published in April 2012.	the parties discussed this document in december 2011 in paris , and published it in april 2012 .	2,92
The Chairman of the Board of the national nuclear company said that the local share obligations enshrined in the memorandum were fulfilled by 128%.	chairman of the national atomic company reported on the implementation of the memorandum on the development of local content by 128 % .	2,92
on the third floor there is a dormitory, gym and reading room for 40 people.	the third floor includes a hostel designed for 40 seats , a sports hall , and a classroom .	2,92
today, the airport of the capital carries an average of 10 thousand people per half year, which is 140 flights.	the airport of astana on the average daily serves about 10 thousand passengers , 140 flights .	2,92
In the second half of 2016, the Wedding Palace will begin full-fledged work and marry.	in the second half of 2016 , the wedding palace can start work .	2,92
Within five years, the national nuclear company will supply 5,000 tons of natural uranium to India.	within five years , the national atomic company will supply 5000 tons of natural uranium to india .	2,92
Also, enterprises have two drying units, produce 50 tons of products per hour.	the enterprise also has two drying units operating on gas , with capacity of 50 tons per hour each .	2,92
if earlier Russia used 5 thousand hectares of land, now it uses 700-800 hectares.	earlier russia used more than 5 thousand hectares , now there will be about 700-800 .	2,92
This is the 20th event that I held as a director and producer, including 6 Olympic events.
in Aktobe and West Kazakhstan region, the campaign for additional immunization against measles was completed with coverage of 100%.
Recall that the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will be held in the capital from June 10 to 11, 2015.
The capital's airline plans to open flights from the capital to Shanghai in 2019 and in 2018.
the Russian ruble fell by half, the Belarusian - by 56%, the Armenian currency - by 17%.
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, the country's exports in the first half of the year decreased by 73%. according to national bank of kazakhstan , the export in the first half of the year has been decreased by 73 percent .
Recall that the next congress of leaders of world and traditional religions will be held in 2018 in the capital.
60 universities identified on the basis of a competition for educational grants were recognized as worthy.
The construction of the memorial, erected on its territory after the destruction of the World Trade Center, was completed in 2011.
mutual trade turnover is growing every year, last year it amounted to 17 billion dollars. every year bilateral trade is increased , last year it amounted to 17 billion dollars .
This year, 232 social projects for private investments totaling more than 3 billion tenge were submitted to the competition in Almaty region.
planned annual silver production increased by about 10% compared to the previous projected 2.2-2.5 million ounces.
He noted that in 2013, 809 citizens were registered in Kazakhstan, in 2014 - 775, for 9 months of 2015 - 417.
gross agricultural output amounted to 30.3 billion tenge or 106.7% by January-June 2014.
In addition, the Minister noted that in 2017-2018, excluding the transfer, income is expected to increase by 211 billion tenge.
we added 6 thousand new samples to the list, and also conduct tests on 5 more samples.
On the effectiveness of services in the market, we agreed with 15 member states of the international organization, "the minister said.
The volume of manufactured products amounted to 35.1 billion tenge, compared to the same period in 2014, growth amounted to 3.8%.
as a result, 40% confirmed their knowledge, military skills and were recommended for admission to the reserve for senior positions.
According to the director, 11 million tenge was spent on the project, the film was prepared in Kazakh and Russian.
The design capacity of the facility will be 45 MW per year, in the future it will be expanded to 300 MW.
In January-July 2015, industrial enterprises of the region produced products at current prices in the amount of 772.5 billion tenge.
its guests were stars such as christina aguilera, katy perry, jennifer lopez, 50 cent, 30 seconds to mars, tokio hotel, sum 41, anostacia, kreyg david, the pussycat dolls, psy, ola.
Gulshara abdykalikova was also visited by the state historical and cultural reserve "Zhidebay-Burili" created in 1940 - the Abai Museum.
About 9 thousand greenhouse farms in the region provide equipment with the Shymkent plant zero max kz.
On June 4, the 28th meeting of the Foreign Investors Council will be held, the main topic of which will be agribusiness in Kazakhstan.
2,870 people were employed in permanent and newly opened jobs through state and sectoral programs.
For Kazakhstan, the achievement of the 25th anniversary of independence is Kazakhstan's tolerance. for kazakhstan , the most important achievement of the 25 - year history of independence is kazakh tolerance when people consciously are in contact with representatives of many cultures , that is , the assembly has become a kind of guarantor of existence of many nations and ethnic groups in the territory of kazakhstan , " the expert said .
since the total capital of the forum participants is 4 trillion dollars.
Today, universities have developed 24 new master's programs, "he said. zhuibayev.
Most recently, our country has achieved another success, negotiations have ended, which lasted 19 years. recently , our country has achieved another great success , resulted in negotiations that lasted 19 years .
As you know, the Winter Universiade will be held in Almaty from January 29 to February 8, 2017.
As part of the Kazakh-Kazakh project, 197 memoranda worth 5.3 billion tenge and 22 agreements worth 2.8 billion tenge were concluded, of which 53.9% have been completed to date.
In general, the results of the 2016 rating showed the optimal work carried out by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said M. Mukhanov.
In the foreign student environment of Kazakhstan today there are more than 40 thousand children and adolescents. there are more than 40 thousand young kazakh men and women abroad .
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 3,328 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 2,769 million tenge, holdings - 61,703 million tenge, as well as 2,956 million tenge.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 3,328 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 2,770 million tenge, holdings - 61,703 million tenge, akk - 2,956 million tenge.
The construction of the facility is planned to be completed in the second half of 2016.
in total, our military won 47 medals, in particular - 7 gold, 16 silver and 24 bronze, leaving behind athletes from Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Armenia.
160 entrepreneurs from China, China, Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong took part in the meeting.
It is worth noting that after Karaganda the campaign will be held in the cities of Aktau (August 12), Shymkent (August 18) and will end in a non-growing (August 24).
100 steps will allow Kazakhstan to become a global international center of trade, commerce, finance and culture. 100 steps is a program that should be very clear to consolidate the position of kazakhstan as a global international center for trade , commerce , finance and culture .
In addition, at the beginning of this year, 10 billion tenge was allocated to update the material and technical base of 10 educational institutions.
Recall that this year the military institute of the Air Defense Forces named after twice Hero of the Soviet Union talgate Bigeldinov prepared 108 cadets for graduation, including 15 representatives of the ATO countries.
The parties also noted the importance of the fifth summit of heads of state of Turkic-speaking countries, which will be held on September 11 in the capital.
we visited the Zerendin district within a radius of about 300 km, got acquainted with interesting historical places. we traveled almost 300 kilometers in all directions in zerenda district ...
commander Sergei Volkov will be in orbit for 188 days, Kazakh and Danish cosmonauts - 10 days.
Also, funds for sale were allocated to the republican budget - 2 730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,294 million tenge, holdings - 60 850 million tenge, accc - 2 919 million tenge.
Currently, 43% of trips between cities are carried out by air intake.	43 % is low figure in comparison with other countries ,  he said .
Also, Abdikalikova met with families of citizens who took part in the program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
In particular, the volume of construction work amounted to 12 billion tenge or 169.1% compared to the same period last year.
In 2012, in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 10th special economic zone "Taraz Chemical Park" was created.
in this regard, the creation of a new public service is prescribed in 15 steps, "said E. Bekturganov.
we're talking about dropping a barrel of oil to $35.
the main suppliers are Germany (18.9%), Japan (15.4%), Singapore (15.2%), South Korea (13.4%) and Aksh (10%).
By the end of 2017, Kazakhstan plans to provide infrastructure and logistics.
According to the head of the department, within the framework of the law, a state energy register has been developed, which includes 8,000 subjects.
260 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund, 100 billion tenge - to the manufacturing industry through commercial banks. the national fund allocated 260 billion , of these 100 billion were directed to the process industry .
The head of the regional department of entrepreneurship and tourism also spoke about the implementation of the Agrobines 2020 program.
mountain territory in Kazakhstan is 10%, but at the same time it is adjacent to the territory of states where hostilities take place.
in this regard, we hope to support the Kazakh initiative to hold the next meeting in May 2016 in the capital. "
After everything that happened in the fall of 2014 in Russia, we felt this pressure in 2015. after all the events that occurred in russia in the autumn of 2014 , in 2015 we fully feel the pressure .
Now road construction work is carried out on 2 thousand km, 70 thousand people are involved in the work, "said A. Iskeshev.
in the city of Konya there are 9 organized industrial zones and 15 small industrial zones.
Kazakhstan exports up to 40% of yellow phosphorus, up to 46% of uranium to the world market.
the weight of traded tribal kashars reaches from 300 to 340 kg in 12-13 months.
Today, 940 borrowers of the manufacturing industry have been financed at the expense of the National Fund by 6%, "he said.
The terms of financing were approved by Government Resolution No. 271 of April 23, 2015 in terms of support for Kazakhstan exporters.
It is noted that the company "Tsesna-Zerno" participated in the state programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Agribusiness-2020."
According to scientists, this operation was performed on a person aged 14-15 years and lasted up to 35 years.
Opening of the first season took place in 13 children's health centers of Akmola region.
It is noted that in the new academic year, more than 111 thousand students study in schools in the region.
About 168 thousand blood centers in 10 countries of the world declare the accumulation of 83 million donations of blood.
as sellers - 89 individuals, 82 legal entities, including 2 non-residents and 2 individual entrepreneurs.
we want to build a poultry farm in the region with a total capacity of 30 thousand tons of meat.
today we launched honey production for school students with a share of 10, 15, 20 gr.
Since October 15, heating of all social facilities and residential buildings of the region has been introduced.
According to the program of industrial and innovative development, it is planned to launch 13 projects in the amount of 13.6 billion tenge this year.
Secondly, in 2014 we created an infrastructure land system of the high space navigation system, "the head of state said.
The movement of special olympics Kazakhstan, consisting of 21 thousand athletes, has been operating in the country since 1990.
This year, the company signed an agreement on the acquisition of 2117 units of agricultural and special equipment in the amount of 27 billion tenge. this year , the company signed contracts for the purchase of 2117 units of agricultural and special equipment in the amount of 27 billion tenge .
Just 7 months earlier, the number of users of the portal amounted to 3 million characters.
Also, as part of the forum, the presentation of the collection "Ha 20 years - one country - one fate" will take place.
the union brings together more than 175 million people, 20 million square kilometers, that is, 15 percent of the world's land. the union has over 175 million people , more than 20 million square kilometers , 15 % of the world 's land .
Also, as the executive director noted, the completion of construction is scheduled for the end of December 2016.
Today, Industrial Park No. 2 is considered by a Singaporean company, which is the best in the world to create an economic zone.
expo zones, demonstration 150 Kazakhstani and international startups were organized at the forum.
In the capital, 97 borrowers were given loans totaling 27 billion tenge. " kairbekov.
According to the representative of the Kazakh credit company byron consolov, 217 Aktobe families will receive housing in 2015.
According to the minister, in the Agribusiness 2020 program until 2020, it is planned to increase state support by 4.5 times.
20 new industrial facilities were put into operation, 4 production were expanded, an additional 871 workplaces were created.
In addition, he got acquainted with the work of the greenhouse complex of the peasant farm "Adela," located on 16 hectares of the largest area of ​ ​ the country.
nominal cash incomes of the population in real terms increased by 1.2% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014.
It is worth noting that every year 6 billion tenge is allocated for material and technical support excluding aviation equipment.
in addition, a public garden with an area of ​ ​ 200 hectares will be created in the city.
More than 20 percent of children tested received more than 100 points.
these trends will lead to a 20 percent decline compared to 2014. "
In 1995, his father, along with his sons, founded a peasant farm "kazybek" of the rural district on wintering.
the deal worth 3 billion tenge will be financed in order to support Kazakhstan exporters within the framework of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol."
the share of machinery in mechanical engineering is 4%, "said K.Baitov.
From the industrial zone of the city of Kyzylorda, 50 hectares of land were allocated for this plant. a plot of 50 hectares was given for the industrial zone of kyzylorda .
At the same time, the courts of the capital and Almaty are 100% equipped, the Supreme Court reported.
the main goal of the production experience is to study the packaging production technology and participate in the international packaging exhibition "ipack turkey 2015."
Since 2005, 1 million square meters of housing have been provided annually, "said S. Khoroshun.
the new terminal will install 25 registration poles, 24 migration duty stations, 3 cargo conveyors.
In connection with the commissioning of the central water supply system, 26 people are provided with permanent jobs.
20 students of vocational college got acquainted with the process of manufacturing of products of Astana LLP.
production produced in the amount of more than 298 billion tenge, the volume index amounted to 98.4%.
In conclusion, the Minister thanked Mexico for supporting Kazakhstan's accession to the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 in 2013.
To date, in accordance with the Development-Production-2 program, 15 projects worth 1.6 billion tenge have been approved in the region, these projects belong to the city.
The construction of the project was carried out by the contractor Zavodstroy LLP, the total cost of the project is 817 million 109 thousand tenge.
According to him, for 20 years kha has formed a stable, powerful country.
According to him, under the agreement there is a transitional period of 6 years.
The head of state noted that from 2005 to the first half of 2014, the volume of attracted direct investment from India exceeded $200 million.
According to the results of joint work, 150 stepnogorsk residents met the day of the capital in new housing.
Press conference "Implementation of 100 concrete steps proposed by the President of Kazakhstan."
Including under the center-south project, construction and installation work is underway on the 94-kilometer diamond-Kapchagai section, the 141-kilometer Kamchagai-Taldykorgan section.
The commander of the tma-18m union, Sergey wolves, will be in orbit for 188 days.
On the scale of the armed forces of Kazakhstan 17 servicemen from 4 groups became winners.
14 people of working age are covered by active employment.
At the traditional tournament, the national team of Akmola region won 18 medals: 3 six, 5 silver and 10 bronze.
in South Kazakhstan region the share of microcredit is 97% or 8.7 billion tenge.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, together with the association "kazenergy" a deep study of all 57 oil and gas producing companies was carried out.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
According to the Minister, in accordance with the law, a mobilization plan is being developed for 5 years.
M. Lally in his report noted the efforts of the country's leadership to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 1,430 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,212 million tenge, holdings - 58,366 million tenge, akk - 2,917 million tenge.
The company has been providing its products to oil and gas companies of the country for more than 15 years.
In weight category 54 kg our fellow countryman is one of the youngest athletes.
21 billion tenge can come from tax revenues to the budget, "said the head of the Development Fund.
In this regard, more than 26 thousand square meters of housing will be commissioned.
In Germany, 60% of the first energy is exhausted before reaching the end point. in germany , 60 % of primary energy is lost on the way to the end user .
Today, the dairy treasure of the dynasty is interested in the musical instruments of a 2-year-old altair.
coverage of textbooks, financing of provision of educational and methodological complexes in the region amounted to 602 million 283 thousand tenge.
in the anniversary microdistrict, two multi-storey buildings for 126 and 72 apartments will be built through the Kazakhstan Credit Company line.
the number of firefighters working at each post is 7 and 10 people.
the number of rehabilitated increased - 315, last year there were 219 people, "he said.
Recall that Kazakhstan hosts anniversary events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
the most significant positive changes are observed by the indicator of control of local companies in the global distribution of products (60; + 31).
The State shall assume payment of a 30 per cent contribution upon entry of the object.
Thus, in the next 5 years, more than 17 thousand specialists will be trained at colleges, "he said.
Recall that the Universiade 2015 will be held in South Korean Gwangju from July 6 to 16.
first of all, the ship passes one circle along a given route at a speed of 12 knots.
In 2011, we held Asian games, built new sports facilities, updated some.
they sent him to professional lyceum No. 9 of the city of Atbasar to undergo a mooring course.
According to Maria Didichenko, who prompted the erection of the monument, 94 soldiers went from the carpet to the war.
the vast majority of permits were issued to Uzbeks - 600, Azerbaijanis - 184, Tajiks - 154, Kyrgyz - 39 and Georgian citizens - 9.
In addition, a bike ride was held on the central streets with the participation of 15 cars and 50 cyclists.
As a result of the commissioning of 770 projects, 75 thousand jobs were created and 5 trillion tenge were produced.
I call it the capital's forest, on a flat area there are 70 thousand hectares of forest.
As the leader of the nation noted, the agenda of today's meeting includes 17 issues.
The actions of children under 18 are kept in the secrets of the Center for Legal Statistics. all the crimes of teenagers under 18 remain in the center committee of legal statistics .
40% of the population live in agriculture and 22% of them work in agriculture. 40 % of the population lives on the farms , and 22 % of them work in agriculture .
The bill provides for amendments and additions to 4 codes and 20 laws. the bill provides amendments and additions to 4 codes and 20 laws .
Kazakhstan also has a low level of international debt, and our reserves exceed 100 billion dollars, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
For students of Nazarbayev intellectual schools, 140 best teachers of the republic are held, selected from the competition.
Based on the results of control measures, 10 officials were brought to various disciplinary liability.
This year, outstanding masters of choral art in 7 countries became members of the jury.
in second place are real estate certificates, over the same period more than 17 million certificates were issued.
According to the results of protecting business plans, 13 participants who passed the decisive stage presented their projects.
Following the results of the forum, 30 memoranda were signed to attract investment in projects.
In 2015, the average UNT score was 75.74 (2014 74.5), which is 1.3 points higher than in the previous year.
this tranche will be allocated for these purposes in 2015 - 3 billion tenge, in 2016 - 3 billion tenge and in 2017 - 4 billion tenge, "the Vice Minister concluded.
He has been working in a boarding school for 17 years with impaired hearing systems of plaster. she works in a boarding school for children with disabilities for more than 17 years .
It is noted that in order to finance borrowers-producers of microfinance products, the Yrys microfinance organization was financed in the amount of 500 million tenge.
In general, to date, 22 countries have signed such a document.
According to the bill, 2 different packages of medical services are provided to citizens.
production capacity of the plant - production of 336 thousand bags per shift, 80 tons of polyethylene products.
improved social and living conditions and comfort of more than a thousand residents.
This year 54.5 billion tenge was allocated for education, excluding construction, which is 11% more than last year.
Since the beginning of the year, natural population growth has amounted to 14,523 people, migration growth - 385 people.
The competition includes 24 Turkic-speaking countries.
He also spoke about the implementation of the National Plan - 100 steps.
Within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020," 10 projects worth 1.8 billion tenge were approved for 5 months of this year.
In accordance with the comprehensive plans for the development of single-industry towns, 16.6 billion tenge is allocated from the republican budget for 2015, and 7.7 billion tenge from the local budget.
The agreement was signed in the capital on October 6, 2011 by the Ministers of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan and Lithuania.
According to the schedule, 491 facilities are planned for 2014-2015.
Kazakhstan achieved the fourth and fifth Millennium Development Goals ahead of schedule in 2011.
The export potential of the grain crops market has reached 35 million tons, "the minister said.
In general, the global average reaches 60%.
9 members of the assembly contribute to improving the legislative framework of the country.
instead of cars, a small town will be built for 150 workers and 40 engineers.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
According to the results of the survey, last year the level of confidence in the efficiency showed 80%.
Since the beginning of the year, 478 women have left the project, now 236 women have contacted families.
Exploration costs in 1996-2014 amounted to $3 per square kilometer.
The championship will be held according to the Olympic system and on July 26 the winner in the final game will be determined.
One of the 100 strategic steps of modernization of the economy system is the modernization of the country's educational institution. in 100 strategic steps on modernization of kazakhstan 's economy one of the steps is the modernization of educational institutions in the country .
It is noted that 3 hectares of land were allocated from the island city for the construction of the complex.
Since the beginning of the year, 502 km of roads worth 28.5 billion tenge have been repaired in the region.
in the city there are about 32 thousand buildings and structures for heating with lump fuel.
On November 12, Astana hosted an international innovation hub on the theme: "Kazakhstan is a new global innovation hub" (techconnect.tec). of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,348 million tenge, holdings - 60 850 million tenge, accc - 2 919 million tenge.
This year, 16 units of medical equipment and 8 sanitary vehicles were seized in the region. 16 units of medical equipment and 8 units of sanitary motor transport have been bought in the region .
and the name of the hundredths and the Olympic result will be announced on August 1.
The project is designed for 5 years, which will help local executive bodies unify projects in the field of urban infrastructure.
15 units of water supply equipment provide drinking water to the population.
Since the beginning of the factory in 2011, the number of employees has increased 15 times.
40% of the funds under the "Nұrly zhol" program are aimed at solving the problems of the transport industry.
This year we celebrate the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate at the national level.	the participants were presented the video  kazakh khanate - 550 years . "
Since 2013, this format has become an important project for the exchange of experience for editors of regional gardens in the country.
As of July 21 of this year, 20 objects were put up for auction, of which 9 objects were sold.
we prepared for this for 19 years, we were able to maintain our position in the agrarian sphere.
The agreement provides for the chain "enterprise - college - student," signed by 402 students.
Of these, 4 projects worth 0.49 billion have now been launched. Tenge.
Between June 2014 and July 2015, 382 facilities were subject to privatization. during the period june 2014 - july 2015 382 objects were subject to privatization .
Recall that the 28th summer universiade was held from July 3 to 14 in gwangju (Korea), in which 12,986 athletes from 146 countries took part.
the eldest son was born in 1994, five years ago he got into the youth team, and now he has moved to the men's team of Kazakhstan.
It is planned that at the first stage the project will provide budget replenishment for 86 million tenge.
as a result, for the first time, Kazakhstan's prison rating improved by 6 positions (from 41 to 47th place).
The competition "Best Teacher of the Year - 2015" consisted of 4 stages.
"Over 20 years, we have been able to create a strong state, a new economy, a single society."
For their development, the head of state proposed a plan for the nation "100 concrete steps" for the further development of state construction, "he said.
The first 15 steps of the national plan are aimed at the development and modernization of the public service. the first 15 steps of the national plan are dedicated to the development and modernization of the civil service .
this is one of the steps that brings us closer to entering the 30 developed countries of the world.
The release of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of June 4, 1992 "On State Symbols" strengthened the independent statehood of Kazakhstan and became a new initiative on the way to the development of the country.
This competition is timed to coincide with the 35th anniversary of Iskempirov's victory at the 1980 Moscow Olympics.
up to 200 meters of shrubs were drilled along Forest Avenue, obtained through Stepnogorsk-Clean LLP.
To date, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan is considering applications sent by 12 domestic producers of kaznex invest.
As representatives of the company previously reported, 49 countries confirmed their participation in the upcoming exhibition.
In 2010, responsibility for neglect of children at night for their parents was introduced.
transfer will begin with 2% in 2017, 3% in 2018, 4% in 2019, 5% in 2020.
As of August 4 of this year, 21 objects have been put up for auction, of which 10 objects have been sold.
now water pipelines have been laid there, 250 places for livestock have been prepared, dairy wires have been sold.
Another 95 km of roads will be repaired with protective devices from the mineral emulsion mixture.
Of the required 12 thousand tons, 1636 tons were mounted, "said Mr. Rabitsky.
At the end of 2014, trade between Kazakhstan and Spain amounted to $2.7 billion.
According to experts, the reserves of world sown areas are about 1 billion hectares.
At a distance of 1000 meters, both athletes won bronze medals.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-September 2015 amounted to 106%.
Since 2010, our agency has been producing finished domestic products to foreign markets.
this is a very high collective work that has not worked in the country for the past 15 years, "he said.
The International Energy Agency will reduce global oil production spending to $100 billion in 2015.
We produce 4 thousand tons of threads per year, in addition, 70 people are involved in this.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, since the beginning of 2015, 500 books have been published in Kazakhstan dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
In total, 1998 sweets were prepared, which symbolizes the year the capital was renamed.
the total area of ​ ​ housing for the project is 54.6 thousand square meters or 747 apartments.
The ministry prepared 9 bills and they were adopted thanks to the deputies. the ministry developed 9 bills that thanks to the support of deputies were taken .
According to the results of previous trade missions, 40 Kazakhstani manufacturers took part and agreements were reached in the amount of $46 million.
The festival is held every four years in 13 sports.
As of October 5 of this year, 21 objects have been put up for auction, of which 10 objects have been sold.
nitrogen and hydrogen supplies under outsourcing conditions are planned for 2016.
Our business community has concluded contracts and memoranda worth $5 billion.
1,700 hectares on the banks of the shardara river can go to agricultural needs.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
This year, the draft budget for 2016 excludes capital expenditures to support information services. this year , the draft budget for 2016 doesn 't include capital costs .
this center is involved in the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state in 5 institutional reforms.
According to the head of state, over 10 years, about 5 billion dollars of Japanese investments were attracted to our economy.
On October 2, a plenary meeting of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy will be held.
The agreement was signed on October 7, 2010 during the official visit of Serbian President Boris Tadić to Kazakhstan.
As of September 7 of this year, 21 objects have been put up for auction, of which 10 objects have been sold.
The Republic of Kazakhstan submitted to it a pilot project of 10 States, which was submitted on its own initiative in July 2014.
It should be noted that to date 47 countries and 7 international organizations have confirmed their participation in the "expo-2017."
The meeting discussed issues of cooperation in the field of investment and the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
Since 2005, the inflow of direct investment from Italy has amounted to $6 billion.
the remaining 104 km will be completed by the end of 2016, "the company said.
increasing capacity to 20 million tons per year. "
Starting this year, the development of single-industry towns will be carried out as part of the Unified Regional Development Program until 2020.
On August 28, the head of state met with Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, who arrived in Kazakhstan on an official visit.
In turn, Turkey has allocated $970 million of Kazakh foreign direct investment, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said.
food, including food, totaled $285 billion.
To date, 4 cities have been selected, these are shymkent, taraz, temirtau, lisakovsk.
To date, 49 countries have confirmed their participation, and we hope that 100 countries will participate. nowadays 49 countries have confirmed their participation , we expect more than 100 countries .
The ratification of the document signed in the capital on September 9, 2014 provides for the regulation of the work of the supervisory authorities over these movements and the issuance of documents.
According to the results of last year, contracts were concluded in the Shortandy district with 13 families with 60 members. at the end of last year in shortandy district 13 families in which 60 people concluded social contract of activation .
The entire facility will be ready by the end of 2016, "said Mr. Rabitsky.
In 2015, the ministry received 8 infrastructure projects under the "Nұrly zhol."
since in the center on the 200 of patients the number of patients is two to three times more.
This company provides electricity to 9 fields through 11 substations.
this is a company "cersanit," which implements a project for the production of ceramic granite in the amount of 100 million euros.
This check was carried out during winter training in the first half of 2015.
According to dsadm, 830 employees of these organizations were involved in providing public services to villagers.
already, builders have removed 1 million 150 thousand cubic meters of soil and completed 30 percent of the work.
5 investment projects on export-import trade operations and contract logistics have been launched.
As the Minister noted, this issue will be considered at a meeting in Moscow on November 30 of this year.
On June 7, 2012, with the support of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Afghanistan was awarded the status of state observer with the Shu.
On the basis of subsidizing interest rates on loans, a loan portfolio of 1 billion tenge was formed.
The center has been operating since June 2014.
In regions such as Kostanay and Karaganda, 48% of SMEs are headed by women, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
in addition, the national team of Akmola region won 3 silver, 2 bronze.
on the section of the Astana-Temirtau route (157 km) and diamond-Kapshagai (94 km).
Talgat Bigeldinov was born on August 5, 1922 in the village of Maybalyk (now - Akkol district of Akmola region).
to the republican budget - 2,730 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 1,355 million tenge, holdings - 60,850 million tenge, accc - 2,919 million tenge, the report said.
August 30 is a significant day, a special historical day of the whole state and the Kazakh people. august 30 - a significant date , a special day in the history of the whole country and all the people of kazakhstan .
More than 40 types of social assistance are provided, 7.3 billion tenge is allocated annually from the city budget.
In 1992, thanks to the implementation of new diplomatic relations, a modern sheet of our relations was opened.
in total, there are 164 voluntary fire brigades in the district, which includes 641 people.
According to him, both plants received a capacity of 400 thousand cubic meters.
101 thousand square meters were introduced, which is 88% of the plan.
They are faced with a lot of work to implement 5 reforms and "100 steps."
more than 55 thousand children are engaged in scientific and technical programs in organizations of secondary general and additional education.
these issues are relevant in 5 institutional reforms, "the expert said.
15 years ago, we created a national fund where profits from raw materials were collected.
plus 230 thousand tons of rail beams, corners, channels per year.
It is noted that a total of 1783 medical services were provided, of which 1,347 patients were transported, 335 consultations were issued and 101 operations were carried out.
Also, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan will have to develop 40 billion tenge by the end of the year.
In addition, in 2016 it is planned to join the ranks of the party with more than 100 thousand new members.
the total birth rate was 21.93 (22.40) born per 1000 people, "the report said.
In turn, the head of Greece congratulated Kazakhstan on joining the WTO and the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Until the summer of 2015, the company operated at 100% capacity, currently - 70%.
In 2017, the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition will be held, while the relevance of the topic of tourism will increase.
It is noted that 830 employees of these organizations were involved in providing public services to villagers.
on the section of the Astana-Temirtau route (157 km) and diamond-Kapshagai (94 km).
This year, the regional commission considered 124 applications, 26 social projects became winners of the qualifying stage of the competition.
secondly, the time of the guarantee was changed, the top 30 will be in the amount of thousands of aek or 60 million tenge.
Since the beginning of the year, 4763 objects have been legalized for a total of 71 billion 313 million tenge.
the largest number of state educational grants due to the university is 68% of the total number of grants - in technical and technological specialties.
in fact, as of July 14, 164 objects were released, of which 82 objects were implemented.
Since 2008, the group has been investing $300 million and actively participating in the economic life of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In total, 80 festive events were held in Astana, in which more than 700 thousand guests took part.
398,374 citizens of Kazakhstan work in them, which is 92.2% of the total number of employees.
The total area of ​ ​ the shopping and entertainment center was 14,861,6 square meters. meters.
The republican state institution "National Academic Library" in Astana was created on April 23, 2004 by Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 461.
today, October 8, Dzhaksybekov will meet with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia.
to date, 20,258,2 tons of solid fuel (50%), 4,043,5 tons of liquid fuel (51%) have been accumulated.
the winner was awarded a prize of 150 thousand dollars, a championship belt, a car and a tituyak trophy.
the area of ​ ​ industrial buildings is 8 thousand square meters, the area of ​ ​ additional buildings is 10 thousand square meters.
Foreign direct investment in the oil and gas sector of Kazakhstan annually exceeds 3 billion dollars, "- said U. Karabalin.
Athletes from 15 regions of Kazakhstan will take part in competitions, the report says.
Thus, according to the results of FIID in 2014, the processed export of Kazakhstan amounted to 78.2 billion tenge.
and in one of the largest pavilions with an area of ​ ​ 1,083 square meters.
This project is being implemented by the South Korean company lg chemical, which will be launched in 2019.
Currently, it is planned to allocate 501 million tenge in the city budget for the purchase of another 97 cars.
in fact, as of August 4, 181 objects were withdrawn, of which 83 objects were implemented.
I was in Kazakhstan in 2009, it was a very joyful visit. i have been in kazakhstan once before in 2009 and had a very pleasant time here .
On the day of arrival at the scales on October 9, a press conference will be held on the results of the work done.
During the work of the mobilization groups, 1,262 settlements were covered, which is 42% higher than planned.
According to the deputy, the adoption of the new law is a timely step, which passed 15 years after the adoption of the law.
In 2015, 12 investment projects worth 5.6 billion tenge were implemented in the field of energy and housing and communal services.
According to A. Nurtazin, 80% of production - 250 tons of honey - to the domestic market of Kazakhstan, the rest is exported.
17 objects and securities worth 636.5 million tenge were legalized, "the report said.
In fact, as of October 5, 197 objects were released, of which 95 objects were implemented.
For example, we extended the lease of land for foreign investors to 25 years. for example , we have extended the term of the lease of land to foreign investors up to 25 years .
Large-scale work has begun on the development of the State program for the development of weapons and the military-industrial complex until 2020.
Since January 2015, amendments have been made to the law "On the development of minerals and natural resources."
socially, more than 40 per cent of the budget is directed towards education and health. in social terms , more than 40 % of the budget is directed to the sphere of development of education and health .
Kazakhstan 2050 "has the task of becoming one of the developed and competitive 30 states of the world.
the first legacy left in Soviet times was adopted in 1993. the first we inherited from the soviet era , the second was adopted in 1993 , was a kind of compromise , the other definitions are not found , between past and future , " he has stressed .
In fact, as of September 7, 192 objects were released, including 87 objects.
In Almaty region, where the Ilsk-Balkhash natural reserve, gold-and-steel natural park are located, 23 loans totaling 116.5 million tenge were financed.
international experts will conduct research in the historical complex of Turkestan until November 13.
1 . health camp "young house builder," occupying a place along the "apple trees" in the botanical area
In general, the project is estimated at 24.4 billion tenge, 365 people will work here.
However, 87 additional amendments were made to the draft code by the Senate and returned to parliament on September 17.
Foreign clothing and footwear and basic necessities were seized from 6 socially disadvantaged families.
It should be noted that as of July 1, 2015, the plan amounted to 1 billion 210 million 407 thousand tenge, but the investment program was implemented for 521 million 642 thousand tenge (43%).
Our magazine newspapers are published in 11 languages, theaters operate in 6 languages. our newspapers and magazines are published in 11 languages , theaters operate in 6 languages , including english , tatar , azerbaijani , korean , uigur , german , ukrainian , uzbek , dungan language .
firstly, it is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which this year marks 20 years.
Recall that the exercises of the peacekeeping forces of the irreconcilable brotherhood have been held annually since 2012.
145 billion tenge is allocated from the National Fund for the construction and purchase of rental housing in 2015-2016. the national fund provided 145 billion tenge for the construction and acquisition of rental housing in 2015-2016 years .
To date, grain acceptance in the region is carried out by 60 bakery enterprises, which have accepted 1.8 million tons of grain.
this year it is planned to receive 259 head of cattle.
Winner in the race up to 100 kg among men.
According to our calculations, 10 kw per hour will be enough to fully equip the poultry farm, "he said.
and for the main countries of the world, the standard rate is 5%, "said J. Aitzhanova.
The reconstruction of the bypass road of the city of Petropavlovsk with a length of 11 km has also begun.
Recall that the final of the Tank Biathlon competition will be held on August 15.
As of June 8 of this year, 1,109 applicants were assigned pensions and benefits.
The launch of the facility is scheduled for August 15 of this year.
they expressed gratitude for the special seminar "Caribbean future energy," which was held in the capital in 2014 in Caribbean countries on the occasion of the Expo.
To date, five peugeot models are available at Kostanay production sites: peugeot 301, 2008, 3008, 508 and peugeot partner.
The export operation in the amount of 7 billion tenge will be financed from the National Fund as part of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol."
As part of the project, 30 concerts were held with good success with the participation of stars of the national classic scene in 20 cities of the country.
In order to implement the regional financing program, the Mayor's Office of Astana allocated 500 million tenge, the Development Fund - 1 billion tenge.
For the last 30 years he worked as a teacher of the Kazakh language and literature.
It is noted that in the first half of this year 20 projects were put into operation, 2 thousand permanent jobs were created.
In October, the light processing plant will take part in the 7th international exhibition in Uzbekistan "Road construction and communal equipment - uzcomak 2015."
250 jobs will be created during the construction, and after the launch of the plant - 150 permanent jobs.
work has already been completed on 95% of the foundation of the warehouse of finished products necessary for production.
over the past two years, 123 thousand teachers have completed various improvement courses.	a. sarinzhipov informed that over the recent two years 123 thousand teachers had different training courses .	3,15
As of June 4, 39 projects of large business entities were approved for a total of 46 billion 442.3 million tenge.	as of june 4 , the bodies approved 39 projects totaling 46 billion 442.3 million tenge .	3,16
In total, about 5 thousand tree seedlings were planted in Turkestan, the number of green spaces in the holy region was increased.	to date , around 5 thousand seedlings have been planted .	3,16
The population by 2025 will be 8, by 2050 - 9 billion people.	according to the un forecasts in 2025 the world 's population will exceed 8 billion people , and in 2050 - 9 billion people .	3,16
Obtaining a license to train phd doctors of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan took place in June 2014.	the ministry of education and science licensed almau for doctors phd in june 2014 .	3,16
therefore, the issue of security has become quite relevant, especially since 15 technical missions of the magate were carried out.	nevertheless , there were 15 technical missions of the iaea .	3,16
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
exposition dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
It is noted that the short-term economic indicator in January-May 2015 compared to January-May 2014 amounted to 102%.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
expenditures in the field of health care increased 1.7 times over 5 years (38.8 billion tenge).
Akmol Maxim, who was part of the national team, criticized his rivals by weight up to 71 kg and won with a clear advantage.
Therefore, 63 and 64 steps in 100 specific steps are aimed at the development of science, "he said.
As of July 27 of this year, 1,473 applicants were assigned pensions and benefits.
According to the results of 5 months of this year, we see a significant increase in the socio-economic indicators of the region. for 5 months , all socio-economic indicators have positive dynamics .
In addition, from July 1, 2015, new construction standards (LCD) were created in Kazakhstan with the participation of the introduced project.
the bill provides for a reduction of 152 permits or 39% of the total.
In 2015, it is planned to overhaul 9 power units, 59 power boilers and 47 turbines.
The expedition dedicated to ancient history will end in Taraz on October 9, 2015.
only 3% of entrepreneurs work in industry.
The Department of Consumer Protection carried out decontamination of 223 individual residential buildings.
In addition, B. Saparbayev will get acquainted with the life of the maternity hospital, launched in 2014.
In 2006, the idea was born, in 2013-2014 it spread throughout the world and regions, "he said.
As of August 10 of the current year, 1,653 applicants were assigned pensions and benefits.
297 doctors and bachelors are accommodated in rural outpatient medical organizations.
To date, it is planned to implement 16 projects worth 101 billion tenge, which will provide 850 jobs.
In the course of active work, the turbo business entities concluded about 100 joint agreements with Kazakhstan, Middle East and far-flung foreign companies.
however, real revenues decreased by 40-50%, respectively, oil companies decreased by 38%.
Since 2014, there has been a strengthening of the dollar against other currencies.
therefore, I am very interested in seeing the facilities that were built in 2017.
during the reporting period, 190 laws were submitted to both chambers, 113 of them were adopted.
The reception of applications for participation in the event will last from August 1 to September 1, 2015.
40 plants of various scales are planned to be located here.
To date, 34 major projects have been implemented, 24 are under implementation, in accordance with contracts and agreements concluded at yesterday's business forum, dozens more projects are planned for the future, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this year alone, 30 such projects will be implemented.
The Turkish parliament - the great national assembly - consists of one chamber, 550 deputies.
60% of employees with a bachelor's degree are interested. enterprises show their interest , 60 % work in enterprises that have completed a bachelor degree and work for several years .
The total cost of the project amounted to 34,186, 7 million tenge. pineapples.
the library services are used annually by more than 25 thousand readers.
The film of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is devoted to the history of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
He also noted that 18 gyms and a number of mosques have been built in Kazakhstan.
the main winner will become the owner of the cup of the president of the country and a cash prize in the amount of 250 thousand tenge.
Participants compete in 25 sports for the title of strongest. athletes fight for the title of the strongest in 25 sports .
For the period from June 2014 to September 2015, 21 objects were planned for sale.
From 2001 to 2008 - Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
with a growth of 150 people, in the katano-pine region - 200 people, in the eldest - 300 people.
according to preliminary data, 200 thousand people were affected by the earthquake.
Currently in our country there are 200 enterprises related to Italian capital.
it is worth noting that the weight of one bull of this breed exceeds 800 kg.
According to him, over the past four years, the state has invested more than $5 billion.
As part of this course, 72 sergeants from the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan arrived in the city of Shchuchinsk, Akmola region.
As A. Yessimov noted, today 53 countries and 11 international organizations have confirmed their participation in the exhibition.
We plan to complete the construction of this facility in 2017, "said Musabaev.
24 instructions were sent to enterprises and organizations for awareness-raising.
70% of the project worth $131 million was financed by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan. "
In the weight of 86 kg, Ahmediyar Amanjolov won a silver award in low kick.
100 concrete steps announced by the head of state. "
The procession will begin in 20 cities and settlements of the country.
For 8 months of this year 105 memoranda on the development of local content worth 309.8 billion tenge were signed. for 8 months this year 105 memoranda of cooperation on the development of local content in the total amount of 309.8 billion tenge have been signed .
Of these, 36 projects worth 18.5 billion tenge have already been launched.
as a result, price indicators differ more than 2 times in the regions of the country.
in the construction market of our country, our products reach 60% of all goods, "said e.rakhumbayev.
In 2012-2014, bilateral trade exceeded US $7 billion.
We plan to launch it before 2017, "said A. Sayabaev.
To date, 49 countries and 11 international organizations have officially confirmed their participation in expo 2017.
Representatives of 14 countries competed for rating points required to obtain a license.
It is planned to attract about 11 billion dollars of investment and create 300 new jobs.
for five days, young athletes competed in 10 different weight categories.
Thus, it is planned to deliver 176.5 tons of products totaling 98 million tenge.
It is noted that since January of this year Zimbabwe has been the chairman of the African Union and unites 55 states of its continent.
Vessels of varying severity were tested on the water for 6 days.
If we talk about guarantees in Kazakhstan, today there are about 1,400 guarantees totaling 26 billion tenge.
The World Health Organization has proposed vaccination coverage of at least 95%.
Today, 36 centers have been opened in Kazakhstan, where mothers can find temporary shelter with children, psychologists, teachers and children can get used to society together with them.
The head of state was presented with the state of economic work engaged in landscaping the city since 2000.
The Governor of the region invited the Ambassador and Indian entrepreneurs to the investment business forum on November 27 of this year.
when adding weight of about 900-1000 grams per day, the weight of 15-month-old calves reaches 450-480 kg.
The monument was unveiled in 1980 and has been studied for about 35 years.
In addition, since the beginning of the year, 3 draft regional maps have been put into operation.
In the first half of the year, with the creation of 274 new jobs, two projects worth 5.4 billion tenge will be completed.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 241 objects are scheduled for sale.
In 1941, when the war began, she was already a 14-year-old girl. in 1941 , when the war started , amina was 14 years old .
"Romanian Cultural Center" Bukovina "" was created in 2013.
As for documents of state bailiffs, the amount of debt to the state amounted to 227 billion tenge. as for the documents that are in the state bailiffs , the amount of duty to the state is 227 billion tenge .
According to the mayor, the budget of the city department of internal affairs was approved in the amount of 20.1 billion tenge, which is 2.7 billion tenge more than in 2014.
Currently, there are 19 bills of various levels of consideration in Parliament.
loans under the agriculture program are issued in the amount of 1 million to 6 million tenge.
the share of milk processing is 40% of the total production.
on this report, we defended the changes between 2011 and 2015.
6 central offices of enterprises were settled in Shymkent, 4 offices in Kyzylorda.
double in absolute weight category (over 70 kg).
By 2020, seaport capacity will be about 25 million tons.
at the same time, there is a need to obtain 4 million cubic meters of soil.
According to the Governor's office, 480 million tenge was invested in the construction of this system from the local budget.
Erbolat Dossaev noted that the bill approved a complete list of 481 permits.
on republican property - 10, on communal property - 91, on acca - 58, on holdings - 45.
this year about 16 kg of wheat per hectare will be obtained here.
Kazakhstan aims to become one of the 30 developing countries. kazakhstan has set an ambitious goal - to enter the top 30 developed countries .
The Olympiad was attended by 203 high school students from Kazakhstan, Romania, Russia, Yakutia.
According to preliminary data, they have already received orders for 120 million tenge.
It is worth noting that the grand opening of the sports facility is expected on August 14.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 11 projects were included in the second five-year plan of the industrialization map.
The Development Fund and the Governor's Office of the capital allocated 300 million tenge each for the implementation of this program.
In 2015, Saryarkaavroprom plans to produce more than 3.5 thousand cars.
n. According to Nazarbayev, about 300 Kazakhstanis of Ukrainian nationality live in Kazakhstan.
The presidential press service plans to launch a new Facebook page from October 23. on october 23 the press office of the president launches a new official profile in facebook - akordabaspasoz .
12 refrigerating chambers store 2 thousand tons of apples from autumn to May.
the growth of agricultural producers with the creation of a customs union amounted to 27%.
June 4, 1992 - it was on this day that the state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan were adopted.
The work is 80% complete, the foundation concreting is 20% complete.
In January-June 2015, enterprises of the region produced products worth 470.6 billion tenge.
in Mangistau region, oil production did not decrease, but increased by 2%.
billboards depicting the participants of the 2016 Olympics will be posted in all regions.
Of these, 150 graduates study on foreign training grants.
Recall that in December 2015, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will take part in the climate of the summit in Paris.
By the end of the year, we must bring this figure to 100%, "said Arstanov.
According to him, the changes in the bill relate to the green economy cover 10 legislative acts.
The mutual turnover of the EAEU countries in agricultural and food products increased by 60%.
In addition, according to the deputy chairman of the board, in 2014 products worth 1 trillion 402 billion tenge were produced.
The premiere took place in 1944, where critics noted masterpieces of Kazakh music.
By the beginning of August, repair work was completed on 4 power units, 30 boiler houses and 20 turbines.
He noted that under the program it is planned to create 395 thousand jobs.
In 2008, a law was adopted that has no analogues in the world - the law "On the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
Today, the world system of biosphere reservers has 651 facilities from 120 states.
Legislative activity in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the definition of the head of state will begin on September 2.
this is a taikazan from a series of "field treasure" coins with a face value of 50 tenge, a brown from a series of "cosmos" coins, commemorative "kyzylorda" and "Ural" coins from a series of "city of Kazakhstan" coins.
holders of gold medals will receive 200 thousand tenge, silver prize - 150 thousand tenge and bronze prize - 100 thousand tenge.
Akim drew attention to the quality of work and completion of construction work on the site by August 25.
Recall that negotiations on accession to the WTO lasted 19 years.
The first congress of leaders of world and traditional religions was held on September 23-24, 2003 in the capital at the initiative of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the same time, within the framework of the Agribusiness 2020 state program, this project fell into the program of subsidizing the remuneration rate.
Given that 48% of Kazakhstan's interstate rivers are in the water, such regional measures are very important. kazakhstan now has 48 % of the water of the rivers in the region , so regional activities are very important .
Until 2020, such language training courses will be canceled, "said the president of the center.
According to the Vice Minister, 58 letters were received to participate in the specialized exhibition.
- This trend lasted 19 years, and now Kazakhstan has become a full-fledged participant in the world economy system.
10% of products are exported to Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
At the same time, 591 thousand tons of coal and 54 thousand tons of fuel oil have already been prepared.
The V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions was attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
It is noted that this is 17.8% more than in January-July 2014.
According to him, this year, as part of the action, the city branch supported 1,400 metropolitan children.
According to Alisher Pirmetov, First Deputy Chairman of the Board, the annual wage fund has been reduced by 150 million tenge.
in the history of independent Kazakhstan, the country's national anthem was twice - in 1992 and 2006.
We expect that in 2016 the inflation rate will be close to the corridor indicator. in 2016 we expect that inflation will be closer to the upper boundary of the corridor .
"expo town" is located 100 meters from the pavilion Expo 2017.
18 countries are in close contact to share experiences.
the building will be located next to sports school No. 1 of Semey.
100 Steps "is the clearest algorithm for implementing five institutional reforms.
of which 21.1 billion tenge was allocated for investments and 20 billion tenge for replenishment of working capital.
To date, more than 50 thousand people are covered in the industry of Almaty.
13 thousand young people who first applied to the employment center were employed without the use of state support measures.
the system of preschool institutions in the city increased by 95 units.
We have a budget of 10-15 thousand dollars for 20 projects.
70% of the produced products are planned to be brought to the domestic market, 30% - for export.
Only 66% of the republican archives have specialized employees, "said the Secretary of State.
As part of the large-scale national project "100 Steps," the national museum presented a number of exhibition projects.
The head of state announced 5 institutional reforms to ensure sustainable growth.
Also under the program "Housing and communal services 2020" allocated 575 million tenge for 17 infrastructure projects, for which 229 jobs are provided.
One of the 100 steps outlined by the President of Kazakhstan is the search for a start-up partner in the market of energy service companies. one of 100 steps marked by the president of kazakhstan - to define a strategic partner among the energy service companies .
every year Kazakhstan requires more than 150 thousand tons of these products per year.
Over the past 10 years, the growth of the economy in Kazakhstan has been closely associated with the manufacturing industry.
repair work covered 2.2 thousand km of roads, 98% of construction work was completed.
In 1982 he graduated from the Leningrad Agricultural Institute with a degree in agronomy.
Young Kazakhstani authors between the ages of 18 and 35 can take part in the project.
secondly, constitutional postulates on Kazakh identity were hidden within the framework of 5 reforms.
It is noted that the national championship was held in 59 posts.
80% of traffic lights located in the country are products of Svetkom.
One of its main tasks is to become one of the 30 competitive countries.
a gold house with 290 seats. "
the share of companies with private investors will be brought to 50%.
Thus, 5 shares of regional technology parks and 2 industry design bureaus will be put up for auction.
Of these, 95 projects worth 43.78 billion tenge have now been introduced.
First, within 10 days, entrepreneurs took part in training sessions with the participation of foreign and domestic business coaches.
It is an important area for Kazakhstan to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
In addition, since 2014, 925 people with disabilities have been employed in the region.
a total of 133 schools will operate in the new school year. tastemirova.
Under the program of lending to milk reception points, 3 projects worth 20.7 million tenge are being implemented.
Also, the head of the department recalled the innovations in 2015.
In 2009, at the initiative of the Head of State, a conference was organized, "said Z. Korganbekov.
He noted that this year it is planned to implement 14 projects worth 38.9 billion tenge.
the existing base allows you to open a football academy in 300 places. The existing base of ust-kamenogorsk permits creating a football academy for 300 seats.
Since 2010, we have been implementing an instrument in the humanitarian procurement market.
The next meeting of the intergovernmental commission is planned to be held in 2017 in the Pakistani Islamic Republic.
a plan of 100 steps has already been adopted for their implementation.
Also, the program was attended by 80 projects in the amount of loans of 3,676,4 million tenge.
the planned annual production volume will be 23 thousand tons of confectionery products per year.
In total, 722 projects worth 98.8 billion tenge have been approved since the beginning of the program.
This year, a primary granary with a capacity of 40 thousand tons was commissioned.
K.Mami congratulated the ambassador on the national holiday - the day of the revolution, which is celebrated in Egypt on July 23.
This contract is valid from 2015 until the end of 2019.
expo is held in developed countries at more than 120 speeds. more than 120 years the exhibition expo is held in the most developed countries .
From 2017 to 2030, it is planned to plant 9,820 hectares of green spaces.
So, according to the head of state, tenge decreased from $115 in June last year to $48.5.
Recall, on June 4, 1992, for the first time, new state symbols of independent Kazakhstan were approved.
The entrepreneur received funds for the project worth about 11 million tenge from Sberbank Russia.
in general, to date, 35% of all construction and installation work has been completed.
In 2012, it is planned to bring food production to the humanitarian procurement market. in 2012 we began to promote the food industry to market of the humanitarian purchases .
In 2014, 23 natural fires occurred on a total area of ​ ​ 565 hectares.	in 2014 , there were 23 wildfires , a total area - 565 hectares .	3,29
The building houses 54 study rooms, 24 laboratories equipped with new educational facilities.	the building houses 54 classrooms , 24 laboratories equipped with the latest school equipment .	3,29
the current law was adopted on August 30, 1995 at a popular referendum, it is a public holiday.	the current constitution was adopted on august 30 , 1995 at the national referendum , this day is a public holiday .	3,29
In 2015, we had a good experience in attracting tourists to Milan.
17 objects and securities worth KZT636.5 mln were legalized
the project provides for obligations to increase the share of local content from 32% to 44%.
moderators conducted theoretical and practical classes for students for 6 days.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the volume of trade between the two countries amounted to 21 billion dollars.
It is worth noting that the city polyclinic No. 10 of the capital was built according to the program "100 schools-100 hospitals."
According to the instructions of the Head of State, the sown area of ​ ​ sugar beets has been increased to 4 thousand hectares.
It is planned to plant 23 plots with an area of ​ ​ 30 hectares in the Astana agglomeration, the report said.
Since 2005, 74% of all foreign direct investment has been attracted to the refinancing industry. 74 % of all foreign direct investment was attracted in manufacturing industry during spfiid 's years since 2005 .
On August 27, Nursultan Nazarbayev is scheduled to meet with the prosecutors general of the CIS countries and SHU member states.
10 billion tenge is provided for the creation of the laboratory, for 2015-2016 - 3 billion tenge, for 2017 - 4 billion tenge. in order to create new laboratories , the state provided 10 billion tenge , including 3 billion tenge for 2015-2016 years , 4 billion tenge - for 2017 .
According to the agency, to date, 928 memoranda worth 1.4 trillion tenge have been signed.
the company will produce 250 thousand tons of butadiene per year. " sydykov.
As a result, green spaces in Shymkent increased by 5 thousand hectares.
According to him, today routes No. 100, No. 101, No. 102, No. 103 and No. 104 have been identified and agreed.
Of these, 8 projects worth 11.08 billion tenge have been launched to date.
Of these, 28 projects worth 11.2 billion tenge have been launched to date.
Of these, 48 projects worth 12.83 billion tenge have been launched to date.
Of these, 27 projects worth 34.18 billion tenge have been launched to date.
Of these, 31 projects worth 5.89 billion tenge have been launched to date.
Of these, 26 projects worth 17.63 billion tenge have now been introduced.
16 applicant families received diplomas to participate in the competition.
Recall that the first Eurasian Forum of Radiologists was held in 2005 in Astana.
A cat with eo will be received for 3512 commodity items in Kazakhstan.
in power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning - 36 billion tenge and amounted to 71.7% compared to the corresponding period of last year.
next year we plan to restructure the economy, reducing public investment to 70 billion tenge. we expect to restructure the economy reducing state investment to 70 billion tenge .
In 1995, a constitution was adopted at a popular referendum. "
the winners were 12 military personnel who passed several tests, proving their combat readiness, endurance and reliability.
Today, the right of national self-determination enshrined in international law was realized 550 years ago. the right to self-determination was implemented 550 years ago .
To date, 3 projects have been introduced, 5 projects will be implemented before the end of the year. to date , 3 projects have been commissioned , 5 projects will be completed before the end of the year .
compared to the fact that previously used pipes withstood a maximum of 20 years.
To date, the farm has collected about 700 tons of apples.
the mini-center is open under the state program "chicken," the total cost of which amounted to 1 million tenge, funds were allocated from the republican budget.
It is planned to implement 5 more projects in 2015, "akim of Mangistau region said.
For 20 years, kha has been preparing such a society, "he said.
during this time, 350 devices were delivered to the country.
30% of the bills submitted for consideration - 16 bills - relate to the new economic policy. about 30 % received bills - 16 bills - concern the new economic policy .
For the period from June 2014 to June 2015, 19 objects are planned for sale.
Since 2016, this figure has increased to 5 points.
In May, the business register recorded the growth of small active enterprises in 10 areas.
By October 1, 2015, depositors must contact the bank to re-issue the deposit.
We gathered 49 days before the 21st conference in Paris. we have gathered here today , exactly 49 days remain before the beginning of the 21th conference on climate change in paris , where it is expected to adopt a new global agreement .
In 2015, as part of the implementation of state and sectoral programs, employment of 642 people is provided.
According to the deputy, 93% of respondents know who to turn to in case of corruption.
innovation (72; + 13) and business competitiveness (79; + 12).
some farms in the region received a crop per hectare of up to 750 centners, while the weight of one beet root was 6.5-7 kilograms.
In particular, the project "smart clinic" was put into operation in city clinic No. 4.
The event will be attended by 100 countries, 10 international organizations, 10 innovative companies.
The company is going to purchase new technologies worth more than 50 million tenge.
this is 2 times more than government investment in the previous 9 years.
In 2013-2014 alone, bilateral trade reached $2 billion.
This year, the Eurasian group plans to invest 800 million tenge in the improvement and social development of the kostanay.
the design capacity of araz will be 430 thousand tons of metal products per year.
As previously reported, a total of 178 mobilization groups consisting of 441 employees have been created in Kazakhstan.
Close relations between Kazakhstan and Indonesia began in 2012 after the meeting of the two heads of state. the close economic cooperation between indonesia and kazakhstan started in 2012 .
South Kazakhstan (plus 122 active companies) and Karaganda region (plus 90) are leading.
when reaching full capacity, the complex will be able to attract up to 57 thousand tons of flour per year.
2015 was a historical year for kha, this year was the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Work continues on the direction of new projects, this year it is planned to launch 100 projects, the minister said.
the total natural growth rate was 14.26 (14.60) people per 1000 people.
Currently, 27 professions are winners of the "folk brand."
for example, balloon gas in Mangistau region is 65 tenge, in Almaty and Zhambyl regions - 150 tenge. for example , bottled gas sold in mangistau region on 65 tenge per kilogram , and in almaty and zhambyl regions - 150 tenge .
In total, the best 15 works were selected, ten students who wrote essays received grants to study at the Chinese University of Mining and Technology, five participants received a ticket to EXPO 2017.
Prommashcomplekt LLP is a plant for the production of railway wheels and a rotary mechanism, which in 2010 was approved for opening within the framework of FIIR.
in total, there are 183 dairy processing enterprises in Kazakhstan that provide the market for domestic products.
all these changes are put into effect on January 1, 2018.
The reorientation of budget funds was carried out with an increase in local budget expenditures by 1 billion tenge.
today, 42% of small and medium-sized businesses are headed by women. i 'd like to note that nowadays 42 % of small and medium-sized businesses in our country are headed by women .
Over the 12 years of the existence of residential construction bank, not a single key to the system has appeared.
30 representatives of the region arrived in the capital to meet with the general contractors of EXPO-2017.
On October 16, a meeting of the heads of state of the CIS will be held under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan.
In 1925, at the Expo in Paris, Emir Kashaubaev with the song "Balkhadisha" created the world and dissolved the country.
To date, 100 billion tenge has been spent, the amount agreed with the contractors is 500 billion tenge, "he said.
Until December, 3 million pieces of pine will be planted in the green belt.
The total cost of the project amounted to 34,186, 7 million tenge. pineapples.
According to the regional education department, 674 schools will accept students.
For the period from June 2014 to July 2015, the actual sale of 20 objects is planned.
42 were registered in Almaty, 25 buyers were registered in the act. "
the largest number of approved projects falls on the cities of aksai (47), ekibastuz (23), zyryanovsk (22).
50 yurts, concert scenes, sports grounds for competitions are installed on the square.
to date, 95 per cent of world trade in trade and services is regulated by policy. today the wto controls about 95 % of total world trade in goods and services .
For the period from June 2014 to July 2015, 19 objects are planned for sale.
the courts of the capital and Almaty are covered by 100% audio and video recording.
It should be noted that more than 20 thousand Romanians live in Kazakhstan.
For the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 21 objects were planned for sale.
5 kindergartens returned to communal property, "the deputy akim said.
In 2016, the company plans to produce 20 thousand tons of poultry meat per year.	the company plans to reach maximum capacity in 2016 - 20 thousand tons of poultry meat per year .	3,40
about 88 thousand people are treated annually in urban health care institutions.	every year , more than 88 thousand people get treatment .	3,40
The plant for the production of 500 thousand tons of sulfur per year has no analogues in the CIS countries.	the plant produces 500 thousand tons of sulfuric acid plant per year and it is the only one of its kind in the cis .	3,40
since the daily delivery range is 14.1 km (from 7 to 16 kilometers).	thus , the average length of the delivery area is 14.1 kilometers per day ( between 7 and 16 km sectional branches ) .	3,40
By the way, the generation of heroes "was created on January 18, 2011.
Also, a school for 120 places worth 346 million tenge is being built here.
today the volume of cargo transportation in this area has increased 3 times.
a total of 5 forums are planned, including in Astana, Petropavlovsk, Shymkent.
In accordance with the schedule of houses in the city of miners on November 4, full heating is planned.
For the period from June 2014 to October 2015, 21 objects were planned for sale.
60% of the financing is provided by the baiterek holding (loan kdb).
I want to note that 2015 will be an important step in the relations between our countries.	i emphasize that 2015 is very important year in the relations of our countries .	3,41
By the end of the year, 4,700 families will be provided with housing, the akim said.
holders of gold medals will receive 200 thousand tenge, silver prize - 150 thousand tenge and bronze prize - 100 thousand tenge.
Over the past 10 years, agricultural production has increased 4 times. over the past 10 years , the volume of agricultural production has increased by almost 4 times .
131 unemployed persons in the target group are employed in social jobs.
We are currently working within the framework of the bilateral plan adopted in 2013. we are working within the bilateral action plan , adopted in 2013 .
To date, this figure is 25%, "said B. Saparbayev.
The tournament will be held over three days, that is, October 16, 17 and 18.
It should be noted that the new school is designed for 1200 places, and is also equipped with modern educational equipment and has special classes of chemistry, physics, biology.
by the decree of the head of state on August 9, 2015 A.Esim. appointed chairman of the board of the national company Astana Expo - 2017.
45 generations of the central military orchestra were selected from our country to participate in the international event.
The height of the monument is 15 meters, it consists of two ripe arches with Kazakh national ornaments.
V. Nuryshev praised the work of the Kazakh student community in China, uniting about 11 thousand young people, created with the support of the embassy.
to do this, the number of prisoners should decrease to about 41 thousand.
The agreed production capacity between Kazakhstan and China amounted to $40 billion.
In addition, Kazatomprom will allocate 800 million tenge to the regional budget for the construction of new social facilities.
On August 26, the Prime Minister of the Pakistani Islamic Republic of Nawaz Sharif will pay an official visit to Kazakhstan.
This project was implemented during 2011 2012, 836 million tenge was allocated for it.
The story of the release of the game in rate of fire takes from 3 thousand years. the history of creation of " asyk atu " calculates more than 3 thousand years .
Currently, 50 thousand cubic meters of cement have been delivered, "said S. Tuyakbaev.
In 2014, the "road maps" on the accession of Kyrgyzstan were implemented.
the average monthly salary was 9.3% and amounted to 108,243 tenge.
In addition, in the period from 2010 to 2014, new production produced products worth 200 billion tenge.
The medical call center was opened in February 2014 as a pilot project of astana innovations. medical call-center was opened within the pilot project in february 2014 by astana innovations .
in general, the sown areas of peasant farms exceed 100 ha.
On April 7, 9 consortia from 27 international and domestic companies submitted applications at the first stage of the competition.
He noted that the volume of investments will be about $80 million.
In February-March this year, in accordance with this program, a tranche in the amount of 50 billion tenge was allocated.
According to the head of the region, in 2015 it is planned to implement 8 projects worth 9.8 billion tenge.
We plan to sign 15 agreements worth 1 billion tenge, "he said.
marked improvement of Kazakhstan's position on the factor of innovative development (78; + 11).
The implementation of the central-eastern project began in 2013.
two unique new performances - the first premieres of the Astana Ballet Theater in 2015.
according to the results of two stages of the competition, the 10 best military personnel were determined. at the end of the two stages , the top 10 soldiers were determined .
The championship will officially open on July 22 and will be held according to the Olympic system.
The general international fund of the National Bank in October 2015 amounted to $28.7 billion. gross international reserves of the national bank have reached 28.7 billion dollars at the end of october 2015 .
There was a wide discussion of the draft, citizens made 30 thousand proposals to it. there was a broad discussion of the draft , the citizens had about 30 thousand proposals .
100 specific steps, as you know. "
To date, 4 cities have been selected: Shymkent, Taraz, Temirtau, Lisakovsky.
According to the Vice Minister, today the price of fuel in Kyrgyzstan is 160 tenge.
the length of the ship is 32 meters, width - 7 meters, crew - 14 people.
for victims and immigrants, places were organized from 55 state institutions.
the exhibition presents the attributes of the Khan's authorities, the constitution of 1937, 1978, 1993 and 1995.
Including 83 Heroes of the Soviet Union, drafted into the army from Kazakhstan.
According to him, 1,500 citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan are studying in the Orenburg region.
In 1994, Nursultan Nazarbayev raised this idea within the walls of Moscow University.
The loan will be received from the guarantee of the Development Fund in the amount of 12 million tenge.
25 objects and securities worth 658.1 million tenge were legalized.
The length of the giant roof of the building per roof was 150 m.
It is worth noting that the Richos Borovoye charity foundation has been held since 2013.
the volume of products produced by these enterprises increased by 12%.
In 2014, the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan amounted to 2.4 billion dollars.
4 reforms were carried out in Russia and Hong Kong.
He noted that today eidu unites 34 developed countries.
In the first half of the year 1.8 billion tenge, or 93% of the planned 1.9 billion tenge was spent.
the greenhouse complex was built and launched in 2013 in the Karasai district.
In total in Pavlodar region there are 680 thousand heads of small cattle.
26 objects and securities worth KZT677.5 million were legalized.
To date, within the framework of this program, 5 projects worth 582 million tenge have been financed in the West Kazakhstan region.
90% of the products of the German karlskrona lac ab plant are traded on the domestic market.
According to the results of the first half of 2015, agricultural production in Kazakhstan amounted to 8.1 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan in 2015 the inflation rate did not exceed 4%.
The overhaul of Victory Street amounted to 300.308 million tenge, which began in April 2015 and will be completed in August this year.
It is planned to complete the construction of 100 km of roads by the end of the year.
The second stage of the exercises started today, November 5, in Kazakhstan on the basis of the Koktal training ground.
By the end of 2017, we will try to solve this problem, "he said.
at the same time, the total international reserve of the national bank amounted to $29 billion.
Since the beginning of the year, 6 fairs have been held, as a result of which 135 people have been employed.
Work here is planned to continue in three areas until 2020.
the parties agreed that at least $300 million should be allocated to Kazakh projects.
The regional plane bombardier dash 8 q400 is an economical aircraft, so the passengers of the fleet of these aircraft can make profitable trips on small routes, "he said.
The next elections of deputies of national significance of Azerbaijan will be held on November 1 of this year.
Recall that the referees include 30 people from 21 countries.
the second phase of the sarats project consists of 8 components.
for the construction of the enterprise, a plot of 50 hectares was provided from the former tskz and the Kyzylorda region.
we produce 12 thousand tons of meat per month, up to 150 thousand tons of meat per year.
517 projects worth 11 billion tenge with 90 thousand new jobs are included in the industrialization map.
20 out of 40 social projects submitted - schools, hospitals and kindergartens.
The solemn event provides for covering 500 thousand Astana residents and citizens. it 's planned to cover more than 500 thousand astana 's residents and guests by the celebrations .
in total, 5,684 mothers with many children live in the city of Aktobe.
This year, 1335 people studied the Kazakh language in the region, 517 people studied English.
the new multifunctional complex consists of 4 blocks, covers an area of ​ ​ 3 hectares. the new multifunctional complex consists of 4 blocks , covers nearly 3 hectares .
I think that we will begin in 2025, "said V. Kristenko.
Yesterday we made 3 flights to Beijing a week.
Recall that in 2014 it was decided to create a project of the "mobile government."
therefore, at the beginning of the year we announced the baton "kha: 20 good deeds."
Within its framework, joint work will begin on the implementation of 26 projects.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 8 regions of the republic.
Since 2011, 65 projects totaling 5.9 billion tenge have been supported.
In 2008, the policy of containing tariffs yielded a positive result. the tariff policy we have introduced since 2008 , gave a positive result .
Today, about 200 tons of vegetables are stored in the warehouse of the stabilization fund.
The application for consultation of specialists is accepted around the clock by phone number 1411.
In order to improve the quality of work, the party is developing 27 draft regulatory documents.
The Council held 27 meetings at which issues of consideration of all sectors of the interstate program and projects were discussed.
2636 people work in public and urgent work, "he said.
In the first half of this year, trade between the two countries amounted to $600 million.
The patriot forum has been held in the regions of Kazakhstan since 2007.
today, the humidity level for the heating season averages 98%.
Today, 90 per cent of our trades come from World Trade Organization member countries.
It is worth noting that to date 51 countries and 11 international organizations have officially confirmed their participation in the EXPO.
106 km of the Kokshetau-Petropavlovsk section were laid in the North Kazakhstan region.
for example, in 2014, Amankel exported 6 thousand tons of its products.
The volume of production increased by 5 times compared to 2009 and amounted to 816.3 billion tenge.
Since 2011, 150 operations have been carried out to replace the artificial heart. since 2011 , the country has conducted more than 150 cardiac transplantations .
In general, 4 thousand artists will take part in this theatrical show, "said A. Musakozhaev.
16 billion tenge needed for these works will be invested by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
7 investment projects are being implemented in Semey, which will create 1.4 thousand jobs.
Agreements are also being prepared with 10 European countries, such as Germany, Slovakia, Serbia.
Since the beginning of the project, the capital - Petropavlovsk was closed 64 km of asphalt concrete pavement. since the beginning of the project astana - petropavlovsk 64 km of asphalt concrete pavement were laid .
It is worth noting that the Richos Borovoye charity foundation has been held since 2013.
Within the framework of the agreement there is a transition period of 6 years.
In 2010, the main office of the Marubeni was moved from Almaty to Astana.
In the reporting period, the measures of the ZhKZ 2020 program covered 55.5 thousand people.
tank biathlon 2015 started at the Alabino training ground in August 1.
To date, 27 projects are being implemented, "the akim concluded.
Also, 90% of production in construction is Kazakh products.
The festival will be attended by contestants and guests from 16 countries. the festival will present contestants and guests from 16 countries .
Since 2013, a special programme has been implemented to combat terrorism and extremism. since 2013 , we have implemented a special state program on combating terrorism and extremism .
for example, the library is equipped with electronic textbooks, 10 computers are installed for readers.
It is worth noting that the history of muses-tv begins in 2003.
7.5 thousand schools in Kazakhstan will open doors for 2 million 600 thousand children.
currently delivered 78.2% in the Abai region, 80% in the Zaisan region.
The International University of Information Technologies was established in 2009 on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan. international university of information technologies was established in 2009 at the request of the president of kazakhstan .
in this regard, it is necessary to create a common energy market before 2025.
French will be taught in 5 secondary schools of the region.
Thanks to the launch of production, 30 people will be provided with jobs, "the report said.
28 projects in metallurgy and engineering were financed in the amount of 6.9 billion tenge.
Athletes from 30 countries of the world came to participate in this championship.
This year, the Mayor's Office allocated 106.2 million tenge for the repair of 4 residential buildings.
The contract is calculated until the end of January 2016. the contract is designed until the end of january 2016 .
We plan to complete the system by 2020, "said Duissenova.
According to preliminary plans, 10 thousand new jobs will be created.
This year alone, 37 dairy farms were built in the region, in the future their number will increase.
the processing time of the entire cargo train was 1 hours 11 minutes.
In Kazakhstan, in the field of construction and trade there are 20 enterprises with the participation of Serbian capital. kazakhstan has 20 enterprises with participation of the serbian capital in construction and trade .
This year, 31 teams from European and CIS countries took part in the competition.
According to him, suicide prevention has been carried out in Kazakhstan since 2011.
South Kazakhstan is one of the regions with 300 sunny and warm days per year. south kazakhstan is a region where , more than 300 sunny and clear days .
On August 30, 1995, he entered the history textbooks as the adoption of the Constitution of Kazakhstan. august 30 , 1995 entered the history as the date of the adoption of a modern constitution of kazakhstan .
As a result, 84 sports grounds have been built to date.
The largest program is the Kazakh-Chinese industrial zone, which includes 45 projects.
elevator capacity is 30 thousand tons, mill capacity is 200 tons per day.
oil production increased 3 times, gas production - 5 times.
I thought I could spend about 20 more years of blood.
54 traffic lights will be replaced, "said Bekstan Shalabayev.
The national team of Kazakhstan consists of 25 people, the head coach is Arthur Tomsk.
In addition, 40 thousand citizens were employed without the use of state support measures.
According to the report, in 2015 the volume of subsidies amounted to 73.3 million tenge.
the company plans to produce up to 50 tons of bakery products per day.
the remaining 60% as junior commanders confirmed their qualifications and successfully passed all tests and exams.
the project will create about 400 new jobs.
Over 20 years, the civil protection system has undergone significant changes.
now the second level banks are considering 74 projects worth 14.7 billion tenge.
The Institute of Responsible Secretaries in Kazakhstan was introduced in 2007, when it came to youth. executive secretaries institute in kazakhstan was introduced in 2007 .
More than 100 thousand logos are placed in more than 19 thousand retail chains. more than 100 thousand logos have been placed in more than 19 thousand retail chains .
the territory of Kazakhstan is 95 million hectares of agricultural land.
in particular, about 4 million bags a year are sent to Russia itself.
Recall that the constitutional law "On State Symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan" was adopted on June 4, 2007.
now 20% of innovative products in the country are produced in the East Kazakhstan region.
In 2014, agricultural products reached $140 billion. in 2014 , agricultural production has reached 140 billion dollars .
5 institutional reforms will bring the legal sphere of the country closer to international standards, "said M. Bashimov.
In the new five-year plan, 6 out of 14 industries were implemented.
in addition, such agreements have been concluded with 22 countries.
We will consider amendments to 100 laws, which the head of state called in the fall.
By the end of the year, 55 km will be commissioned, "the report said.
According to him, since 2006 the number of large families has increased by 20%.
From July 1, 2017, the procedure for assigning a basic pension will be changed.
The number of those who proved that they were worthy of six signs increased by 10%.
residential construction bank customers transferred more than 52 million tenge to their deposit and credit accounts, "the report said.
The peasant received 55 tons of products on an area of ​ ​ 1.5 hectares of grapes.
As part of the memoranda, about 330 agreements worth more than 300 million tenge were concluded.
applications for participation in the subsidy program came from 21 financial institutions.
The next meeting of the joint working group will be held on September 29, 2015.
At the end of 2014, these companies produced 4.5 thousand tons of uranium.
Over the past 7 years, 16 traffic interchanges have been built.
Kaztransoil also published financial indicators for January-September 2015.
a building with a total area of ​ ​ 4700 square meters for 200 places.
According to the expert, today the total number of language centers is 91.
Within the framework of these meetings, 927 memoranda worth 1.4 trillion tenge were signed.
26 objects and securities worth KZT677.5 million were legalized.
Born May 5, 1944 in the village of Krug.
More than 170 thousand athletes from 7 states took part in special games.
Within the framework of these memoranda, 315 contracts worth 287.2 billion tenge were implemented.
20 employees of state departments of the region took the oath.
Currently, 7 million square meters of housing have been commissioned.
About 50% of deposits are government securities of the Ministry of Finance. about 50 % of investments - is the government securities of the ministry of finance .
In 2014, about 2 thousand different operations were carried out in this center.
7 billion 144 million tenge was allocated for completion of construction works started in 2014.
in June last year this amount amounted to 191 million tenge, and for the whole of 2014 - 3 billion tenge.
daytime sleep is organized in 31 schools, 2,495 children are covered by it.
According to him, in recent years, demand for production has grown by 27%.
the nearest customs post is 25 km from the city.
The entire highway will be completed at the end of 2016 on the eve of Expo 2017.
This year it is planned to launch 11 projects worth 39.1 billion tenge.
And Nurzhan Rakhimov repeated the prizes at a distance of 5000 meters.
A total of 52 vacancies from 12 institutions were presented at today's fair.
1 thousand 133 companies in the field of small and medium-sized businesses got the opportunity to guarantee collateral property on their loans.
Our army is faced with the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
The Red Army medical outpatient clinic is designed to receive 25 people per shift.
emergency houses to be demolished, more than 3 thousand.
As a result, the contest experts unanimously determined the names of 19 finalists.
To date, there are 667 private notaries in the capital.
the survey is attended by executives, about 100 companies annually.
We collect 120 specialists who will be employed in these specialties, "said the rector.
in Zhambyl region - 81% (2.9 million tenge), in Kyzylorda region - 84% (3.6 billion tenge).
In the near future, the company will produce 10 tons of milk powder per year.
It should be noted that 3943 people were prosecuted at the indicated time.
new production, equipped with high-tech equipment, will be commissioned in 2017.
According to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 493 objects are planned for sale.
Recently, the National University of Defense graduated from 102 officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan
340 kilometers of the raw material river flows through the territory of the region. the region is intersected by 340 kilometers of the syrdarya river .
paid services in urban medical organizations make up 10%.
In Kazakhstan, only 22% of exports are exports of finished products.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 8 regions of the republic.
this year - 120 objects, "said N. Nazarbayev.
312 people were sent for vocational training in specialties in demand on the labor market, "the report said.
in the act one liter - 21 tenge, in expenditure Kazakhstan - 65 tenge, "the deputy added.
6 domestic contracting organizations are involved in the reconstruction of roads.
Today we have launched a new horizon 2020 program, whose budget amounted to 80 billion euros.
its territory covers about 9 hectares.
Currently, 70 jobs are open in stores, 84 in cycle schools and points.
as a result, for the first time the prison contingent decreased to 41 thousand.
At the end of the fair, about 80 people were invited to an interview with the company.
Kazmau Academic Diplomatic Club was established on May 5, 2014.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 7 regions of the republic.
today, the future "works in the public service of 319 graduates.
Thus, changes in the bill related to the green economy relate to 10 legislative acts.
13 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the project, of which 10 billion have already been developed.
11 types of screening studies are conducted for residents of Astana city in order to detect socially significant diseases.
In 2015, it is planned to rent 7,014 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 415.3 thousand square meters.
For 9 months of this year, the growth of all macroeconomic indicators was ensured. for 9 months , all macroeconomic indicators have grown .
this figure is 16% higher than last year's figure for financing seasonal work in the agricultural sector of the republic.
this indicates that the test centre meets the requirements of international standards iso/iec 17025.
the concern was created as a result of the merger of German companies tui ag and English tui travel plc in 2014.
As of June 5 of this year, the number of problem objects amounted to 138 units. on june 5 this year , the number of problematic sites has been 138 units .
What are 3,000 apartments?
the maximum price of the lot weighing 500 kg was 510,000 tenge.
seasonal work this year covered 9,017 people, and paid public work at the expense of the local budget - 2,374 people. seasonal work involved 9017 people , public work - 2374 people .
The smart school project is being implemented on the basis of schools No. 3 and No. 15.
According to the results of the regional selection, 20 children became winners, "said M. Isakhanov.
17 objects and securities worth 636.5 million tenge were legalized.
The exhibition complex, which is 97 meters, will create an artistic picture of the modern city.
Note that from January 1, 2016, bread prices will be regulated by the market.
oil crops are sown on an area of ​ ​ 2 million hectares (93% of the plan has been completed).
As the head of state noted, in 1995 the political system of Kazakhstan was updated.
According to him, 43 km of recultivation and recultivation of fort-shevchenko were repaired.
By Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 31, 1998 No. 269, the Kazakh National Music Academy was opened.
3 million 343 thousand Kazakhstanis took part in the study of the draft constitution, who made 32 thousand proposals and proposals. over 3 million 343 thousand kazakhstanis made almost 32 thousand suggestions and comments .
Applications for participation in the competition are accepted by local executive bodies until August 31.
According to him, the main goal is to bring it to 70%.
At the same time, the region's foreign trade turnover amounted to 2 billion 498.2 million dollars.
Currently, 51% of the work has been completed under the Astana-Rek white investment program.
The 199th traditional national contest "Miss Kazakhstan" will be held in the capital on December 10.
So, over the years, 240 mediators have been trained in the country, 53 coaches have been trained.
As the press secretary of the capital LCD noted, buses of the "express" category differ daily from public transport, the fare in which is 150 tenge.
The exhibition will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
these ideas and principles cover 5 reforms, "he said.
domestic consumption increases by 6% annually.
For example, this year in the city will increase the volume of flower beds to 235 thousand square meters.
the company produces high-quality honey, 100% - a natural product.
At the July 3 meeting, the report of the national modernization commission will be heard.
The first place went to the Polish athlete, who lifted 184 kg on his back.
97 projects worth 32.1 billion tenge were approved by second-tier banks, "the minister said.
15 objects and securities worth KZT635.4 mln were legalized.
By 2020, cargo turnover will be 4.4 million tons.
As you know, privatization has been underway since September 1, 2014. as you know , the legalization was launched on september 1 , 2014 .
It is worth noting that the state savings system in Kazakhstan has been operating since 2013.
Kazakhstan issued 1015 loans totaling 184 billion tenge with an annual rate of 6%.
We will build 10 objects, the most important of which is the "pavilion of Kazakhstan."
in addition, donor organs were transported 4 times during this period.
In general, last year 25 health facilities were commissioned in Zhambyl region.
17 objects and securities worth 636.5 million tenge were legalized.
our first task was to become one of the 50 competitive countries in the world.
On October 15, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin will pay a state visit to Kazakhstan.
The competition will last from July 13 to August 31, 2015.
1,239 graduates are employed in youth practice.
In 2014 alone, $125 million was raised in tourism.
today there are 415 joint ventures in Kazakhstan, 124 Kazakh-Ukrainian joint ventures in Ukraine.
In 2014, the volume of direct investments in Kazakhstan amounted to $9.6 billion. the volume of foreign direct investment in kazakhstan in 2014 amounted to 9.6 billion dollars .
I met with representatives of 70 large enterprises at the end of August. i have met with representatives of 70 large companies , and all of them expressed interest in expo-2017 .
about 200 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, "A. Sarinzhipov explained.
On June 12, a regular meeting of the Security Council will be held under the chairmanship of the President of Kazakhstan.
The first district seminar-meeting of district oncologists was held in October 2011 in the capital. the first republican seminar of district oncologists was held in october 2011 in astana .
In accordance with the program, 120 training hours were allocated for its implementation in 15 subjects.
By the end of the year, it is planned to completely complete work on 312 km of roads.
rising prices for legumes amounted to 4%, sunflower seeds - 2.1%.
By the end of 2015, it is planned to cover 372 halls.
345.7 million tenge was allocated for this, 820 million tenge was allocated for the development of engineering infrastructure.
the company's capacity is 8 thousand tons, "the report said.
16 objects and securities worth 636.2 million tenge were legalized.
Thus, projects of the industrialization map will create 10 thousand jobs.
Construction is scheduled to begin in June 2016.
3,300 jobs were created, 19.3 billion tenge of investments were attracted.
Recall that Pavlodar Boiler Plant LLP was created in 1998.
the first set of medals of the Almaty continental championship was played by women in 41 kg.
According to the Vice Minister, 455.5 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the construction industry in 8 months.
For example, 4.5 billion tenge is provided for the construction of 15 health facilities.
On October 16, a meeting of the heads of state of the CIS will be held under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan.
elevator capacity 30 thousand tons, mill - 200 tons per day.
In 2014, 1,881 apartments for 93.13 thousand square meters were commissioned.
the Government of Kazakhstan, by its new decision, has already included 10 countries in this list.
In 2015, 21 facilities of trunk and intra-quarter heat networks were repaired.
It is noted that the convention was adopted in Nassau on May 23, 1992.
the share of exports in the gross domestic product of Kazakhstan is 37%.
of which 5 gold and 3 bronze medals were won by Almaty athletes.
In fact, 78 objects were put up for sale, 57 objects were sold.
In 5 institutional reforms, the rule of law is of particular importance.
In fact, 82 objects were put up for sale, 58 objects were sold.
According to the plan, fixed assets are being prepared for winter time, of which 86% have been completed today.
25 people were recognized as worthy of the prize approved by the head of state.
Thus, 22 new projects totaling 62.6 billion tenge were adopted.
the family - Jazite Caprens - devoted 40 years of his life to teaching.
Construction is planned to begin in 2016 and be completed in 2019.
more than 90% of our foreign trade turnover is accounted for by WTO member countries.
100% of transshipment white products are exported to industrialized countries.
45 enterprises operate in the industrial zone "South."
The sporting event will begin on August 29 on the square near the Baiterek monument.
951 residents of the city were employed, "the report said.
according to our estimates, more than $100 billion has been invested in the city.
the first graduates will be completed next year, their number is 124 people. the first graduates will be next year , the number will be 124 people .
This company has been operating in the CIS countries since 1991.
and from next year, 300 million tenge will be allocated from the regional budget for the payment of subsidies to reduce prices for fish products.
According to him, in 2016 all construction work of the town will be completed.
their commissioning will create 400 jobs.
The sown area of ​ ​ 250 million hectares is 4% of the world resource.
in the whole area, the percentage of deliveries is 78%.
Today there are 492 joint ventures of Kazakhstan and India in our country.
according to the competition program - 11 nominations, "- said in a statement.
in fact, 76 objects were put up for sale, 56 objects were sold.
in fact, 77 objects were put up for sale, 56 objects were sold.
Completion of construction is scheduled for 2018, "the report said.
For 9 months of 2015, projects of the industrialization map produced products worth 60 billion tenge.
The project was launched by the PRC government in 2014, to date, more than 20 agencies have been involved in the field of services and support for business startups.
According to him, the factory provides 500 new jobs.
174 million tenge was allocated for the construction of a new facility from the village of Zhyngyldy.
applications for participation in the subsidy program came from 28 financial institutions.
Inflation in 2014 was 7.4%, "said K. Limbetov.
As noted, in 2003-2014, the institution built 680 thousand apartments.
Today, the Ukrainian diaspora in the amount of 300 thousand people lives in Kazakhstan. today , there are 300 thousand people in the ukrainian diaspora of kazakhstan .
According to him, as part of the plan, 82 enterprises were covered by support measures.
This measure allowed enterprises to get loans in the amount of 52 billion tenge.
In 2014, a project was launched that implements Camp East LLP.
together they lived 55 years and raised 10 children.
Since 2011, the first stage of modernization has been carried out at the enterprise.
For 20 years, the association has implemented hundreds of socially significant projects.
30% of the costs will be returned after the project is completed.
according to experts, the situation will escalate in the next 10 years. according to experts and scientists , the situation will only get worse in the next 10 years .
and in April last year this figure was 2 million.
of which 560 million tenge will be allocated for railway repair.
Within its framework, it is planned to create 30 jobs.
at least 3 strategic investors will also be attracted.
Of these, 18 projects worth 7.13 billion tenge have been launched.
According to him, over 20 years this model has shown effectiveness.
The train traveled a distance of 4726 km in just 6 days.
45 permanent jobs have been created, "the report said.
In 2017-2018, 16 more educational programs will be prepared.
According to him, the plant with kebabs will be launched in 2020.
The pentagonal star symbolizes its openness to all 5 continents of our state.
We plan to get 10 licenses, "Kanagatov said.
It is expected that the forum will be attended by 650 delegates from 15 countries.
The winner of the Grand Prix nomination "Best Work for Children" was awarded a prize of 1 million tenge.
21 objects and securities worth 654.2 million tenge were legalized.
24 objects and securities worth 657.9 million tenge were legalized.
Until December 2015, 2 schools will be opened in Mangistau region. 2 schools will be opened in mangistau region until december 2015 .
It is worth noting that 8 teams are playing for the Kazkontent Cup.
This event involved more than 3 thousand units of weapons and military equipment.
The organization submitted to the heads of state a draft strategy until 2025. the organization has presented draft strategy until 2025 .
Today, about 5 thousand people are employed in beet crops. as of today , work on beet crops involves about 5 thousand people .
At this event we presented 50 scientific works of Kazakhstan with commercial potential.
that is, at least 160 horses are expected to participate in the competition.
14 athletes took part in competitions.
More than 100 thousand people work at 110 subsidiaries of the cnc group.
Since the beginning of 2015, a savings deposit has been opened for 89 pupils.
In 1962 he received the specialty of a machine operator.
From January to May, 86 loans worth 208.4 million tenge were issued to residents.
the potential of these agreements is estimated at $3 billion.
In addition, construction work was completed in 7 months.
36 grandchildren and 20 great-grandchildren are brought up in a family of sculptors.
All 29 teams demonstrated their skill in difficult sports.
a loan agreement is concluded for a period of 15 years with a three-year discount.
Since the beginning of the year, employees have been given wage arrears in the amount of 4 billion tenge.
Until 2015, the event was held as part of the Astana Economic Forum.
Design and estimate documentation is being developed for the Karagando-Kapchagai (1037 km) site.
Currently, there are 1,466 employers using individual entrepreneurs in Kazakhstan.
In addition, 396 apartment buildings were introduced in Uralsk.
70% of entrepreneurs in the field of trade and services.
the launch of new production is planned in the second half of 2016.
As noted, the forum will be held on August 15 in Ust-Kamenogorsk.
According to him, another 12 projects will be implemented in 2015.
To date, 10 projects worth 104 million tenge have been financed, the rest are under consideration.
As you know, 16 chemical plants will be located in the economic zone.
most of the projects reached more than 50% of the working capacity.
400 permanent jobs will be created during the project.
Kazakhstan is interested in mastering the first experience of implementing 100 steps.
the number of able-bodied citizens among these families is 384.
To date, 45 local residents work on the elevator.
They involve 120 workers, including local residents.
In three days, temirtau will celebrate its 70th anniversary.
Currently, more than 300 tons of products have been sent to Russia.
the company can process 5 thousand tons of milk per day.
the experience of other candidates in the courts will be extended to 1 year.
To date, 30 companies are at the level of reinvestment.
During the event, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted 100 concrete steps of Kazakhstan's development.
Over 85 years, the military unit has undergone many changes.
Note that Nazarbayev University this year graduated from 446 classes.
according to management representatives, the test consists of 7 types of tests.
in the queue for places in kindergartens there are 15,727 children.
The competition was attended by 22 candidates from different regions of the country.
16 laws from these laws I have already signed.
In 1945, it was decided to transfer the organization to New York. in 1945 , it was decided to place the un headquarters in new york .
The motorcycle race will cover all areas and will last 45 days.
prospects of grain storage are planned to be increased to 100 thousand tons.
The implementation of the remaining 28 projects is scheduled for the second half of the year.
In connection with the opening of production, 110 new jobs were created.
According to him, 95% of domestic materials were used in road projects.
By the way, today 96 families have been resettled from the village of Kalachi.
The volume of exports has increased 3 times, "the minister said.
90 ethnic groups live in our region as one family.
At the end of the year, egg exports reached 200 million units.
they created 150 monuments according to the ancient method.
With the opening of the building, 27 residents of the city of Akkol were employed.
parliamentary elections in Turkey are held every 4 years.
It is worth noting that more than 200 specialists take part in the forum.
the introduction of a poultry farm will provide work for 100 people.
250 tons of tomato paste per day will be made from its products.
Note that the KDB approved 8 leasing agreements in the amount of 620 million tenge.
In connection with 73 per cent of the applications, the reason for the withdrawal was provided.
232 crimes committed by organized criminal groups are open.
Since 2010, the birth rate has increased by 9.5%.
Note that the enterprise employs 20 people.
Today, 5 million 317 thousand 670 children live in the country. today , in the country there are 5 million 317 thousand 670 children .
In total, at these competitions, our team won five medals (1 silver and 4 bronze).
On October 9, President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko will pay an official visit to Kazakhstan.
Today we take part in the opening of the new school No. 81 of Astana. today we have attended the opening of a new school № 81 in astana .
The state program for the development of regions has been implemented in the region since 2012.
Milk prices fell from 115 tenge to 70 tenge, which is 40%.
today, 1% of the grain will be directed to the production of pasta.
The decline in metal prices started in 2011 continues.
17 contracting organizations are engaged in street and sidewalk cleaning.
For the period June 2014 - June 2015, 159 objects are subject to privatization.
To date, the number of registered cars in the capital has exceeded 320 thousand.
In 2016, it is planned to begin construction on 11 projects, "he said.
project cost $6 billion, construction area 1,150,000 square meters.
The agreement was signed in the capital on October 7, 2010.
For the period from June 2014 to June 2015, 339 facilities were subject to privatization.
this meeting will be held within the framework of the international conference "Space Days in Kazakhstan - 2015."
we considered all these 15 issues during the small session.
The application will be adopted from July 1 to November 1, 2015.
today, 48 countries are participating in this initiative, which represents a global standard of openness.
China joined the WTO in 2001, "he said.
37 people who received education under this system received certificates.
It is expected that the number of passengers will be about 250 thousand people.
I've been in sports for 10 years. i do sports for over 10 years .
over the past year, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with other countries amounted to 150 million dollars.
In 2014, it was 2 people, "the ministry said.
In 3 years, we plan to train 400 people, "said the rector.
In addition, it was noted that extractive companies make up 70% of state revenues.
in honor of this anniversary, an event was held dedicated to the 40th anniversary of the formation of the university on the basis of the Acca Military Institute.
68 memoranda worth 310 billion tenge were signed between the enterprises of the republic and the region.
since the launch of the service to date, more than 48 million times have been received.
During the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 389 facilities were subject to privatization.
Currently, the decline in the industry since the beginning of the year is 29%.
For the period June 2014 - July 2015, 95 objects are subject to privatization.
the cost of the new model starts from 11 thousand dollars, "said A. Lavrentiev.
For the period from June 2014 to July 2015, 181 objects are subject to privatization.
For the period from June 2014 to July 2015, 183 objects are subject to privatization.
During the period from June 2014 to October 2015, 417 objects were subject to privatization.
Over the past 10 years, Kazakhstan has raised $208 billion. total in the last 10 years , kazakhstan has attracted about 208 billion dollars .
According to him, a total of 120 memoranda worth more than 300 billion tenge were concluded.
In the period June 2014 - August 2015, 95 objects are subject to privatization.
The names of the winners will be known on November 21 at the marathon of business plans.
the active auction value is 5 percent.
For the period June 2014 - October 2015, 210 objects are subject to privatization.
During the period from June 2014 to August 2015, 197 facilities were subject to privatization.
diplomatic relations between our countries were established 23 years ago. diplomatic relations between our countries were established 23 years ago .
mainly it is samruk-kazyna "47 billion 300 million tenge.
the share of Kazakh content in the construction process is at least 80%.
Recall that on October 1, the week of "charity" started.
Currently, 100 universities have been introduced into the system.
Until October 20, 155 applications were approved at regional coordination councils.
In general, we expect the participation of 100 countries. in total , we expect more than 100 countries .
military personnel of military units 32363, 18404, 61993, 12740, 29108 participate in the landing biathlon.
In 2005-2015, $200 billion was invested in Kazakhstan, he said.
this unit is the second most important office in the vapour system and coordinates the work of 20 international organizations.
this year there will be 3 more squares.
A feature of 2015 is that schoolchildren took part in international studies of timss and pisa.
Within its framework, 46 billion tenge of state investments were spent, "said A. Rau.
In August 2015 and June 2014, 393 objects were sold.
to date, it exceeds $9 billion.
26 civil and 4 criminal cases with the participation of a mediator were considered. by mediation 26 civilians and 4 criminal cases have been reviewed , " the message reads .
3 . Edelweiss health camp located in Medeu district
In our region, 81 projects worth 800 billion tenge are included in the industrialization map. in general , the map for industrialization included 81 projects worth 800 billion tenge .
we began working with the "sole" charitable foundation in 2014.
among them are 8 men's and 5 women's teams.
130 peoples and 17 denominations live in Kazakhstan. more than 130 people and more than 17 denominations live in kazakhstan .
This year he added 6 new projects: danone, lotte group, avz, btm, galaksi, coca-cola.
Our list includes 45 projects worth 22 billion dollars, "said A. Gaziev.
453 projects were approved in the capital, for which 407 agreements were subsidized.
Subsidization of 346 projects for a total amount of 1,559,5 million tenge was approved.
now 110 workers and 20 pieces of equipment are involved in the construction. now the construction involved 110 workers and 20 units of special equipment .
even giants such as toyota, mercedes will not be 100%. the giants such as toyota , mercedes have not 100 % .
According to the project, production will produce 1 million tons of cement per year.
with a capacity of 75 thousand tons of rolled metal per year.
a single buyer has been introduced by law since 2016. the new system was introduced in 2016 .
The XVII festival of languages ​ ​ of the people of Kazakhstan is scheduled to close on September 24.
100 steps are aimed at eliminating the weaknesses of the state system.
During the period of implementation of the program, 66 billion tenge of budget funds were allocated for the development of the agro-industrial complex of the region. for development of agriculture 66 billion tenge has been allocated .
about 90% of undergraduate students study in English. about 90 % of the student study in english .
annual turnover of about $15 billion.
On June 5, 2011, a law on mediation was introduced.
our time was 3 hours 39 minutes for all the tasks that we completed.
24 personnel and 8 pieces of equipment.
the cost of the housing project is 153 million tenge and it is expected that it will be commissioned in September.
The UN office was opened in the country on February 16, 1993.
Today, 56 thousand people in Kazakhstan receive targeted assistance. today , 56 thousand people receive social aid .
According to him, 91% of the funds from privatization come from holdings.
The total investment in the project will be about 32 billion tenge.
in connection with the anniversary, the document "helsinki plus 40" was considered.
In 1994, the Cultural Heritage program began.
10 athletes performed in the weight category up to 49 kilograms among men.
this forum was established in 1895 as the "International Art Exhibition of the City of Venice."
in addition, 466 billion tenge was invested in the non-oil sector.
the constitutional law is introduced on January 1, 2016.
The next iimd meeting is planned to be held in Minsk in 2016.
this year, 115 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
According to him, amendments to the constitution of Kazakhstan were made in 2007
this week, the capital's development budget for 2016 will be considered.
in the investment portfolio of 115 promising projects in the amount of 595 billion tenge.
49.8 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of the single program in 2015.
In 2014, 2 million steel was used by machine builders.
This kindergarten also provides work for 65 people.
To repeat the information press "1."
he also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
their loan amount is 150 million tenge, the guarantee of the fund - 17 million tenge.
The process of formation of the stabilization fund has been going on since 2011. the stabilization fund was launched in 2011 .
The volume of production of this industry amounted to 21,857,6 million tenge.
the institution has 65 employees, of which 24 are educators.
About 80% of all greenhouse farms in the country are concentrated in the region.
The volume of industrial production for the first half of the year amounted to 276 billion tenge.
loan amount 20 million tenge, annual interest 7%.
There are 200 ethnic schools and 195 language centres.
the total volume of investment projects of the first stage will be $300 million.
the poultry farm will produce 360 million eggs per year.
53 km are planned to be commissioned by the end of the year. at the end of the year it is planned to put into operation 53 kilometers .
The goal of Kazakhstan is to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
currently there are 3028 roadside facilities in Kazakhstan.
1 billion 537 million tenge is allocated for the construction of this facility from the national and local budgets.
the total amount of contracts concluded is 6 billion tenge.
319 family labor dynasties, 19 ethnic groups were demonstrated in detail.
on it is a 4-meter golden ball.
today, the farm has 1300 heads of the main livestock.
not everyone here has 100% success.
For 7 months output amounted to 2.1 billion tenge.
To date, about 20 negotiations have been completed.
for hockey teams there are 7 locker rooms.
We plan to start the construction of the plant in early 2017. construction of the plant is planned to launch in early 2017 .
on 60% of the construction site we carry out construction work.
400 enterprises with the participation of Ukrainian capital operate in Kazakhstan. in kazakhstan there are 400 enterprises with the participation of the ukrainian capital .
In 2014, the total volume of grain exceeded 13 thousand tons.
The cost of the project is 496 million tenge, where 99 new jobs will be created.
This will improve the activities of 103 and ensure timely access of ambulances to patients.
95 people with disabilities applied for employment.
The total cost of the project is 28 million US dollars.
By the end of 2015, 700 units of cars will be produced.
each school is 100% provided with educational materials.
According to the law, the Day of State Symbols is celebrated in Kazakhstan annually on June 4.
The volume of gross output of the agro-industrial complex amounted to 44 billion tenge.
Bulgaria joined the World Trade Organization in 1996.
today in Almaty there are 20 pairs of "usataz-children."
the World Cup will be presented in 150 countries.	live broadcast of the championship will take place in approximately 150 countries .	4,09
in a family of 13 grandchildren and 1 great-grandson.	the family kanatbayevs ' has 13 grandchildren and 1 great-grandson .	4,09
100 steps announced by the head of state. "
the total amount of grants provided amounted to more than 104 billion tenge.
Last year alone, the holding exported 5 thousand transformers to Russia.
As part of the program of preferential car loans, 75% of the funds were used. the program of concessional car lending mastered 75 % of the funds provided .
8 people from each group, and here our group wore gas turbine, yellowish and helmets. the team consisted of 8 people .
383 grants worth 1.139 billion tenge were issued to novice businessmen.
3,117 people were employed for permanent jobs. there are also 3 117 people received permanent jobs .
most recently, our family life was 10 years old. a few days ago we celebrated 10 anniversary of our marriage .
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 29 families reached the final.
today in the city, 35% of businessmen are engaged in trade.
annually Vietnam imports an X-ray machine worth $90 million.
On the second stage of the theater, 90,737 spectators came to the theater.
Contestants from 21 countries performed at the competition, the competition was very high.
According to the Director General, 200 innovative projects are presented on the portal.
As a result, 39 low-income companies were selected. in the end , 39 low-profit companies were chosen .
From July 15 of this year, we will extend the visa-free regime for investors.
"Children's Planet," designed for 150 children, began receiving children.
On May 27, 2010, a copy of the monument was installed in the city of Rostovsk.
In 2015, it is planned to bring container transportation to 250 thousand containers.
In January-June 2015, KZT9,178 million was invested in housing construction.
For 10 months of this year, deposits increased by 4.6%. for 10 months of this year , the deposits have grown by 4.6 % .
three lines in the second step 500 kilovolts. there are three 500 kv power lines within the second phase .
On June 17, the startup balashak association project will be launched.
the total cost of this mega project is 52 billion tenge.
today the association unites about 15 thousand women.
The market value of the company exceeds 100 billion US dollars.
its result will be 100 steps, 100 presidential instructions.
12 targeted projects of the party cover the peoples of Kazakhstan.
By 2016, the volume of investments will be 2.5 billion tenge.
The building, for which 236 million tenge was spent, meets all the requirements.
gross agricultural output amounted to 44 billion tenge.
Construction work is scheduled to begin in February 2016.
The construction of the clinic began in April 2014.
To date, the state's participation in companies is 100%.
the number of services provided through these channels reached 100 million.
dairy products worth 2 billion 944 million tenge were produced.
This is the best result since 2005.
It is worth noting that tomorrow, August 1, international army games will begin.
accordingly, the export potential will be about 7 million tons.
in total, 15 performers from 12 countries took part in the competition.
questionnaires included 32 questions to identify 18 criteria.
The congress is attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
internship of undergraduates in the courts lasts up to 1 year.
a record 700 kg of meat is used in cooking. 700 kilograms of meat will be used during the preparing of the meal .
From January 1 of this year, the eeo was commissioned.
I've been here 3 years in a row.
According to him, from 2011 to 2015, 1,500 billion tenge was allocated to the stabilization fund.
Competitions were held according to the formula of 12 people for 12 people.
This is a 100% effective project, "said N. Sadvakasov.
Since 2014, new requirements for participating in the competition have been introduced.
This is $50 billion, "said the deputy.
The construction of the residence of the President of Kazakhstan began in September 2001.
today the association unites about 15 thousand women.
questionnaires consisted of 32 questions for measuring 18 indicators.
On September 10, 2005, the library received the first readers.
today we have attracted $2 billion in foreign direct investment to central Asia. today we involve 2 billion dollars of foreign direct investment in central asia .
In 2010, the Chinese side proposed the creation of a development bank.
104 people are employed in social jobs.
In 2015, 4 job fairs were held.
To date, 12 kindergartens for 2790 places have been commissioned.
produces about 30% of oil and gas.
The competition was attended by 92 teams from all over Kazakhstan.
7 swimmers took part in it: Mansurbek Ibrashev, Andrey Afanasyev, Zulfia Gabidullin, Siazbek Daliyev, Anuar Akhmetov, Natalya Zvyagintseva and Mikhail Eremenko.
The congress is attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
60 permanent works during commissioning. it is planned to create 60 permanent job places .
180 of the best children in the region are now resting.
Currently, 85% of construction and installation work has been completed.
loans can be obtained with a preferential 7% annual rate.
70 athletes from Kazakhstan and Russia will take part in tournament.
The results of the competition will be announced on September 8, 2015.
The national teams of 11 regions of the country took part in the team competition.
In Kazakhstan, 10 universities have been selected, which will be aimed at developing the program, acquiring equipment, training personnel in the magistracy.
the parties reached an agreement for at least 18 years.
in fact, 200 thousand cubic meters. m. Will be prepared around.
pesticide production in chemical production increased by 4%.
today it does not exceed 200 diamond companies. nowadays , there are not more than 200 companies in almaty .
the cost of the project is 150 million tenge, "the report said.
This year, 96 socially significant projects are being implemented, "the minister said.
the composer wrote a masterpiece of world choreographic classics in 1875.
According to him, this year 9 billion 571 million tenge was allocated for the construction of social facilities.
The children's competition was attended by 20 performers from 17 countries.
As I said, there are 15 issues on the agenda.
It is expected to intensify the work of private business for 75 billion tenge.
By the end of this year, 183 objects will be put up for auction.
the total roof area of ​ ​ the khan is 127 thousand square meters.
In turn, Strong Formation LLP began its activities in 2013.
in addition, we updated about 20 thousand questions.
In general, the Kazakh export geography includes 70 states.
The International Atomic Energy Agency was established in 1957.
Nazarbayev intellectual school in Aktau with 720 places.
the total area of ​ ​ the building is more than 11 thousand square meters.
64 teenagers and 13 girls from Akmola region.
the volume of the building itself will be 64 thousand square meters.
8 applicants scored the maximum possible 100 points.
The honor of Akmola region in the fight for the banner was defended by 6 athletes.
Within the framework of these projects, 555 km of roads will be reconstructed.
Among 114 indicators, there was an improvement in 73 indicators.
They won 198 gold, 180 silver and 132 bronze medals.
price for gas metering devices starts from KZT9289 with VAT.
The agreement should enter into force around 2018. the agreement must enter into force in 2018 .
in Zhambyl region today there are 410 kindergartens. as of today , there are 410 kindergartens in zhambyl .
It was attended by 13 teams from 6 regions of the country.
The cost of the project is about $10 million.
These works involved 23 pieces of equipment and 120 workers.
52 projects in 15 areas will be presented to potential investors.
The congress is attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
the total amount of provision of express guarantee amounted to 274 million tenge.
The honor of Akmola region was represented by 7 athletes.
Over the past 5 years, 12 schools have been built in Almaty.
bank lending amounted to 12 trillion tenge.
1759 foreign citizens are involved in seasonal agricultural work.
So, this year we received more than 24 billion tenge of subsidies.
the age of orazala and camila sculptures was 72 years.
In 2015, 500 grants were allocated for our university.
According to the plan, it is planned to implement 215 projects.
40,431 objects worth 277.8 billion tenge were legalized.
Tomorrow will be the final stage of the 10-kilometer run.
The competition was attended by 300 students from schools in Taraz.
According to him, this year 31 bodies sent the corresponding requirements.
The deadline for entering the object is the first quarter of 2016.
its capacity is 3 million liters of water.
To date, the team has won 27 licenses.
100 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund for these purposes in 2015.
You have known for a long time that he is not 150 years old.
of these, 100 houses.
The festival was attended by 15 enterprises producing confectionery products.
bilk media group will provide 44 children with free courses on the bilimland portal.
The first selection of cadets took place in September 1975.
In favorable years, we launched 770 facilities for industrial projects. we have launched many industrial projects - 770 .
In 2010, sculptors celebrated golden weddings.
in total, soldiers of 17 countries took part in the parade.
As you know, the national champions program started in the spring of 2015.
he lifted 106 kg of barbell.
16 professionals who have trained children will vote.
The remaining 17.5 billion tenge will be spent in the first quarter of 2016.
initially there could not be 32 champions at once.
Currently, the company has created 250 jobs.
in total, more than 150 people will take part in the event.
Harvesting was carried out at the level of 95%.
The building of the administrative complex with an area of ​ ​ 1294 square meters was built.
This year, 75 lancers will leave the school.
the new preschool institution is designed for 320 places.
I raise one and 8 foster children. i bring up 8 foster children and one natural child .
Since the beginning of the year, 7,969 unemployed have been employed. since the beginning of the year the employment bodies have employed 7969 unemployed people .
at the first forum, works by artists of 16 states were presented.
At the launch of the complex, 100 jobs will be created.
According to the head of state, there are 500 foreign missionaries in the country.
By the end of the year we plan to organize 9 international and republican tournaments.
After the 2008 crisis, it was very difficult.
According to the organizers, 152 students from 90 teams take part in it.
the territory of the coastal recreation zone is 15 hectares.
reports of 10 speakers from different countries.
The next negotiations will be held in 2016 in the city of thief.
At least in 2016, 2017, 2018.
the general plan for the construction of beaches has been completed by 70%.
This document was adopted on June 9, 1993 in Managua.
the total area of ​ ​ the industrial zone is 200 hectares.
The company plans to create 250 jobs.
To date, 71 projects worth 600 billion tenge have been implemented.
the date was announced on December 14, 1990.
Within the framework of investment forums in Kazakhstan, 500 companies arrived in the country.	meanwhile , he added :  as part of investment forums kazakhstan was visited by 500 companies .
Last year, growth compared to 2013 amounted to 48%.
double-sided blocks consist of 4 and 5 floors.
Also, 20 companies will take part in the construction of expo facilities.
929 thousand square meters will be commissioned this year. this year 929 thousand square meters of housing will be commissioned .
This year, the state allocated 32 thousand grants for studying at universities.
Over 4 years, 2 thousand children took part in it.
The delivery will be completed in December 2015, "said Sosaybekov.
according to the project, the stadium seats 8 thousand people.
Strategic program 2050 provides for Kazakhstan's entry into 30 countries.
more than 900 million tenge was allocated for the project.
the capacity of the new terminal will be 4 million passengers per year.
2 . salem health camp in the botanical area
210 and 130 places are allocated for these specialties.
data increased due to all types of agriculture and animal husbandry, and the number of birds increased by 34%.	poultry increased by 34 % .	4,36
In 2015, the total amount of payments approached 4 billion tenge.	in 2015 , the payments amounted to almost 4 billion tenge .	4,36
In general, construction work will be completed in October 2017.	the construction work will be completed in october 2017 .	4,36
The Republic of Kazakhstan entered the eidu development center in February 2015.	kazakhstan has joined the oecd development centre in february 2015 .	4,36
So, in 2015, 454 people moved.	so , in 2015 454 people have been relocated ,  the message reads .
the remaining 30 percent will be considered in court, "said A. Solovieva.
The National Museum was created on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan in 2013.
The affordable housing program 2020 started in 2012.
the length of the warehouse is 300 meters, the width is 150 meters.
today about 30% of construction work has been completed. as of today , about 30 % of work have already been completed .
4 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes this year.
Recall that the construction of the infrastructure of the industrial zone began in 2014.
75 billion tenge - for industrialization projects - for SPIID projects.
This project began in 2009.
109 projects worth 20.2 billion tenge were issued here.
Kazakhstan's expenses for the implementation of the project amounted to 250 thousand dollars.
today 75 people are involved here.
since the beginning of the project, 17 thousand envelopes with a new index have been sent.
we worked hard for 19 years to achieve this result, negotiations were not easy.
It is planned to produce 30 tons of bakery products per year.
the cost of one square meter of the house is 879 tenge.
The company plans to create 250 new jobs.
Holder of the Honorary Order, 2006
Last year alone, projects worth 2.8 billion tenge were implemented, 250 new jobs were created.
Since then, 70 years have passed, the world has changed.
this year it is planned to catch up to 300 tons of fish.
today 83 people work in a dry port. nowadays 83 people work at " dry port . "
About 20 thousand Romanians live in Kazakhstan. in kazakhstan there are about 20 thousand romanians .
In 2014, trade amounted to $9.4 million.
It is expected that 2 million people will take part in the exhibition.
Construction work is underway on 8 sections of 304 km.
The Constitution of Kazakhstan this year marks the 20th anniversary. this year the constitution reaches 20 years .
The Mab International Coordinating Council granted 19 applications.
The volume of foreign investments in the project will amount to 11 billion tenge.
A.Sarinzhipov noted that this year 157 schools were put into operation.
the euro has recently weakened by 20%. the euro has weakened by 20 % in recent years .
The center presents 15 technologies, "said A. Solovieva.
In 2014, the budget received 8.3 billion tenge in taxes.
Since 2013, when the center was opened, 1,045 women have been assisted.
More than 6 million tenge of fines were collected in the regional budget.
The events are planned to be held until 2018. these activities are diverse , different levels , they are provided until 2018 .
During this time, Kazakhstan began to produce 400 goods.
the population reached 900 thousand people, which was difficult to predict.
39,708 objects worth 274.2 billion tenge were legalized.
41,759 objects worth 286.5 billion tenge were legalized.
41,925 objects worth 287.2 billion tenge were legalized.
42,594 objects worth 289.9 billion tenge were legalized.
the area is only 2 square kilometers, which is comparable to the place reserved for the Expo.
the IAEA General Conference will last until 18 September.
these changes will enter into force on October 5, 2015.
foreign trade reached $120 billion.
14 billion tenge was allocated to finance new projects in the food industry.
the total area of ​ ​ the building is 143 thousand square meters. meters.
96 of them were financed by Kazagro JSC.
The cost of the project is 540 billion tenge, "said the chairman of the committee.
tolerance price weighing up to 3 kg 1000 tenge.
It is noted that this plant will provide work for 50 residents of the region.
Nazarbayev University was established in 2010 at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
The parade will take place on September 3 of this year in Beijing.
The volume of investments amounted to more than 60 million tenge.
The first meeting of experts was held in March 2015 in Almaty.
29,093 people were employed without state support measures.
this project consists of 35 activities, "said N. Kalashnikov.
the total number of terminals exceeds 14 thousand.
full completion of work in these areas is planned in 2016.
In 2014, 10 km of roads were commissioned.
Construction of this project is planned to begin in 2016.
4 . camp "apple-mountain" medeu district
The book consists of 16 chapters and 570 sheets.
Chinese exports decreased by about 8%.
The trust capitalization fund amounted to $600 million.
The project will be launched in 2016.
the cost of the new feldsher-midwife station will be 88 million 230 thousand tenge.
the planned capacity of the enterprise is 60 tons of meat per year.
The total cost of the entrepreneur's project is 5 million tenge.
57 teams from 17 countries expressed a desire to take part.
The congress is attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
the amount of subsidies exceeded 100 million tenge.
500 people annually become grant holders.
The winners of the competition will take part in the international competition in 2016.
in the first quarter 244 square meters.
During the project, 600 jobs will be created.
all 18 districts of the region are on the industrialization map.
The total cost of the project is 3 million tenge.
He will receive a grant of $90,000.
This year, the threshold of snowstorms for the first time will be called 26 thousand children.
it is also designed for 3 years.
kaznex invest ak began in 2010.
the area of ​ ​ the new complex is 75 hectares.
the results of the first auction will be announced in December 2015.
The event is attended by 80 delegations from 42 countries.
this distance is 8 thousand km.
today, productivity reaches 40 centners. we collect up to 40 quintals per hectare of barley .
The competition was attended by 5 teams from 5 districts of the region.
During the action, 200 information booklets were distributed.
our company has been operating for a little over 1 year. our company exists more than 1 year .
in total, 102 families took part in the qualifying stage.
From January 1, 2017, changes will be made.
The material and technical base of the camp has been updated for 8 million 397 thousand tenge.
500 people annually become grant holders.
annual output exceeds 160 thousand heads.
and a boarding school for 120 children will become a landscaped place for schoolchildren.
The project of modernization of the package will be carried out in 2 stages.
According to the regional akimat, the goal of the project is 15 million tenge.
This year, 70% of graduates take part in UNT.
In 2004, the plant was opened by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
teams were divided into 7 columns of 18 teams each.
76 servicemen from the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
80 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the construction of a feldsher-midwife station.
The project will create 16 new jobs at the enterprise, "the report said.
our fund has collected more than 24 thousand exhibits.
It is planned that the capacity of the facility will be 300 mW.
According to him, 126 schools will be commissioned this year.
the lease is executed for 20 years.
CIS was established on December 7, 1995.
The monument to the baiterek was unveiled on August 29, 2002.
- participation of 5 shares of legal entities for 457,949 thousand tenge
We have about 15 specialists.
50 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the implementation of the project.
At 142 enterprises, wage arrears have been completely eliminated.
then the book was translated into 30 languages.
Today, there are 15 thousand nuclear circles in the world.
A memorandum of cooperation for $600 million was concluded. 600 million dollars is directed in the framework of the signed memorandum of cooperation .
The total cost of the project is 1 million 679.6 million tenge.
Since the beginning of the year, 237 operations have been carried out. since the beginning of this year we have performed 237 operations .
and the year of commissioning - around 2020.
In 1995, the President of the country created an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
As a result, 40 documents were signed.
The event was attended by 100 pupils of orphanages.
We began to produce 400 types of new products.
in each region of the republic, 1258 people were members of the party.
The project will create 230 new jobs.	this project will create 230 new jobs .	4,70
Voting will last until October 8.	voting will last until oct 8 .	4,70
By autumn, another 600 people will be involved in work.	autumn works will employ 600 more .	4,71
for the first time in Kazakhstan took place on October 8-17, 2012.	for the first time they were held on 8-17 october 2012 in kazakhstan .	4,71
According to forecasts, the cost of investments is 130 million tenge.	the amount of the planned investment is more than 130 million tenge .	4,71
113 graduates took part in youth practice.	113 graduates participated in that program .	4,72
the power plant will produce 20 megawatts of energy.	the plant will produce 20 megawatts of power .	4,72
Thus, the total cost of the project is 36, 4 billion tenge.	thus , the total cost of the project is 36 , 4 billion tenge .	4,72
On 29 January 1996, Kazakhstan applied for WTO membership.	kazakhstan applied on january 29 , 1996 .	4,73
4 billion tenge was allocated for the repair of 43 channels of the region.	the state allocated 4 billion tenge to repair 43 watercourses .	4,73
27 commodity and fish farms will be established in South Kazakhstan region.	south kazakhstan region created 27 fisheries .	4,74
18 jobs will be created directly at the station.	18 new jobs have been created in the power station .	4,74
100 steps. "
it passes through the city at 12 sites.
In addition to the program, another 10 billion tenge will be allocated.
athletes won 26 licenses.
their first graduates were 446 students.
On October 5, we will hold a patriot forum. we host the forum of patriots on october 5 .
Completion of work on the sites is planned in 2016.
2659 objects worth 5.9 billion tenge were legalized.
100% sells the products of the enterprise.
the average range is about 800 kilometers.
The volume of investments in the project is estimated at 164 million US dollars.
The project was carried out for 8 years from 2007 to 2015.
The event was attended by representatives of 162 Member States.
Representatives of 28 countries arrived at the conference.
We've been good at helping businesses for 8 months. we 've actively helped enterprises within these 8 months .
This year it is planned to build 11 kindergartens. this year , 11 kindergartens will be built at the expense of the public investment .
97% of the raw materials we use are domestic.
78 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of these projects.
During two charity events 100 million tenge was collected.
Also the main prize-winner will receive 250 thousand tenge.
During two charity events 100 million tenge was collected.
there has been no such result over the past 10 years.
we expect to earn about 500 billion tenge.
as part of the training of the Tulpar Talgo team for two months, we trained 240 guides in English language courses.
We recently held a large forum in which we signed 14 memoranda.
259 million 553 thousand tenge was allocated from the local budget for these events.
In 10 areas, 7 reforms were carried out. there were 7 reforms in 10 areas .
The event was attended by 324 students from 83 countries.
The total cost of projects will be 20 billion tenge.
Construction work is scheduled to begin in April 2016.
CIS was established on December 7, 1995.
It is noted that the amount of imports during the reporting period amounted to 41 billion dollars.
To date, this group includes 20 countries. nowadays this group includes 20 countries .
in total, 244 schools are in the city, of which 202 are state.
The cost of building a factory is $20 million.
the plant plans to produce 10 thousand lamps per year.
October 1 marks the Day of the Elderly. october 1 - the day of older persons .
Last year, 93 thousand were produced. Products.
The cost of work is more than 30 million tenge.
projects are presented in 12 production sectors. the projects are presented in 12 industry sectors .
1,741 apartments have been commissioned.
For 2015, 28 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund.
The first to sit on the desk are 15 thousand first-graders.
A total of 52 projects in 15 areas.
it is at 50 percent.
25,000 people work at these facilities.
According to the results of the performance in Vitebsk, a graduate of the Kazakh National University of Arts scored 175 points.
The parade was attended by servicemen from 17 countries.
total construction cost - 126 million tenge.
Arujan is 11 years old, in a family of five brothers and sisters.
17 thousand mothers with many children live in the region.
their multinational family has 7 people.
70 people are involved in the construction, from August engineering networks will be built and walls will be erected by the end of August.
In general, this year this farm collected about 50 tons of apples.
The project is scheduled for completion in 2020.
It was opened in May 2014.
422 projects are considered the best. 422 projects are the best .
to date, 100% of the funds have been used.
It will be held in the capital on November 12.
The cost of the facility amounted to 5 billion tenge.
As a result, budget revenues decreased by 22%.
this will be done without a 10 per cent payment.
this is more than 6% of RK.
the docking of the ship with the station is scheduled for September 4.
September 7, 2015 amended.
In 15 years, everything will change. for 15 years , everything has changed .
1224 Mangistauts are aimed at social jobs.
the total number of rooms is 167 pieces.
The availability of textbooks for children is 100 per cent.
The remaining 104 km will be completed in 2016.
The company has created 30 new jobs.
delivery of textbooks is scheduled until August 10.
15 items were on the agenda. the agenda includes 15 issues .
Kazakhstani content at the enterprise is about 70%.
The project is scheduled for 2016.
Construction of the region's infrastructure began in June 2014.
They will last until June 10th.
The total cost of the project amounted to 665 million tenge.
1 billion 451 million tenge was allocated for these purposes.
The results of testing of 9 graduates are canceled.
The meeting will be attended by 58 young officers.
The project cost amounted to 21 million 230 thousand tenge.
winners will receive a reward of 1 million tenge.
now 17 pieces of equipment are involved in the construction. the construction work involves 17 vehicles .
over five years, it has improved in 39 categories.
In our opinion, about 30 thousand tons will be additionally imported under the agreement.
our action will be held in 14 regions of Kazakhstan. our action will take place in 14 regions of kazakhstan .
The project will be attended by 15 pilot cities of Kazakhstan. the project will involve 15 pilot kazakhstan cities .
the height of some of them is 12 meters.
3 patients were taken to the country from abroad.
the total cost of the project is 2 billion tenge.
In 2013, regional departments were merged.
in our region, this figure is still 27%.
12 cars were put up for parking.
As a result, 286 Mangistauts were employed.
The total cost of the project is $10 million.
in total, 37 people took part in the competition.
the number of employees decreased by 8 times.
24 brands are officially registered.
Member of the UN since 1991.
Another 10 projects are under consideration.
1 billion 332 million tenge was allocated for the project.
today 32 people work here.
Completion of construction is scheduled for 2016.
16 cases of administrative offenses have been instituted.
the procession will last about 40 days.
The company employs 236 people.
son 26, grandson 6 months.
double-double in 16 weight categories.
the couple were born in 1989.
A bilateral partnership in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy will begin in 2009.
Another 10 projects are undergoing examination.
It expires in 2015.
the unemployment rate was 5 per cent.
the area of ​ ​ the park is 9 hectares. the area of the park - about 9 hectares .
the share of Kazakhstani producers is 90%.
44 thousand children are brought up there today.
In 2014 - 9,833 people.
The project cost exceeds 11 billion tenge.
The final took place in 48 points.
that is, for each district there are 15 projects.
650 jobs have been created.
its height is 21 meters.
the cost of the project is 38 billion tenge. the cost of the project is 38 billion tenge .
8,748 students moved to grade 11.
The amount of projects is 318 billion tenge.
today there are 29 of them.
500 children attend the pool.
the number of employees is 50.
16 jobs have been created.
kindergarten is designed for 10 groups.
514 people were employed.
Project Name 603.
2015 was a landmark year in the history of independent Kazakhstan. 2015 is significant .
concession term 20 years.
UNT was conducted in 165 points.
I was 69 years old. i 'm 69 years old .
1987 children took part in the casting.
8 people work here.
the height of the building is 175 meters.
50 jobs will be created.
for example, 1945. first of all , 1945 .
project cost is 715 million tenge.
the amount of the project is 580 million tenge.
the program is designed for 2 years.
he picked up 182 kilograms.
the marathon will end on August 10.
in a family of 11 children.
Only 43 parks.
