job fair is good that here you can not only find a job, but also get the necessary advice, learn about other job opportunities.	according to the program , it 's free of charge .	0,10
he elaborated on the principles of Kazakhstan's inter-ethnic relations.	she elaborated on the principles of kazakhstan 's model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony , spoke about the achievements and characteristics of interethnic and interfaith relations , and the role and achievements of the assembly of people of kazakhstan in the implementation of ethnic policy as the unique institution that has no analogues in the world .	0,10
During the Great Patriotic War, the paramilitary actions of the Soviet troops contribute to the upbringing of the younger generation by military patriotism on the basis of the heroic actions of veterans of the Great Patriotic War.	this book will contribute to the military-patriotic education of the younger generation of the country as exemplified by famous heroes of wwii .	0,10
The head of state noted that this initiative is discussed by people, including members of labor collectives and public associations, intelligentsia, youth and the older generation.	the kazakh leader noted the proposal was submitted to the popular vote .	0,10
The Water Code introduces new concepts clarifying relations in the field of water supply and sanitation of settlements, regulates the organization of water supply and sanitation systems of settlements, defines the procedure for assigning settlements and their constituent elements to street systems of drinking water supply and sanitation systems, as well as their registration. "
this event was held as part of the project of the regional assembly "Assembly - the path to unity."
Aliyev citizen
today one of such persons is the President of Nazarbayev.
and veterans are grateful to young people who understand that this is our simple civic duty.
According to the results of the auction, a record amount was collected - 79,415,000 tenge.
strengthening the principle of meritocracy by promoting on a competitive basis only from among public servants holding lower posts of the highest corps b.
the second procedure is called "Khan's rise."
for this purpose the relevant documents are amended and supplemented.
The sides noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries and noted the importance of further deepening mutually beneficial relations, especially in the political, trade, economic, transport and transit spheres.
Thus, the khan and the veteran of the region will contribute to the law enforcement activities of the region.
with the advent of such complexes, the flow of medical tourists will be sent to our country.
According to the results of the championship, the military institute of the national guard took 1st place in the team competition, the military institute of the ground forces took 2nd place, the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications took 3rd place.
The site is designed to attract wide attention to the extraordinary election campaign, that is, the site is intended for direct elections and was created without the participation of both officials and party activists, "said B.Sadiev.
89 job fairs were held in the region during the reporting period, 48 of them for citizens with disabilities.
According to him, with the help of integration today, the possibility of sending various notifications, information and invitations to consumers on the basis of a system of joint legal proceedings with a mobile base of citizens, uniting more than 500 thousand consumers, is increasing.
Note that the head of state - the leader of the party "Nұr Otan" n.a. Nazarbayev 2015 March 11 will hold the next XVI Congress of the party "Nұr Otan" in Astana.
several rooms and libraries.
and increased responsibility of road users in the report
in accordance with the decision of the CIS Economic Council (09.12.2011), the Skolkovo Foundation was appointed its operator.
sport is of great importance in the development of any state, thanks to sports, other states and nations know that there is such a state in the world, the Kazakh population, like Kazakhstan. the development of sport in any country is very important .
the year was successful for athletes of the region.
During the conversation, the state and prospects of Kazakh-American relations, as well as topical issues on the international agenda were considered.
today, joint action in this area has resolved a number of issues and achieved good results.
It is worth noting that the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan considered the appeal of a number of citizens on holding early elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 14.
in children who had no joints, the neck was given the full responsibility of the family, and other difficulties they experienced from an early day.
loans at preferential interest are provided to citizens who want to engage in fish farming for up to five years.
The championship will be broadcast live on the Eurosport channel with an audience of 240 million viewers.
the jury of the competition considers all the works received, of which the three best are selected and the best of three are awarded, "said the managing director.
Chyongan anther analyzed the successes achieved thanks to the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, expressed confidence that Kazakhstan will conquer quarrels in the future and thanked our country for helping Vietnamese citizens
In connection with the situation in the financial market this year, our main goal is not to reduce funding, but to maximize financing, if possible, "said D. Makazhanov.
The head of Kazakhstan stressed that he is always looking for and finding new ideas related to the world economy.
Also during the meeting, a number of issues in the field of financial policy were discussed.
At the end of 2014, 127 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 10.25 thousand square meters were put into operation, which is comparable to apartments adjacent to the credit residential building No. 15 of the Nur Aktobe microdistrict and 24 apartments in the city of Khromtau for the administration's waiting lists.
65 veterans need to repair apartments, 53 - in household appliances and furniture, 4 - in wheelchairs, 10 - in hearing aids, 7 - in dental prosthetics.
According to the regional akimat, the preliminary speech was held with the participation of the head of the regional secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
voluntarily send it to another area to find yours.
Of course, memorable days will be celebrated by our people not for celebration, but for reflection on the future.
Earlier, the head of state instructed the state to resume holding forums on Kazakh content and continue to sign memoranda.
According to 81 registered complaints, the measures of the prosecutor's response protected the labor rights of more than two hundred citizens, paid wage arrears of more than 26 million tenge, "the report said.
Modern 3-ton milk-containing plants "fresh milk," brought from Russia, allow you to collect 850 liters of milk per day from the population and send them to dairy plants in the region.
"legislative provision of employment in the colonies (implementation of the decisions of the forum of the second prison reform)," "employment in the colonies - 2017," "deputy chairman of the committee of the penal system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan mayram ayubaev."
The meeting also approved the updated composition of the committee on the formation of the general electricity market of the council in connection with the existing personnel and structural changes in the executive committee bodies of the ECE member countries.
in this regard, members of the executive committee decided to support the candidacy of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the upcoming elections.
With retail stores located in the districts and cities of the region, explanatory work was carried out on the issue of preventing unreasonable margins on socially significant goods, a memorandum of cooperation was signed with the owners of retail outlets.
the regional perinatal center is a maternity care institution, the zoning of which belongs to level 3, where pregnant women, newborns and infants who came from 7 districts of the region in difficult conditions are considered.
The winners of the regional competition will take part in the republican round of Abai readings, which will be held in September this year in the Abai district of East Kazakhstan region.
currently, the owner needs to invest in the apron, strip and permanent restoration.
we call on all public associations and peoples of our country to unite and be united in the transition period, "he said.
when they travel or travel through a State, they bring magnetic images in memory of that trip.
As a result of the seminar, an exchange of views was held, as well as the distribution of materials in electronic form for all participants in the meeting.
According to the press service of the meeting, bills were submitted to the people's representatives regarding the ratification of the readmission agreement with Belarus, an agreement with the government of the Vietnamese state on avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in relation to income taxes, as well as an agreement on the extradition of Hungarian and the transfer of convicted persons.
you serve fruitfully in every sphere, along with the preservation of family well-being.
since Kazakhs in China and Turkey study in Arabic, we are working not only on our works, but also with the help of my students to write a number of works by Kazakh writers and scientists.
More than 850 observers from all over the world, 170 journalists from 40 countries watched the elections, before which we demonstrated the unity, trust, internal consent of Kazakhstan, "said N. Nazarbayev.
plant for the manufacture of reinforced concrete products
It will be attended by servicemen of the republican school named after the national hero of the army general sagadat nurmagambetov "Young Guard" from the structural units of the central apparatus of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, directorates of the commanders of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, military units of the Akmol garrison, as well as servicemen of the republican school with a total number of about 2,400 people.
The past year has become new for the Kazakh people.	as the president said ,  if there is no comfort and quality roads , there is no development of a competitive industrial base , no prospective scientific technology , no high standard of living .
creation of a professional state apparatus
we will have to spend, but it will not reach 30-50 billion dollars.
today is also a high demand for donor blood.
from fire prevention instructor to deputy chief.
After that, in the first June 2015, it is planned to begin pre-design work.
also reduced the period for verification by territorial election commissions of signatures in support of the candidate from 10 to 5 days.
Deputy Prosecutor of Almaty Zhuraliyev's speech is devoted to measures to ensure the legality of the election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Almaty, as well as the legal consequences of violation of electoral law.
34 of them were implemented.
if in each area two organizational courts work independently from each other, if all cases reach a situation where they independently make decisions from each other and consider only one general leadership, then, as they say, there will be no problems.	according to beknazarov , each regional court has judges of appeal and judges of cassation .	0,14
In 2014, 351.6 million tenge was used to teach specialties necessary for the labor market of the region.	602 additional jobs have created .	0,14
According to the ministry, during the meeting he noted that to some extent we have made progress in the development of the institution of children's rights, the country is guaranteed the right to receive quality education.	the right to quality education , and health care ensured in the country .	0,14
In addition, today the first deputy akim of the region and akims of districts and cities were visited by the shanyrak of eighteen veterans living in Shymkent and its districts.	after the war , returned home from 1946 to 1979 he was engaged in matters of education .	0,14
In accordance with the terms of interbank financing, partner banks are prohibited from investing in financial instruments and/or transactions with them, as well as in the purchase of foreign currency in the foreign exchange market.	dbk will hold a regular monitoring of the development of credit resources and their use .	0,14
diversification of the economy is of great importance, and it is steadily implemented in the course of all strategic plans, from strategies-2030, "strategy-2050" to the preparation of the leadership of the president of the republic through various road maps implemented in this area.
in turn, ya. Chikhanchin noted that cooperation between the two countries has a great future, 5 institutional reforms proposed by the President of Kazakhstan are one of the concrete steps towards the entry of our country into the 30 developed countries of the world.
Improve the status of law enforcement officials and their accountability to citizens.	some 2,000 people attended the party congress .	0,14
In addition, the population shows high interest in the housing and communal services program, which allows apartment owners to repair the general property of apartment buildings at the expense of state funds on a return basis.	in addition , five projects of heating worth 1.6 billion tenge were implemented .	0,14
in addition, entrepreneurship absorbs consciousness.	it provides the courses of motivation and negotiation , as well as learning of the basics of sales and development of business thinking .	0,14
During the meeting the Governor of Almaty region gave a welcoming speech on the projects to be implemented together with the local chamber of entrepreneurs. governor of almaty region amandyk batalov made a welcome speech at the meeting .
reorganization of the Kazakh government
Therefore, the Kazakhstan Institute should make efforts to prepare its methodology on the criteria for perceiving corruption, "said Ricardo Pelizzo, professor at the Nazarbayev University Higher School of Public Policy.
According to the Ministry, questions on this topic of video sessions should be sent to the state revenue departments in the regions and cities of Almaty, the capital or to an electronic address, video seminars will be published on the web portal of the state revenue department of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the association "Kazenerjee" and the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation.
There is also an English version of the site, the press service of the Eurasian Economic Commission reports.
members of our team sent to the regional branch of the party a proposal to rename this primary party organization in honor of the only hero of the Soviet Union in Kazakhstan, Ivan Vasilyevich Kosenkov.	the solemn ceremony took place within the republican campaign  20 well doings . "
In addition, Agroecoproduct LLP plans to build a production greenhouse in Kyzylorda with an area of ​ ​ 5.7 hectares and launch a rice processing plant in Kyzylorda with a capacity of 12 tons per hour for 2015.
The Governor of the region alibek zhakanbayev made a report on the socio-economic development of the Alakol region in 2014 and on priority areas for 2015.
In these competitions, the Kazakhstani military took one of the leading places.
camila amirova
photographed citizen of Aliyev
however, when the international situation worsens, fundamental positions should be maintained, such as the peaceful resolution of contradictions of international law, the refusal to use the threat of the use of force, violation of territorial integrity and borders.
rapid control of ambulance calls and use of services through automated cards improve the quality of medical care.
The prosecutor's office of the Karaganda region on a call to the call center "svita security" defended the labor rights of k.zhienbaev. the employer is subject to administrative liability in the form of a fine.
It is worth noting that non-governmental organizations work successfully in the region and with their help budget organizations implement all social orders.
every man must defend his homeland.
According to him, if the same amount of funds is not allocated for 2016, then a subsidy measure will be carried out or infrastructure grants will be allocated so that there is no increase in tariffs.
There were no special studies.
At the launch of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2015, savings from many types of transportation will amount to $250 million, Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov said in the Central Communications Service.
and doctors received more than 400 people and provided them with professional assistance at a high level.
The cost of the project is 104 million tenge.
In general, the commission headed by Major General of Aviation Nurlan Ormanbetov conducted an audit of the Almaty garrison.
According to him, their delegations were at polling stations.
When the wretched hands of the veteran warrior trembled and listened to the rumors said, the vicious moment of the war seemed involuntary to us.
command flights are a kind of standard for organizing and conducting flights.
secondly, the election campaign itself and the elections showed that the president of the country is the backbone of the state as a strong unifying, integration factor of the Kazakh public.	the elections also showed an increase of political culture and citizenship of kazakhstan .	0,17
It is also possible within ten working days to independently adjust the damage detected after a camera customs inspection.	and also at independent elimination of the violations revealed by the results of cameral customs inspection within ten working days from the date of the delivery following behind day to the checked face of the notice of elimination of violations by results of cameral customs inspection , independent identification and voluntary elimination of violations within one year after release of goods before carrying out exit customs inspection .	0,17
according to the head of the holding, the future "hundreds of young people studying under the program work in national companies and government agencies.
in farms and peasant farms, measures were taken to improve the quality of seeds of uterus of 44.0 thousand head of cattle and 125.0 thousand heads of sheep.
Also, the head of Kaa stressed that the civil alliance will not cooperate with the Belarusians, but in the future cooperation will be established with the Belarusian side.
The competition, which will be held from April 1 to May 1, 2015, will be able to be attended by all graduates of the 2015 school year studying in schools and colleges of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of state, "in order for our descendants to stand firmly on their feet, we must know that we had a country that remained from our ancestors, that it was a khanate, that they fought for this land, that bloodshed."
legal and preventive measures will reduce the number of adherents of the radical idea.
It is worth noting that the action in Karaganda region is a continuation of large-scale events launched in Almaty.
the life of veterans of the Great Patriotic War is a vivid example of national spirit and patriotism, patriotism.	we will always remember about your exploits .	0,17
this year a large number of polling stations,	the number of polling stations is more this year , serious work of the cec and the governor 's offices is felt .	0,17
Netembayev, having got acquainted with the process of reforming the system of local self-government in the state, noted that during it the experience of Poland is taken into account.	y.utembayev also informed on the reform of local government in the country .	0,17
in our area there is a tradition to celebrate the merits of great people and public figures.
also during the tactical episode, an operation was carried out to free the hostages.
reform of the state apparatus and fair growth in position, stimulation of public servants improve the quality and effectiveness of decisions taken.
this event is led by the headquarters of the regional command "Capital."
Visitors to the exhibition tell each other that the Kazakhstan pavilion is one of the most visited.
According to the National Museum, the purpose of the competition is to draw public attention to the most important events of Kazakh history, thereby increasing the respect of the young generation for the future and history of their native Kazakhstan.
this will be carried out through housing construction savings, "said S. Kulagin.
Capital Service and Procurement Center Vegetable Storage LLP "a"
the exhibition provides participants with new opportunities for business development.
- the total number of participants in competitions is about 450 people.
improving the quality of goods and services produced for Kazakhstan under the conditions of the Eurasian Economic Union with the World Trade Organization.
iv. Homogeneity and unity
audit work allows entrepreneurs to focus on improving the quality of their products, regardless of whether it is a foreign or domestic producer.
Sergey Polishchuk, General Director of Ergonomics LLP, which supplied new energy-saving equipment, noted that these devices are guaranteed for a period of five years.
these funds will be transferred to akimats in the form of targeted transfers and according to the plan will be paid.
Eurasia is forming a new pole of today's economic activity, which in the future will become the driving force and source of world development, and this trend is taking place against the background of the eurozone's openness to cooperation with other economic unions and states.
Within the framework of the forum, memorandums of cooperation will be implemented.
photographed by a citizen of Aliyev
aliyeva photographed citizen
aliyeva photographing citizen
aliyeva with photo
The action starts on May 15 with a flash mob for young people.
The Chairman of the meeting noted that 20 years ago, Kazakhstanis adopted the law of Santa Claus through a national referendum, which, along with a political and legal document defining the strategic direction of the development of the young state, became an important state and public value that laid the foundations for the formation of Kazakhstani citizenship and patriotism.
According to the expert of the international Turkic Academy Timur Kozyrev, the Kazakh model of inter-ethnic cooperation is that in the future a special culture of tolerant behavior has developed, which does not attract special attention.
According to him, representatives of the Institute of Public Policy of the Nұr Otan Party adhere to cross-sectoral and cross-platform approaches to the preparation of a national corruption perception index.
The head of the city noted that the main problem in making conceptual decisions should be related to the metro, and in the future, cars and metrobuses will become a priority.
The project "mathematics and art" of bakhtiyar rakhmetov, a student of the 11th grade of secondary school No. 6 in the village of Karaotkel, Tselinograd district, was also recognized as worthy of 1st place.
recently, the credit partnership, together with the "agricultural credit corporation," has increased the annual volume of lending.
after their approval by the head of state, the parliament will be entrusted with the prompt legislative provision of the entire range of measures for the modernization of the country.
our exports to Russia and Belarus grew by 63%, including the output of processed goods increased by 2 times.
It is worth noting that tomorrow, May 5, a dress rehearsal of a significant military parade in the capital will take place.
Last year, in order to provide the population with quality and cheap vegetables and agricultural products, 60 fairs worth 266 million tenge were held at prices below market prices by 15-20%, the department said.
the period of disbursement of credit funds (from the moment of receipt of funds to the accounts of partner banks) for loans for investment purposes - 18 months, for the purpose of replenishment of working capital and refinancing of previously issued loans - 6 months.
The head of state will take part in the opening of the monument to General I. Panfilov.
is an effective tool in finding systemic solutions to increase the equality and effectiveness of state financial control between state bodies and civil society institutions, as well as in countering corruption that has become current, "said the first deputy chairman of the regional branch of the Serik Mukan party.
On behalf of the troops of the airmobile troops, bearing a special military origin, the paratroopers of the capital's brigade acted.
The issues of enhancing the role of a lawyer in the criminal process, further humanization of judicial practice against persons who compensated for losses were also discussed.
our veteran came to the fire department with an increased mood, inspired firefighters and spoke about his life.
non-profit non-governmental site, based on election2015.kz.
refined and improved the basis of technical regulations of the customs union in the railway industry by adopting a list of optimized standards.	moreover , the list of standards as a result of their application , on a voluntary basis , the abidance of the technical regulations of the cu  on the safety of railway infrastructure " is carried out and the list of standards containing the rules and methods of researches ( tests ) and measurements , including the rules of sampling required for the implementation and enforcement of the requirements of technical regulations and implementation of assessment ( confirmation ) of conformity .
they teach school teachers in level III.
of these, 23 are directly involved in production.
Despite the fact that the city of Kokshetau is located in the innermost zone of the country, dozens of citizens made a great contribution to the victory.
in addition, the army and types of weapons of the Great Patriotic War period with modern armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be presented here.
It is worth noting that today among the users of the execution, the activity of voters has significantly increased.
Taking into account the conceptual directions of the main bill, this bill proposes to amend and supplement a number of legislative acts.
The bills provide for a number of other changes, such as the repeal of articles allowing for corruption.
Since 2006, students of universities and colleges will travel by city public transport at a discount, and representatives of talented youth are awarded an annual scholarship.
In the program of the visit. Tokayev - meetings with the heads of large foundations - the president of Asian society, the president of the Eurasia group, etc., the highest representative of the alliance of civilizations N.An.Nasser, the general secretary of the conference "Religion for Peace" Wendley and representatives of the New York religious association.
The adoption of the bill contributes to improving the effectiveness of serving sentences, including non-custodial sentences, improving the state of resocialization of persons released from institutions of deprivation of liberty, and reducing the level of crimes, including recurring ones.
The solemn part of the holiday was continued by the concert program of artists of the Solinbay Regional Philharmonic.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today the state provides comprehensive support to domestic culture and art.
Famous people of the city congratulated the festival guests in a special way, and the sponsors organized various interesting events.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
aliyev, who photographed
aliyev, who photographed
On the agenda of the conference, as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, the progress of the party project "Veterans of the ardaқtayy" was discussed, in the second part delegates were elected to the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan party.
it was decided to create a logistics hub, which is being worked on in some regions of the country.
prize of the competition - 1 place 200 thousand tenge (in addition, a personal photo exhibition from photographs of the 1st place holder will be organized in the national museum), 2nd place 200 thousand tenge, 3rd place 100 thousand tenge.
the meeting discussed innovations in education in the tourism sector.
Recall that the first world championship in togyzkumalak was held in 2010 in the capital, the second world championship in 2012 in Czech Pardubice.
The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan announces the preliminary results of voter turnout at 22-00 o'clock.
The purpose of the bill is to further improve the informatization of Kazakhstani society through the legislative introduction of an effective informatization organization system that meets modern international standards.
among them are the heroes of the Soviet Union, khiuaz dospanov, small gabdullin, baurzhan momyshuls, rakhymzhan koshkarbayev, kara sipatai, nikolai tereshchenko, aliya moldagulova, manshuk mametova, leonid trouble, sagadat nurmagambets, talgat begeldins and nurken abdirov.
you achieve these long-awaited desires today thanks to Nursultan Nazarbayev's concern for youth.
It is worth noting that the implementation of these projects will satisfy the needs of the population in air transport, connect the regions with the capital, increase the speed of interaction of the population, reduce unemployment in the regions.
It is worth noting that in 2014 12.7 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of hydraulic structures and the repair of 38 facilities.
it specifically defines the culture and traditions of the countries celebrating this ancient holiday.
According to the head of state, thanks to internal stability, Kazakhstan is developing all sectors of the economy, culture, education at a high pace and should maintain this advantage.
Recall that in 1990, demand amounted to about 66 million barrels per day, and in 2000 - 76 million.
Soviet people for their homeland, for the country, for the generation.
Over the past five years alone, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries participating in the customs union has grown by 88% and reached $24 billion.
According to the results of the competition, an archive of photo documents of memorable dates of our history will be created in the national museum.
Members of their families, colleagues, young activists and public organizations, residents and guests of the region came to share their joy with WWII veterans.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
who photographed an Aliyev citizen
gerard van boheman paid special attention to inter-ethnic and interfaith harmony in the country.
The purpose of the seminars is to familiarize participants with international innovations in the field of public services, to stimulate the exchange of knowledge and experience in this field between young scientists of Great Britain and Kazakhstan.
the Russian delegation and their accompanying representatives went with growth to the city center, where border outposts of the East Kazakhstan region are held, where the ceremony of awarding the victory relay symbols to weddings of neighboring regions is held.
expenses of the program (travel, hostel, scholarship) will be reimbursed at the expense of the Indonesian side.
Laureates of republican competitions from schools of the city showed their performance by art students.
- apply special tax regimes
information about this was published by the Italian National Institute of Statistics (istat) on its website.
In particular, our region is a vivid example of the unshakable pattern of interethnic relations, unity of ethnic groups and targeted mobilization.
residents no longer go to the district center to look at the doctor
Also, all republican theaters and concert organizations included performances about the exploits of our front-line soldiers during the war years in their repertoire.
the building is fully equipped with engineering infrastructure.
homogeneity and unity
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
type of issue - a sheet of the brand.
it will serve society and people.
the work of medical trains continues.
Because last year an agreement was signed in the capital on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, from September 1 an action on the legalization of property began, ministries were simplified and a new government was created.
in general, the aircraft is able to perform a wide range of combat missions at a significant distance from the base around the clock, in any weather conditions, despite the information and fire opposition of the enemy.
industrialization is not only an instrument of the economy, but also industrialization is an important factor in the development of the state, "said N. Nazarbayev.
they are interested in carrying out construction work and modernizing the country's infrastructure.
300 thousand tenge was allocated for sporting events, as well as assistance to Afghan soldiers.
Under the leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the most important principle of the country's policy is the preservation of peace and tranquillity.	109 east kazakhstan soldiers were awarded the title hero of the soviet union .	0,22
because they show individual visual experience.	erarta museum aims to discover , research , collect and popularize works of art created by talented contemporary artists of russia .	0,22
this does not mean forgiving the loan, but facilitating the conditions for it, "he said.
On behalf of the Head of State, he noted the importance of increasing the share of national composition in consumer products of the population.
May 1 - a holiday of the immutable friendship of the people of Kazakhstan, eternal love for the Motherland!
and in Semipalatinsk there will be an event "Meetings with a brother" - "Abaevsky events," dedicated to the 170th anniversary of abai.
I sincerely wish the people of Kazakhstan good and peace.
Governor of the city Y. Zhanbyrshin, Consul General of the Republic of Azerbaijan R. Mammadov took part in the event, the Governor of the city reported. First Deputy Chairman of the akf party "Nұr Otan" R. Shalbaev, members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the Mangistau region, leaders of ethnocultural associations, residents and representatives of gardens.
in addition to tours for museum visitors, special concert programs will be presented in cultural places.
In addition, I think that our children living in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan will see a bright future and will be happy.
K.Massimov noted the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, the active activities of the Kazakh-Turkish intergovernmental commission and close ties between the business community.
The Chairman of the Union of Education and Science Workers, Mayra Amantayeva, emphasized the social significance of this agreement.
Following the meeting, the parties decided to focus the efforts of young people on the fight against corruption.
During the search work, the remains of about 950 people were discovered, among which a native of the Aktobe region was identified.
Frequency from metal 9999.
now the elder remembers those very harsh periods and wants peace on earth.
- Marine local differential station (bautino, Caspian Sea coast) at the port (harbor) and during maneuvers and within the declared area of work generates and distributes corrective information to the navigation signals of the guzh in radio beacon mode in order to ensure the safety of ships.
More than a thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
Recall that at the plenary session of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan the meeting was approved, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Peacekeeping Activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan" was adopted.
The result of a long, talented work was the restoration of the technology of famous Kazakh jewelers of the 18th-19th centuries (gold-embroidered objects ("zer") made exclusively for noble people: khans, dances, sultans).
They also discussed with Kazakhstan the situation with the optimization of the visa regime.
Therefore, all cases are transferred to the documentation department so that there is no connection between the applicant and the executor, "said the deputy head of the North Kazakhstan region of the Ismagulov.
Nevertheless, investors in our country plan to implement very large projects.
As part of the delegation, the chairman of the civil gathering of representatives of the district of the capital was the last nambaatar of the hishgee and the chairman of the board of directors of the national investment bank of Mongolia, banzragch bayarsaikhan.
more than a hundred thousand veterans who won regional competitions performed at the festival, and they were selected by a commission of highly qualified specialists.
persons equated with participants and disabled persons, citizens who contributed to the victory - 70 thousand tenge, spouses, parents of military personnel who died during the Second World War, residents of besieged Leningrad and prisoners until adulthood - 30 thousand tenge - in concentration camps, ghettos and other places of forced detention created by the Nazis and their allies during the Second World War.
aliyev photographer
a compact central apparatus of the agency is also formed, consisting of two main and one auxiliary directions, its representative offices are located on the ground.
our plant will produce metal products on a quarterly order.	the unique plant will produce the highest quality heat-strengthened track length of 120 meters , which can be used on high-speed lines and lines with high traffic volumes .	0,23
The very high participation rate of the Kazakh people in the elections is a manifestation of unconditional support not only for your many years of selfless work for the benefit of the people, but also for the goals you set for the further comprehensive development of the country.
it varies in the degree of harm caused by the criminal actions of a private detective.
Recall that tank biathlon is a competition in which crews know how to conduct tanks and deploy the process of targeted shooting.
plant for production of special electric transformer substations
The train "My Kazakhstan" began its trip on March 23 from the capital, and until April 22 it will stop at 27 stops of Kazakhstan posts.
Stressing that it was the USSR that made a decisive contribution to the victory against the coalition of Nazis, the chairman of the Senate declared the inadmissibility of falsifying the history of the Great Patriotic War: "Whatever political aspirations, such aspirations that sacrifice historical reality will have negative consequences for the international situation and the world order as a whole."
Goods of the customs union placed under the customs export procedure may be stored in a customs warehouse for six months;
this is higher than 2008.
I invite everyone to participate in the elections and vote.
During the meeting, the request of Senator K. Aitakhanov was heard to take comprehensive measures to perpetuate the memory of the famous Kazakh diplomat N. Tnrekulova.
now it will change dramatically, specialized organizations will appear, "said S. Belov.
Therefore, the generosity of the victories of the older generation in the fight against fascism becomes brighter every year, "said the rashid of the Dzhakupov.
An excursion of department employees to the exhibition dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory on May 6 in the art gallery of the city of Shymkent is also planned.
this year, the international course takes place for the second time.
the information group began its work by visiting the Karlag camp in order to worship the spirits of victims of political repression.
It should be noted that out of 14 citizens who applied for elections, only the candidacy of the koishieva estuary was recognized in accordance with all laws.
He assured that he would make every effort to further develop relations between Kazakhstan and Kuwait.
we have taken a new path - foreign direct investment, we can attract investors and do it faster, "Dosaev continued.
105 delegates from Almaty region are expected to attend.
The large-scale action is organized by akimat of VKO and school of a name of of a serikbayev.
Since last year, in connection with the issues of supporting entrepreneurs, as well as minimizing administrative barriers, protecting the rights of business representatives, we have established constructive relations with the Almaty akimat of the country's largest metropolis, where the bulk of business is concentrated.
The XXII session of the assemblies of the people of Kazakhstan showed that the people of Kazakhstan under your leadership are fundamentally ready to conquer social and economic heights. your convincing victory in the elections was an expression of the will to support the reform of your course !
Kazakhstani entrepreneurs are confident that the decision will give impetus to the work of the draft Customs Code of the EAEU.
In 2014, 4,000 people arrived at youth resource centers to receive advice in various areas.
on the edges of the ribbon is the Order of the Great Patriotic War.
Victory Day is a sacred holiday for the CIS countries.	the campaign was held together with the parliament of kazakhstan and mayor 's office of astana city .	0,24
at the same time, special attention should be paid to the cleaning and improvement of areas adjacent to polling stations, residential areas, suburban areas and markets.	the mayor said that all citizens must participate in the litter pick .	0,24
In accordance with the norm of the constitution, we deputies should appeal to the head of state Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev with a request to support the proposal of the Council of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan to hold early presidential elections, "the speaker of the lower house read out an appeal on behalf of the deputies to the Head of State.
next year is a year of respect for our deep history, legal basis, and prosperous unity.
The draft agenda of the plenary meeting contains a question on the amendments and additions made by the Senate to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of legal regulation of the field of intellectual property.
There is also a festival of friendship of the people of Kazakhstan, "he said.
thanks for the feat you showed, what happiness it is that today our generation lives with such a hero, "said commander 30131 a/b Major Erlan Abitai and commander 55078 a/b Colonel Serik Escaliyev.
The design of the restaurant hall of the recreation complex uses the best works of European and national themes.
It was also noted that bilateral business forums will be held, which will give an additional impetus to the intensification of business relations.
activists will work on separate collection of plastic, considering ways of separate collection of garbage, among which are grants for the implementation of the ideas of those who created the group.
He also thanked the representative office for its attention to the problem of reclamation of lands located in the zone of the Semipalatinsk test site and island sea, "the report said.
a lot of work awaits us to implement them.
Order of Honor, jubilee medals "20 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "10 years of the capital."
at present, this leads to a fall in the prices of gold and precious metals.
at the festive event included in the musical and musical program of the best creative groups in Karaganda, images of history were shown.
In addition, as the observer noted, in Kazakhstan more and more people go to the polls, even at polling stations queues are formed.
Within the framework of the action, a model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony of N.A. Nazarbayev will be presented.	a widespread presentation of the kazakh model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony of n.nazarbayev will be held during the event .	0,24
The bill provides for the approval of special requirements for the content of information products for children of different age groups, taking into account the psychophysiological characteristics of children.	during the work on the bill the mps have made amendments that are aimed at the consolidating of the mechanism of examination of information products , setting requirements to the experts , the determination of the order of accreditation of experts and expert organizations , delimitation of competences of state bodies regulating this area , as well as clarifying certain provisions , improving the content of the bill .	0,24
Our students and teachers took an active part in it - said the rector of the university.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan demonstrates to the whole world the success of Kazakhstan's policy in the field of inter-ethnic relations.
after the ceremony, more than 450 servicemen ran three kilometers to the Bauyrzhan momyshuly monument in honor of a significant day
the portal contains an interactive interface from the information and analytical site to the portal, which allows you to manage payment services online.
Head of the Department of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan spoke about the most important factors of national history.
the weight of such articles is often below 1 kg.
At the last stage, a novice entrepreneur begins to enter the market with the improvement of an experienced entrepreneur.
it is important to work on a methodology adapted for Kazakhstan.
During the conference, it was about the unconstructive behavior of parents who meet with psychologists, parents of graduates in preparation for the exam - recklessness, irresponsibility and cruelty, bullying and intimidation of children.
This contributes to the construction of cranes of the enterprise itself.
A new package of measures for foreign investors within the framework of the new industrial policy will be presented during the forum.
that is, 3 times.
it is planned that such concert programs will be held in other areas of the country.
aliyev photographer
For the first time since the beginning of the work of the "Bobruiskagromash" in Kokshetau, a joint Kazagrobel project was implemented with the Belarusian project.
At the same time, the Governor of the region, taking advantage of the activation of inspections in small and medium-sized businesses next year, instructed to prevent unauthorized inspections of inspectors.
He also noted that in order to popularize and imitate future generations of citizens of the country who showed courage during the Great Patriotic War, a plan is being considered to provide social objects in the name of heroes, write scientific articles about them, publish books, and shoot documentaries.
During the meeting, the view was expressed that this experience should be further applied.
It is noted that during the spring conscription campaign (April-June 2015) about 15 thousand teenagers of draft age who do not have the right to postpone conscription and release from the army will be drafted into the Kazakh army.
The purpose of this event is to help bring as many of the country's enterprises to escort as possible, "the information says.
we are developing the industry, because in market conditions, the main issue facing the state is the creation of jobs, and the rest of the person must do himself.
botagose aitzhanova
a common people cannot be a khan.
the atmosphere and acoustics of the hall presented new melodies performed by the pianist.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 3 industrial zones have been created in South Kazakhstan region.
At the same time, in 2015-2016. strengthening the world order in accordance with the law, maintaining peacekeeping forces, etc.
The purpose of the competition is to reveal the region's opportunities in the field of green technologies, increase the importance of using new technologies, attract young talents to the field of science and new technologies, identifying potential participants in the expo-2017 and oskemen expo-2015 exhibitions.
K. Dzhakupov noted that Russia is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan and noted that thanks to the agreements of the heads of the two countries, cooperation is gaining momentum every year.
Within the framework of this plan, it is planned to prepare a set of measures to ensure occupational safety and health, providing for preventive measures in relation to the protection of the life and health of the employee.	astana hosts the 5th anniversary kazakhstan international conference and exhibition on occupational safety and security .	0,25
950 million tenge was allocated for the development of programs, the vice minister said.
read an excerpt from the work of Bauyrzhan momyshula, answered the question asked by the members of the commission. realized that he understood his grim prose.
in an introductory speech, the chairman of the council, rector of the Academy of Bolatbek Abdrazilov noted the importance of discussing topical issues of teaching public servants the state language, forming unified approaches to the subject and technology of linguistics.
in the same year he participated in battles on the Kalinin Front.
According to him, military training was organized by order of the Ministry of Defense, and military personnel who passed tests during training were awarded diplomas and valuable gifts.
On November 13, 2012, a copy of the battle flag of 72 guards was solemnly presented at the Battle of Stalingrad panoramic museum.
On the direct instructions of the head of state, the country provides great support to veterans.
different industries will develop.
"Nation Plan -100 Steps for All."
now akimats of districts and cities solve these issues.
Therefore, I ask you to consider supporting regional leaders with the heads of national companies, heads of large enterprises.
The agreement provides for the purpose of extending the grace period for the repayment of principal and payment of remuneration under the budget loan issued for the implementation of the Baiterek space rocket system project until 2019 by making appropriate changes.
flowers, food and a monetary gift were presented to the guest of honor as a sign of gratitude and respect.
defines the most developed qualities in his life.	thus , as the chief of the department noted , the career cards are used abroad , this document is formed at arrival for civil service .	0,25
meetings of the central election commission were open to observers and representatives of the media.	the cec sessions were open to the observers , agents and the media .	0,25
in addition, from the pages of the site you can get acquainted with the plan of activities approved by the government, held in the framework of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	the site also shows the government even list .	0,25
and the basis of historical consciousness, the core of which, as the head of state said, will be all-Ukrainian unity.	it is the core of kazakhstani identity .	0,25
The forum was attended by many participants - presidents and heads of government, ministers of foreign affairs and defense, experts on international relations.	the munich security conference is an annual conference held in munich ( germany ) since 1962 .	0,25
Also, a business incubator and a center for servicing entrepreneurs will be opened in the oil region, "said the acting head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning.
among them, changing the address data, the need to replace license documents or driver's licenses, changing the order in preschool institutions and others.
As noted in the Prosecutor General's Office, from the date of entry into force of the moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized enterprises, there were no signals of mass violations of the terms of the moratorium.
We think about increasing production and the mining and metallurgical industry for employing people in difficult times, because jobs are reduced there, production volumes are reduced.
this is a long-standing work of a group of authors, among whom were famous correspondents, polygraphists, museum workers, and the military.
The participants of the event paid tribute to the dead on the fronts and declared a minute of silence.
According to the department, applicants for the scholarship must be fluent in English enough to get an education.
Advisor to the President of Turkey congratulated the people of Kazakhstan on the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, celebrated in 2015, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan.
This agro-industrial complex for milk processing in the region is equipped with high-tech imported special devices.
According to him, the bill provides for a measure to acquire the status of oralman in the field of ethnic migration.
the new Code of Administrative Offences also regulates fines imposed on small entrepreneurs. the ministry of justice , based on the instructions that were given by the head of state and the concept of legal policy until 2020 , addressed to reduce the repressive of the former administrative violations code , " zauresh baimoldina said during the ccs media briefing .
the most important thing for a working person is to keep your workplace, I say as a former working person. to keep job is a top goal of working man .
sending foreign managers, individual specialists of the private sector, citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who are employees of international organizations.
Aset Issekeshev also visited a number of production facilities in the region.
a year of kha takes place in such a beautiful courtyard.
author of botagosis of aitzhanov
Parliamentary Secretary E.Pam. noted the significant potential of Latvia in the field of renewable energy, thanks to which about 36% of the country's capacity is currently produced.
For the participants of the agreement, social partnership will increase the interest of each of the parties, "the akim of the region said at the opening of the meeting.
these products are considered historical, ancient.
- Licensing of selected activities
there is also a decrease in crime, which is an indicator of the assessment of the real criminal situation around the world.
in the steppe, according to the approved schedule, it passes between 4 regions of Kazakhstan in the west.
silver electrolysis shop.
before signing the memorandum, a round table was held at K. Zhubanov State University.
The volume of gross output in agriculture amounted to 412.4 billion tenge, the industry produced products for 537.3 billion tenge.
To date, the prosecutor's office has not received any complaints about violations of voting conditions, as well as information about cases that impede the exercise of citizens' electoral rights. there are no complaints , appeals , violations of the voting , and the facts of disturbance .
3 years ago, we witnessed that our athletes won 7 gold medals in London and reached 12th place in the team event.
The head of the TOR, entrepreneur Salaat Tanabaev restored the old building and brought equipment from Russia.
Due to the lack of a unified base of state orders for the city, there are significant difficulties in monitoring work in this direction.
these funds were used to address the most pressing issues for the region.
It is noted that the concept of a common energy market (oen) of the Eurasian Economic Union (eeo), developed by the commission together with the departments and ministries of the member states of the union, has already been approved.
In addition, as part of the exhibition, schoolchildren of the city were trained in their poems covering anti-corruption topics.
the results of the Olympics will be announced in the regions of the republic on June 20 - on the Day of the Medical Worker.
To date, repair work has begun at the plant, "said the Governor of the region.
In connection with the asked question about the pedestrian bridge across the railway tracks in the village of Pyatigorsk, the Governor of the region instructed the head of the regional department of roads and passenger transport E. Zhasybayev.
and the accompanying document provides for amendments to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On advocacy," since the draft code introduces a new method of reconciliation with the participation of lawyers - "partisan procedure," which allows participants in a dispute to negotiate through the direct active participation of lawyers.
This year, 9 investment projects worth 6945 million tenge will be implemented in the sphere of agriculture, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
I think that, looking at this, you thought in vain that we were not for nothing bloody.
Thus, the Governor's Office of the capital during the meeting signed memoranda with the Ministries of Health, Culture, Sports, Social Protection, Employment and Education for the period until 2015-2017.
the ferry complex in the village of Kuryk is adapted for transshipment of khtt (consumer goods).
Summing up the results of the meeting, the Governor of the region drew the attention of representatives of financial institutions to the need to create branches in his line in all regions of the region.
This brigade was formed at this school in the fall of 1941.
in the future, construction owners will hold public hearings on approved projects.
the data center was launched as part of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020" and the program on forced industrial and innovative development.
Within the framework of the conference, an exhibition of achievements of domestic science will be organized, aimed at reflecting and publishing the results of scientific research of Kazakh sciences according to the results of 2011-2014.
At secondary school No. 45 in Aktobe, work is underway to improve the professional qualifications of teachers, based on the tasks set at the state level.	it would have been much more difficult to realize this idea without the assistance from the financial institutions .	0,27
In the message of the Head of our State in the Karaganda region, "connected with the beginning of the construction of the highway, we brewers gladly welcome us.
secondly, the published data on the victory of the head of state in the framework of exit-poll data indicate that the local population attaches its hopes to its activities.	we can say that this is a good work of the electoral commission  - the analyst said .
everyone knows that in all military conflicts, whites ordered to take artisans into dark captivity.
but we have an alternative to this surgery, we do artificial heart implantation.
Today, another hotbed is included in the number of centers of public consent in the region, which will work to strengthen friendship and harmony in the country.	every nationality in kazakhstan is not the diaspora but single people of kazakhstan .	0,27
It is worth noting that during the XXII session, the head of state awarded anniversary medals to activists who made a significant contribution to strengthening public harmony and developing the unity of the country since the creation of the assembly.	in the course of the 22nd sessions the president presented jubilee medals to some members and activists of the apk who were one of the creators of the assembly .	0,27
because you deserve it, "said N. Nazarbayev.
to reduce the amount of time spent on customs procedures.
the most interesting thing is that if you fill these lamps in the heads and light bracelets, then they can be used now.
mining and gold refining plant
photo: Aliyev citizen
photo of Aliyev citizen
In addition, specialists specially arrived here in the central district clinic: a neurapotologist, cardiologist, endocrinologist, ophthalmologist, nephrologist receive citizens in need of medical care.
the head of the housing department told the participants of the meeting what measures are being taken to improve the situation when issuing certificates on the absence of housing from the communal housing stock.
the plan also reflects an increase in transparency of competitive selection, the formation of a personnel reserve of the B corps (in the presence and absence of seniority).
The external floor of the pavilion is depicted in the form of wheat ears, which are considered the main crops of the country.
Further development of the institution of private bailiffs.
The second significance, given that the khan is primarily a military leader, is that you can be witty before the enemy, "says a museum employee.
this path was proposed by the leader of the nation.
The meeting was attended by about 40 enterprises operating in this area.
As part of an action organized by the Department of State Revenue in Astana in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, department employees assisted veterans of the Great Patriotic War and elderly people working in the rear, the department said.
As for industry sections, the majority of lending falls on trading, 69.1% of loans are allocated for this area, the volume of loans of the processing industry is 12.0%.
diplomatic relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Romania were established on July 15, 1992.
Recall that voting took place in the republic at polling stations 9 thousand 741.
members of the commission discussed organizational issues related to the work of the commission, procedures for determining fluency in the state language by a presidential candidate of the Republic of Kazakhstan, determined by the resolution of the Central Election Commission of August 31, 2015 "On the procedure for determining fluency in the state language by a presidential candidate of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
the number of orcations decreases from year to year, 4 pairs are protected in Almaty zoos.
During the conference, the work of the 2nd section will be organized.
Taking this opportunity, I send greetings to all Kazakhstanis, congratulate them on the holiday and call for useful work for the country, "the participant said.
And most importantly, despite the fact that the requests of Kazakhstanis to go to court are constantly gaining momentum, the courts of the republic ensure respect for the rule of law in the implementation of justice at a professional level.
the Australian method is used in poorly studied areas.
In honor of this important period, an unprecedented exhibition was opened in the museum of the first president, which simultaneously presented collections of several museum exhibitions dedicated to the heritage and history of traditional Kazakh society.
According to the Minister, the potential for further development of cooperation lies in the new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu, which is planned to be signed this year.
At the same time, the IOC promises to provide us with about $1 billion, "the president said.
training work was carried out both during the day and at night under the guidance of the sergeant of the brigade.
the expediency of the mechanism, which during phytosanitary control determines fictitious phytosanitary certificates, is determined.	also , the participants noted the necessity to improve the mechanism for the exchange of information with national information systems for plant quarantine , which involves the identification of indicators and forms of data exchange for issuance of phytosanitary certificates between the authorized bodies of the union .	0,27
As Timur Suleimenov noted, the commission also provides for the signing of documents of financial organizations of the eurozone countries.	minister for economy and financial policy timur suleimenov stressed that the commission welcomes the signing of the documents with a wide range of financial institutions of the eurasian economic union ( eeu ) .	0,27
According to the head of the region, in 2014 the gross regional product increased by 200 billion tenge and reached 2.3 trillion tenge, thus, economic growth in the region amounted to 6%.	he noted that the acreages were increased by 5 thousand hectares and reached 779 thousand hectares .	0,27
the document provides for the transfer of convicted citizens from one state to another to serve their sentence in the country of the convicted person.	the agreement between kazakhstan and hungary on the transfer of sentenced persons .	0,27
Total foreign investment increased from 7% to 12%, "M. Pshembayev said.
The project was launched in November 2014 and created 25 jobs.
on the day of appointment, a special white roof is attached to the elected khan.
R. Zhoshybayev thanked the Korean side for its support for joining the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
When the plant is started, the residual is reduced to 80%.
The meeting ended with a presentation by the director of the Kostanay branch of the Kazakhstan International Bureau for Human Rights and the Rule of Law on the topic: "Implementation of decisions of the international human rights body: the first experience of Kazakhstan and the method of other states."
According to the data of the first quarter of 2015, the share of productive employees of the total number of self-employed amounted to 76.5%, inefficient employees - 23.5%.
other veterans attended the meeting.
the exhibition presentation shows the history of the creation of a state that has taken a worthy place not only in Central Asia and the Eurasian region, but also in the world as a whole.
because all the difficulties arising from this crisis fall on the shoulders of the working population.
According to Chinese guests, this country does not produce a zone, although sweet products are in great demand among the population.
Delegation of the Naval Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan visited this plant to discuss issues of equipment production
all this suggests the need for early elections, which in the future should ensure the reliability of the people, take a stubborn step into the future, take part in solving the world crisis, in achieving their political goals, "he said.
During the event, the head of the department of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Kyzylorda region, Zhanna Skakova, noted the growing demand for skilled workers due to the rapid growth in the scale of the tasks of industrial and innovative development of the country, has modern knowledge, advanced technologies, large tasks and requirements for the training of skilled workers in educational institutions of technical and vocational education.
According to Kyzylorda region, according to the preliminary design, it is planned to reconstruct the cinema and plan it as a friendship house.
On amendments and additions to some laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on registration of legal entities and accounting registration of branches and representative offices, having entered into legal force on January 9, 2013 in accordance with the law, the registration body does not submit the charters of private business entities, when registering an LLC, a document is not required, confirming the location and certificate of his absence of tax indebtedness if the founder of the LLC is a legal entity.
the total amount of financing is 30.2 billion tenge.
all zones should be closely connected by rail, rail, air.
saken musaibekov in 1991 with a degree in mining engineering. In 1996 he graduated from the Kazakh Polytechnic Institute named after Lenin, Kazakh State Academy of Management with a degree in international economics.
Issues of Kazakh-parallel cooperation were discussed during the meeting.
the perfect end of the day spent in the Marine Brigade coincided with a real soldier's dinner.
issues related to quarantine products were also addressed.
it's a special day.
8 of them were introduced last year, while 455 jobs were created.
these measures are effective measures to prevent offences.
in his opinion, in such difficult times when a country was born, it was necessary to show ownership of the State and use goods produced at home.
The Governor's Office also noted that a road map of the Aksai Industrial Park has been developed in the region in order to consolidate a number of types of food products and services transported from outside.
dissenting opinion - the best television journalist
on the eve of the upcoming presidential elections, as well as the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 70th anniversary of Victory Day, bureau members were instructed.
our peoples have long known each other, because the great steppes occupy the space to southern Ukraine.
it is thanks to these people that we live in a peaceful, independent state.
By a decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR of April 25, 1945, M. Beulov was posthumously awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union for exemplary performance of command missions at the front of the struggle against the German invaders and the courage and heroism shown.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstanis should work to create a strong country.
lists of waiting lists are planned by akimats, we transfer the built houses to the local executive bodies, which are planning liquidation, "the chairman of the board said.
Recruitment to the public service should begin at lower levels.
In 2014, under the Yrys program, 2 commodity and dairy farms were created, and this year, Ice LLP plans to additionally receive 1,600 head of cattle in order to expand its own production.
In turn, the head of the delegation noted that he first arrived in the capital and was delighted that the city is flourishing at the modern level.
Gas networks of medium pressure on the streets of Yessimbekov in the aul villages of the aul, Kazakh dikhan of Merken district were also carried out, the Governor's office of the region reported.
Transport and Logistics Center of Kazglavproduct LLP
hardened kaumetova
consumers in most cases cannot protect their rights when they are offered a helping hand by specialists in the consumer protection department.
the model of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - the creation of unity and interethnic harmony. "
he invites the consumer to see a doctor at the exact time, and information can call the phone or come to an email address.
The report also notes that as part of the monitoring of the election campaign, representatives of the mission held meetings with the heads of election headquarters of citizens - candidates for the presidency of these regions.
The meeting was attended by representatives of various ethnocultural associations of the capital.
As you know, the implementation of the State Infrastructure Development Program for 2015-2019, which begins with the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol is the way to the future," is unfolding in all regions of the country.
in the management of culture, it is planned to create a bank of innovative ideas.
those who doubted it say that this phenomenon is based on the achievements of the Soviet Union.
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anate
baurzhan mukanov
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
for example, Romania began to engage in quotas for ethnic groups, "the deputy explained.
participated in battles near Krasnodar, Novorossiysk, was wounded.
Director General of the magate y.amano noted that Kazakhstan has long been a partner of the organization in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear technologies and the fight against the threat of nuclear proliferation.
As noted in the ministry, the main issue discussed at the expert platform was the formation of a common cultural and educational space as the basis for real integration in the Eurasian space
The commission for legalization of property, approved by the decision of the akim of Aktobe, continues its work.
It will be difficult for you if you cannot establish friendly relations around you, "the president said.
A business school operates in the center for servicing entrepreneurs.
the passenger will receive a 35 percent discount on the early purchase of the ticket.
botagose aitzhanova
botagose aitzhanova
There are 154 agricultural processing enterprises in Sko.
that is, in the future, the most recent material base of the medical sector and leading specialists of the region will be consolidated.
Also, the problem of global petty matter is the formation of commodity prices and distortion of investment requirements.
it pleases us.
this is an unforgettable event.
Authors of works recognized as the best are awarded monetary prizes, and their works are published in republican publications.
therefore, the parties will exchange experience and pay special attention to the preparation of high-quality bills in this direction.
including a bill initiated by deputies on minimum social standards and guarantees.
So, the country now really needs cohesion and unity, peace.
We, representatives of ethnocultural associations of Almaty region, understand that 5 institutional reforms proposed by the President of Kazakhstan are relevant for timely implementation, "said the Deputy Chairman.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, this category includes a member and skin of a person, blood and its composition, a sample of biological material, minural raw materials, wild animals and some wild plants and wild medicinal herbs.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan expressed gratitude to the leadership of the university, which organized the conference, which made it possible to get acquainted with preventive measures, strategic documents of Kazakhstan in the framework of the global economic crisis.
spring field work is carried out according to plan, "said A. Mamytbekov.
the year of the assembly is a year that symbolizes the unity of our people, which united common history and destiny in eternity. "
The management of the plant intends to expand the offered types of services in the future.
having released us urgently, we all voluntarily went to the front.
In 2014, the local executive body allocated 59 million tenge to the water rescue service.
Chikhanchin paid special attention to the issues of ensuring the economic security of the two states and emphasized the importance of further improving the regulatory framework in this area.
this is 28,567 children, "the report said.
in accordance with the plan, inspectors are trained in anti-corruption laws and the requirements of regulatory legal acts.
Head of the Moscow Drama Theater a.zhigarkhanyanov.
During the event, a bird with an eagle, the rites of our ancestors, and noble art in our blood were planted on our hands.
veteran of World War II, reserve colonel Gennady Munailov thanked the head of state for his large-scale initiative and concern for veterans.
I decided to allocate an additional $3 billion annually from the National Fund for the period from 2015 to 2017.
To date, an individual entrepreneur has commissioned a cinema for the benefit of the country, at his own expense the development of design estimates has been financed.
in the third area "Employment through training and resettlement within the framework of the needs of the employer," 82 people were sent for vocational training, 116 people took part in youth internships.
According to him, the 200th anniversary of the great poet and artist Shevchenko was celebrated in 2014 around the world.
Reducing the participation of the prosecutor in civil courts to facilitate judicial procedures and expedite trials.
this decision was made at a meeting of the construction committee, the presidium of the construction and housing consolidation committee.
Salt concerts and performances of the aubakir performer are held in the largest concert halls of Kazakhstan, Turkey, France, Great Britain, Germany, Japan, Russia, Poland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Israel, Greece, Hungary.
the provision of housing directly, without intermediaries and a minimum percentage loan will reduce the cost of its purchase cost.
Today in 17 countries there are more than 70 organizations of Kazakh students.
in particular, anti-inflammatory, painkillers and heating drugs, some types of antibiotics, as well as syringes and gauze.
The head of state expressed special gratitude to the people of the country, noting among the dynamically developing regions the Kyzylorda region.
The Food Contract Corporation also began accepting applications for the forward purchase of grain by financing spring field work to support agricultural producers.
These projects are aimed at training the entrepreneurial potential of Kazakhstani entrepreneurs through lectures of domestic and foreign trainers on the basis of one of the leading universities of the country "Nazarbayev University," the Governor's office of the region reported.
Recall that the Kazakh contingent of the collective rapid response forces was quickly assembled on alert and sent to the Tajik-Afghan border.
In total, 39 youth organizations have been created in the region, including 17 districts.
The war veteran was congratulated by the mayor of the Tselinograd region of the Malgazhar Tatars, wishing longevity and good health.
memoranda worth 19 billion tenge were signed with 4 single-industry towns of the region.
Specific proposals will be developed following the results of the round table.
everyone should be able to appreciate the sights of their city and promote it for others.
we conditionally say that there are 20 good deeds, but in fact there are a lot of good deeds.
Recall that the republic is voting at 9741 polling stations.
Recall that the republic is voting at 9741 polling stations.
in this direction, we must all be ruthless.
The main thing is that you receive a high-quality education and contribute so that our country is rich, architectural, "the Governor of the region said.
therefore, I sincerely congratulate you, through you, all the women of Kazakhstan on the holiday of spring, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to him, of these, 6,734 settlements are included in the centralized water supply of 3387 settlements, in 3347 regions there is no water supply system.
a positive difference in migration, mainly due to internal migration (+ 16679 people).
parents were pleased and grateful for this action.
the celebration is timed to coincide with the 5th anniversary of the Balakay kindergarten and friendship hall.
I can say that the connection between youth and democracy was and will be the main indicator.
During the first five-year period, 5 large cement plants were launched.
In order to clarify the priority directions of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" under the Mayor's Office of the city
One house with an area of ​ ​ 30 square meters will pay more than 30 thousand tenge per month, "said the chairman of the board of Real Estate Fund Samruk-kazyna b. palymbetov.
thirdly, the work of milk processing enterprises will be strengthened for the complete circulation of the milk taken.
Recall that the holy Taikazan will be sent from Almaty region to South Kazakhstan region on March 14 of this year.
In turn, the egor stepanovich thanked the leadership of the department for organizing festive events.
Water supply systems in spring and lake villages were also reconstructed.
G. Abdykalikova noted the need to create conditions for the development of the role of women in modern society.
The Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan imangali Tasmagambetov handed the flag of the naval forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Captain-Lieutenant Rustem Zhunusov.
the competition received about 130 paintings from all schools in the city.
according to the forecast, if this is carried out, the salaries of doctors will increase threefold.
It is worth noting that the grouping of information about the owners of the Order of Glory is implemented at the initiative of the party.
in addition, in order to modernize the infrastructure of suburban territories with. The length to toraigyrov street is 4.8 km. It is planned to reconstruct Suleimenov Street (from Chymbay Street to Aitbaev Street) into streets with a length of 1.5 km.
we thought in detail about what to do if the voter appears at the polling station and does not find himself on the voter lists.
b.sagintayev instructed the Governor of Karaganda region and the heads of regional services to continue the work on monitoring the water level in water funds, timely provision of information on the resettlement of the population, restoration of roads and road structures, ensuring transport communication between settlements and polling stations, organize the work of the commission to identify and compensate victims of floods, - said A. Sovetov.
Mandatory transfer of office apartments to displaced public servants during the performance of their duties without the right to privatize.
The emir, highly appreciating the results of his visit to the capital in January 2014, noted that the President of Kazakhstan will again meet with Nursultan Nazarbayev during the planned visit of the head of state to the country.
Deputy Interior Minister Vladimir Bozhko will take part in the press conference.
baurzhan mukanov
helping each other, we reached this day.
In general, the number of employees increased in the region, the number of self-employed decreased.
all before the victory holiday receive their guarantee payments, "the regional department of internal policy said.
Over more than twenty years of work in the center, a lot of work has been done.
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
camila amirova
camila amirova
1,492 tons of cheaper diesel fuel were allocated for spring field work in the region.
it's for sale, too.
the veteran recalls the state of wartime without consultation.
aliyev photographer
Currently, four vessels are ready for the upcoming sea biathlon.
in the future, after the completion of the reconstruction, lifting devices (telfer) will be produced here.
Including 2828 years of social and medical care, 474 psychological, 311 legal consultations, 484 years of employment in permanent jobs.
A 4-person creative group consisting of a journalist and television operators will travel along the Indian route Saudi Arabia - Oman - Comorian Islands - Seychelles - Madagascar - Mauritius - Maldives - Sri Lanka.
According to the document, the term of the agreement between the governments of Kazakhstan and Russia on trade and economic cooperation in the field of oil and petroleum products supplies to the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 9, 2010 was extended until January 1, 2019, If neither party has notified the other of its intention to terminate this agreement at least 6 months prior to the expiry of the original term of this agreement, after this period, it will be automatically extended for 5 years, the Senate said.
Employees of TJ bodies carry out decent work, I want to thank them all.
During the meeting, the Bimahambets discussed with young people the problems of the modern institution of the family.
As noted in the report, for these works he was repeatedly awarded medal orders.
The competition was attended by more than 200 paintings of pupils of orphanages in all regions of Kazakhstan.
obtaining a certificate of a specialist who has and does not have a qualification category.
The open all-around championship of Kazakhstan was held in Karaganda region.
This year, to get high-quality products, you need to connect to work early.
secondly, we send social groups created from unemployed youth to these jobs.
In general, during the conversation, young people showed great interest in the existing life of the militants.
Recall that in the capital, chaired by party leader N. Nazarbayev, the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party is being held.
Following the meeting, Nurmukhambet Abdibekov instructed the heads of departments and structural divisions together with the Kazakhstan Space Visit to consider financial needs and use the possibilities of applying space technologies in the interests of the Karaganda region for 2015.
The dialogue platform was attended by Shakarim Bukhtugutov, Head of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of East Kazakhstan Region, representatives of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan Region and the Development Committee, heads of enterprises and representatives of gardens.
In addition, professional coaches-consultants will conduct special trainings in which they will pay special attention to ethics of behavior, culture of speech, standards of service, issues of solving acute situations.
At the end of the meeting, chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan sagintayev, memoranda were signed between the akimat of South Kazakhstan region and the akimat of South Kazakhstan region on the development of local content "kazatomprom," "kazakhtelecom," "kazmunaigaz," "samruk energo."
new format enterprises have been opened, about 600 new jobs have been created.
Mayor of the city urged young leaders to move on, not limited to the achieved result.
ancient kokpars and baigas of the people still remain an integral part of the traditional culture of the Kazakh people.
information about soldiers of this category has not been summarized before.
Preschool institutions with 50 seats and a summer health camp with 86 seats have also been opened.
the project provides for a complete reconstruction of the zoo according to the method of geographical zoning.
theatrical performances featuring characters such as leather and clean children attracted the attention of viewers, as well as participants in national games, such as skirmishes and brawls.
Of the funds of the National Fund for 2016, 71 billion tenge will be allocated this year for the repair of housing and communal services and roads, "the minister said.
It is worth noting that the goal of creating business support centers is to form infrastructure at the regional and regional levels, which provides full assistance to start-up entrepreneurs and current businessmen.
in the meeting, Dosanov noted the importance of combining efforts with other structures in the fight against corruption.
at the end of the internship, the cadets pass a set-off allowing independent work with personnel.
scientists noted the need for a historical study in connection with the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
I am confident that these industrial enterprises will contribute to the economic development of the region.
The Mayor of the city presented valuable and memorable gifts to the winners who won two-time owners of akhmetzhan and vefa, to the players of Almaty futsal "kairat."
According to the organizers, the event, which will be held on the eve of the EXPO-2017 exhibition in Astana, will allow to demonstrate the scientific and intellectual potential of new ideas and projects, technologies in the region.
this document contains the rules of the working group and the procedure for organizing the information exchange of documents.	this document approved the regulation on the working group and the order of organization of information exchange by documents in the sphere of technical regulation and metrology .	0,31
The head of the parliamentary delegation of Mongolia, highly appreciating the achievements of Kazakhstan, a.tleikhan noted the great economic achievements of Kazakhstan and interest in the domestic political situation and stability of the country.	vice-speaker invited the mongolian companies to participate actively in the preparation and holding the international exhibition  expo-2017 " on the theme " energy of the future " in astana .
The concert program in the state language with the participation of ethnocultural centers of Astana not only aroused interest among the audience and fair people.
During the war years, many wounded, thanks to women such as pinelope panathaevna kafatri, were able to improve their health.
The plan for retraining of specialists and advanced training of employees is 240% per year.
At the same time, he noted that if earlier teenagers committed secondary crimes without fulfilling the requirements of the first sentence, then today the situation is significantly improving.
In addition, through a video conference, participants of the forum were sent transfers to young people studying in China and the UK.
To date, the heads of educational institutions have signed several memoranda with leading enterprises on conducting practice with the further employment of students.
In turn, Christian Mish noted that since it is often found within the framework of common goals, he feels our country as a native pile, Kazakhstan is dynamically developing in many conditions.
Currently, in many developed countries, the situation with public debt has worsened.
this year - the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh khanate, the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 20th anniversary of the kha and constitution, as well as the 170th anniversary of the great abai.	this year is marked by the anniversaries in the history of kazakhstan .	0,31
with higher legal education, Vladimir Phophos served in the USSR Navy.	speaking about the candidacy of vladimir foos , rakhmet mukhashev reported that more than 10 years he worked on the drifter ridder mine of leninogorsk polymetallic plant in east kazakhstan region .	0,31
For teachers of this educational institution, it was a special day, since this year the first graduates will be launched from the school walls.	according to the results of exams students have shown excellent knowledge .	0,31
in addition, provision is made for the creation of special jobs for the employment of persons with disabilities, taking into account their individual opportunities, the establishment of a quota of jobs for persons with disabilities in the amount of 2 to 4 percent of the average number of employees of enterprises, subsidizing the costs of employers creating special jobs for the employment of persons with disabilities.	in addition , under the development of educational infrastructure it 's planned to provide the expansion of student places , modernize and expand the number of seats in the dorms at universities and colleges of the region defined by the government .	0,31
Following the results of the competition, a team was formed that will take part in the republican contest "Yasaitanu Akmola."
and veterans who could not come for the medal were awarded medals no less solemnly than in their homes.
Industrial products amounted to 649.2 billion tenge, labor productivity in manufacturing industry amounted to 76.3 thousand dollars per person, the Governor's office reported.
therefore, the commander-in-chief of the ground forces of Kazakhstan and the commander-in-chief of the airmobile forces pay great attention to the training of snipers.
an intelligent circuit is installed on cars, which is equipped with special sensors, and the car is equipped with a system for electronic assessment of transport management skills.
all these projects are planned to be commissioned this year.
the second unique product - a bird of prey - an eagle or a neck - on the depicted plate.
In the future, the entrepreneur plans to grow a Kazakh snow-white cow, sheep and horses.
Today, on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, we are opening a monument to our fellow countryman.	the solemn event ended by the ceremony of laying flowers to the monument .	0,32
skype "with the involvement of qualified psychologists.
is the "gold standard" for health facilities seeking to improve the quality of joint commission international (jci) services.
To assess the situation related to the flood in the republic, data obtained by Kazakhstani earth remote sensing satellites are used. to assess the flood situation ces uses remote sensing satellites .
all of them, despite their youth, during the Cold War worked on supplying the Soviet army.
Currently, work is ongoing at the meeting on bills amending this law, as well as on state audit and financial control.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is an effective incentive for our progress, establishing the present moment for the whole people, "the address says.
but reducing the state budget is in no way related to social spending.	that is why it will reflect our country as well .	0,32
The main goal of the project is close interaction with the agricultural machinery market of Kazakhstan.	it 's planned to implement new integrated solutions , promote new , modern technologies of forage , pack in the polymeric materials , application of mineral and organic fertilizers .	0,32
In addition, in February, memoranda on mutual cooperation on the elimination of cases of dismissal of employees began to be concluded between the akims of the regions and employers throughout the country.	besides , the deputy prime minister noted that one of the main directions of development of healthcare would be ensuring financial stability of the sector for the nearest future .	0,32
student construction and green country "was allocated 119.4 million tenge, from the number of students of educational institutions, pupils of the village, the home of unemployed youth and youth - 2585 young people, including 588 unemployed.
Achieving such growth is possible due to an increase in oil production, "he said.
There are cases in which the Customs officer has equal responsibility for Customs payments and Customs taxes.	the procedure of customs transit is changed in order to reduce the time of customs formalities .	0,32
Recall that in the country voting takes place at 9 thousand 741 polling stations.	there are 9,741 polling stations .	0,32
the educational institution has its own workshop.	it should be noted , the college operates according to the dual system of education .	0,32
this is a positive indicator.	this is a good indicator , taking into account the difficult situation in the global economy .	0,32
More than 10 West Kazakhstan veterans received medals of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.	in addition , more than ten thousand western kazakhstan veterans will receive commemorative medals for the 70th anniversary of the victory .	0,32
Within the framework of the "Year of Education," all events in our city are the main task - to improve the quality of students, "said A. Yessimov.
This technology will be used for the first time in the South Kazakhstan region in the field of fisheries.
a competition for the best singing was organized, and works by masters of wooden architecture were also presented.
The results of the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan continued with a festive concert.
the results of the certification of officers will be announced at the end of each microdistrict, an analysis of the certification will be carried out.
the second task was the main part of the military exercises.
1.7% growth compared to the same period in 2014.
All cities, regional centers and settlements should take part in the festive events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	deputy prime minister of kazakhstan berdibek saparbaev instructed to involve national companies to fund the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate speaking at the meeting .	0,32
operational working groups determine citizens who want to take part in the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" and the project "Rise."
In turn, the novel noted the high level of preparation of Almaty Campus residents for the championship and wished athletes success, high performance and victories.
in 11 villages of the district inspections are carried out.
this project was implemented within the framework of the industrialization map within the framework of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
elections are a popular event, on the one hand, it's a big responsibility, "the deputy said.
to date, the socio-economic level of Almaty region is high.
measures to support Kazakhstani farms and agricultural organizations are aimed at supporting agricultural producers who, for various reasons, cannot pay off debts on their loans.
By a joint decision of the judges, the winners of the festival were the Kazakh folk choir "Stanichniki," headed by Natalya Ivanova in the staff of the branch of the Republican Slavic movement "lad," a sharipov sangina, represented by the Uzbek ethnocultural center "duslyk."
On December 22, 2014, following a visit to Kiev, the President of the country set the task of intensifying trade and economic cooperation with the Ukrainian side.
Attracting strategic investors to energy conservation through recognized international energy service agreements.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 1991 04, including 190,636 units of small enterprises (less than 100 people).
special master classes were organized for young Almaty residents.
The adoption of the bill will allow domestic carriers to carry out unhindered transit transportation to Europe through the territory of the Republic of Belarus.
basic training programs have also been revised taking into account the best international practices - from the first year, specialized training is provided with the mandatory definition of a particular course of the disease in children.
The developed documents are a continuation of the standardization activities envisaged by the concept of the development of the electronic health sector of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020 and the "On Approval of Technical Documentation on Electronic Health Issues" of the Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 10, 2014 No. 75.
organization of production of spare parts of assembly elements of the lower side of the drill string and pdc mechanisms, project cost - 270 million tenge, LLP "Zhigermunaiservis" reached capacity with creation of 20 new jobs.
The action was supported by 2 thousand 300 trading facilities and organized by Kazakhstan product departments.
where the voter is registered and the voter votes at the place of his/her approval.
104 rooms of a new model worth 400 million tenge, textbooks worth 500 million tenge were purchased, "the report said.
In March of this year in Astana, Almaty, Kokshetau, Semey, Kostanay the first 1,357 apartments with an area of 76.5 thousand square meters will be commissioned.
After that, representatives of the delegation intend to meet with members of youth organizations engaged in military-patriotic work.
It is worth noting that this is the first document jointly created by the business community of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus.
According to the basic requirements of the electoral legislation, it is necessary to create conditions for all citizens, candidates for the presidency of Kazakhstan from the media.	however turgankulov stressed that the electoral law allows both public and non-state media to participate in the election campaign .	0,32
this program will allow to improve the quality of public services as soon as possible, provide measures to satisfy citizens, and improve the efficiency of the public service.	the program is designed to assist public servants wishing to implement these best practices in their organizations .	0,32
the raw materials required for the glass plant are supposed to be supplied from the serum deposit located in the Kyzylorda region.	the plant will be built in the industrial area in the district  titov . "
Last year, crops in the region amounted to 580.4 thousand hectares, which is 37.6 thousand hectares more than in 2013, "the report said.
to do this, entrepreneurs needed to receive from the tax authorities a certificate on the absence of debt confirming their debt.
Financing primary health care under social health insurance in order to improve the availability and quality of services through competition - ensures the transition of medical organizations to the principles of corporate governance through competition.
in this case, a new type of notarial actions is introduced - an executive record.
The project starts on May 16 in Moscow and will end on November 25 in the capital of Moldova.
our union is formed as a major idea with its own potential, which brings great benefits in the case of cooperation.
According to the Ministry of Finance, during the video seminar, taxpayers and participants in the session will have the opportunity to communicate in real time with the developers of the committee's draft laws and professional specialists.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan k.masimov, from Russia - d.medvedev, from Kyrgyzstan - d.otorbayev, from Tajikistan - k.rasulzade, First Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Rustam azimov and Prime Minister of China take part in the council meeting.
Residential construction bank, in turn, will create a pool of home buyers and implement square meters built at the expense of housing construction savings of citizens.
balausa is one of these projects, and we believe that this will increase the interest of the public in children's literature, will make a significant contribution to the development of national culture, the education of future generations and the further development of the Kazakh language.
The Secretary of State noted the significant contribution of the paired population fund to the sustainable development and improvement of the well-being of the population of Kazakhstan, the report said.
In his speech, he noted that at many polling stations they watched a large queue, many citizens wanted to pay off their civil debt.
of these, 20 billion tenge - for the agro-industrial complex, 10 billion tenge - for the construction of infrastructure under the program "Business roadmap -2020," 5 billion tenge - for the support of the domestic market by improving technical regulation and the laboratory base, 6 billion tenge - for geological control and 30 billion tenge - for the development of housing construction.
In general, the main purpose of the memorandum is to fulfill the instructions of the head of state to eradicate corruption.
Adaulbaev noted that the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan adheres to the principle of reciprocity in solving issues of countering crime, providing international legal assistance in criminal cases and extraditing criminals, active cooperation is being conducted with American authorized bodies.
The most important thing is that any citizen who wants to open his business here, start his business, can come to the center, get advice and learn about the benefits offered by the state in relation to entrepreneurs.
As noted, the event was organized by the Governor's Office of Kokshetau city youth resource center of the Office for Youth Policy of Akmola region.
The implementation of the first stage began in 2013.
96-year-old veteran of the Great Patriotic War at a reception at the akim of the district appealed to the head of the district with a complaint about the lack of a stroller for movement.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that despite the influence of external factors on the country's economy, the improvement of the education sector will continue.
final day of materials acceptance for the tender - June 12 of the current year (date of receipt).
The length of the gas pipeline is 6.5 thousand km.
the construction of intracity gas distribution networks of the city of Turkestan was carried out by the "kaztransgaz zone."
If the voter's name is not on the list or if inaccuracies in his data are assumed, the voter may request his inclusion in the list or make the necessary corrections on the basis of the relevant documents.
Thanks to the signed bilateral memoranda between the representatives of the health departments of the two countries, Kazakhstanis are regularly treated in Korean clinics, and are also engaged in the training of Kazakhstani specialists.
therefore, we need to build a complex for the production of such valuable petrochemical products as polypropylene, polyethylene.
The operation of two autonomous courts allows the decision to be made correctly.
At the same time, the head of the public association noted that representatives of the organization headed by him clearly feel Kazakhstan's readiness for any difficulties and tests.
By 2020, it is planned to increase the number of tourists by 355.5 thousand people due to attracting investments.
In order to further promote mutual interests in this area, p. Brahmpundit was presented with a letter on behalf of the Speaker of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev calling for participation in the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year.
in the sacred area, crop production and animal husbandry and farming flourish.
It is worth noting that as part of the Beijing visit, scientists of the International Turkic Academy discovered valuable documents in the first historical museum of China that had not previously been published in relation to the Kazakh Khanate.
sometimes the appellate court considers the case on the basis of judicial requirements of the 1st level.
the historical drama "The Dream of Abylai Khan" underwent a number of improvements and was again presented to the viewer.
an invoice when submitting a business trip report along with an electronic ticket to the seat of the boarding pass, "the statement said.
Welcome to the region of the sacred kulana, lying along the great silk road, with deep roots, deep roots, lives and subsoil! - said the akim of the district, speaking at the rally. public counseling office was working in the mayor 's office of lugovaya station .
next, the relay of "20 good deeds" synchronous-action of the year of the assembly was transferred to the aksu district and, in addition, started this year.
As a result of the meeting, a number of documents were adopted regarding a pilot project on financing for amending the borders of EU and EU countries.
the input side consists of three levels used for technical parts and maintenance, the second part consists of a cinema hall.
the theme of friendship of peoples and inter-ethnic harmony is the basis for the prosperity of our country.
Thanks to the work in this direction, the Kazakh content of goods in the region increased from 34 to 89% compared to last year.
residents of settlements located on the way to the baton of victory were happy to meet the participants.
the organizers of the event are the Department of Internal Policy of the Region and the Department of History of Kmu.
next year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of a great victory.	anna sala born june 12 , 1923 .	0,33
participants of the exhibition showed great interest in the Kazakhstan pavilion.	the head of the kazakh delegation informed the interlocutors on key provision of the  nurly zhol " address and preparation for expo 2017 exhibition .
the total area of ​ ​ the production facility is 7.5 hectares.
comprehensive propaganda and familiarization of the younger generation with his works, instilling through his works respect for the historical heritage, culture of the Kazakh people and the country.
At the same time, the rights and obligations of water users in the field of water supply and drainage were clarified, as well as the rights and obligations of water supply and drainage organizations were defined
the target audience for tolerance internships is deputies and teachers of secondary school principals for educational work.
This year, favorable weather conditions allowed representatives of the economy to start a sowing campaign a month earlier.
106 million tenge was spent on the overhaul of the cultural facility.
now it is being introduced in the global community.
According to representatives of the Foreign Ministry, the main feature of this event was the legal aspects of doing business in Kazakhstan.
To effectively monitor the certification process.
the introduction of a new conditional funded component from 2018 due to the transfer of a 5% contribution to the employee's income to a conditional pension account opened in a single funded pension fund; When the employee reaches retirement age and participates in the system for at least 5 years, the amount of the pension from the conditional funded component is determined depending on the pension right prevailing in the conditional pension account and the estimated life expectancy.
The status of wearing the ribbon of this complex was assigned to the head of the tourism department of the region and the founder of this recreation complex.
According to him, meetings with representatives of a single chemistry and prosecutor's office, which are held on an ongoing basis, contribute to the disclosure of systemic and individual problems related to the rights and legitimate interests of entrepreneurs.
Quality flour emanating from this limited liability partnership is sent to the southern regions of the country.
At the plenary session, the people's representatives also specified the terms for preparing an opinion on bills relating to the ratification of treaties with Bulgaria and Romania on the extradition of persons, as well as an agreement on the extradition of convicted persons with Romania.
The solemn event ended with a festive concert of the cultural center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the song and dance ensemble of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, akim held a meeting on city improvement.
but the general situation of our relations is this - there is a process of changing enterprises and goods, creating joint ventures.
At the end of the action, residents thanked the employees of the Department of Justice of the East Kazakhstan region and expressed their wishes for the further continuation of such actions.
This year, the winners of the Olympiads who graduated from school were awarded a special prize of the Kazakh university.
It is worth noting that today the secondary processing of double-glazed windows is one of the most important issues.
In addition, according to him, primary entrepreneurs will study for free.
As noted in the report, work to reduce prices will be carried out in 2 stages.
It is also planned that Paralympic athletes and dancers will perform, who, being with disabilities, could not qualify.
great attention is paid to the popularization of ski sports among the younger generation.
Kazpost JSC, using photos of the winners of the competition, released a package of four brands "children draw."
The report says the launch of a complex in which veal can perform all processes covering the period from slaughter to packaging.
After the concert, servicemen, students and schoolchildren, together with veterans of the Second World War, laid flowers at the eternal fire in the city Victory Park, which is a symbol of victory, a memory of the glorious feat of Kazakhstanis.
The following risks are now emerging and evolving at the global level and pose great risks to future development. now on a global scale there are challenges formed .
The Microsoft Teacher Training Initiative is aimed at educating teachers of pedagogical universities to use technology effectively in the learning process.
The seminar was attended by employees of employment bodies, deputy chairman of the trade union center in Aktobe region, legal specialists.
Vivid evidence that today we hand over the keys to apartments to 195 young families.
Today, a draft online petition addressed to world leaders was signed by about 100,000 people from more than 100 countries.
Of course, over the years, the people of Kazakhstan have experienced very difficult times, and thanks to the constructive policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the country was able to overcome difficulties. the kazakh people since ancient times highly valued peace and harmony .
each district house of culture and a centralized library system have the opportunity to share the creative laboratory created by him.
in addition, Kazakhstani military doctors were regularly involved in the US Delta base, where they provided medical care to more than 5,000 local residents and coalition members - mainly women and children affected by terrorist attacks.
In this building, built in accordance with modern requirements, all conditions for raising children have been created.
The unique structure, uniting more than 100 ethnic groups of the country, retained stability and played an important role for the progressive development of the republic.
On a working visit to Zharma district akim of the region got acquainted with the dairy reception point of the farm "Imadilov."
another 35 projects with an investment volume of 84.526 billion tenge in 2015-2019. Regional Business Support Map.
The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan determined that the candidate for the Presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan is not fluent in the state language on the basis of the conclusion of the linguistic commission on determining fluency in the state language of March 10, 2015 No. 10.
sso technology provides more convenient use of electronic services and frees consumers from the need to repeatedly enter their account data, "said the chairman of the board" uat "p.s. engsebayev.
To this end, memorandums of understanding and cooperation were signed between the Almaty regional branch of the party, the prosecutor's office of the Almaty region, the department of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in the Almaty region, the financial control inspectorate, the audit commission and the public service center, the party's branch reported.
According to the department, for the current period the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region has established a place of erection of a monument to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Recently, a delegation of the Dubai customs authority arrived in Kazakhstan, which, together with its Kazakh colleagues, plans to establish an it-platform for processing customs transit cargo.
The meeting was attended by representatives of central authorities, Governor's Office of Karaganda region and Co-oration Kazakhmys LLP.
During the events, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan discussed draft laws "on combating corruption," "on access to information," "on public control," developed by deputies - members of the Nurotan party.
certification - the compliance of officers with the position and promotion to the highest military posts, the possibility of inclusion in the list of candidates for admission to the National University of Defense or making a decision on enrollment in the reserve for study at higher academic courses during training.
As part of the company's health-improving work, enforcement proceedings were initiated in June 2014 with the aim of forcibly collecting debt.
it not only ensures food security, but also contributes to the employment of many people.
To date, 3 thousand 702 doctors and 5 thousand 542 middle-level medical workers work in medical institutions.
the draft law openly reflects the basic concepts, defines the principles, goals and objectives of peacekeeping activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan had recently taken the initiative to hold early elections.
the nodes of nine roads that intersect in the capital should become a biography that spreads the spirit of creation of the capital, "the head of state said in a message.
You know very well that the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, who visited the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, deeply recognized our country. this forum was devoted to the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
In the event of an emergency or a determination of its existence as required by the instrument, one State shall send a letter to another State requesting assistance in writing.
Thank you very much! "-he said.
annual interest rates on loans allocated for replenishment of working capital, acquisition of fixed assets, construction works and leasing for the purchase of technological equipment and agricultural equipment are reduced by 7% in case of obtaining a loan in tenge and by 5% in case of obtaining a loan in foreign currency.
the main point of this agreement is the support of domestic producers.
According to deputies, these are mainly able-bodied people under the age of 40-45 years.
in the Kordai region, during the action "I love life," 60 veterans were assisted.
Majilismen in the second reading discussed the bill regarding amendments on water supply and sanitation.
Kazatomprom will participate in measures aimed at the socio-economic stability of the white region, including the protection of labor rights of employees of subsidiaries, the creation of new jobs with the preservation of new ones.
According to the head of the regional department for the development of languages, every year the number of educational institutions with the state language of instruction increases.
As noted in the report, in agriculture there are significant successes in nutrition.
Congratulating Almaty residents on Victory Day, the Mayor of the city noted that May 9 is a day of remembrance for the Kazakh people.
they will be held from March 1 to March 30, 2015 in accordance with the training plan for the management bodies, formations and units of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the veteran gladly accepted the congratulations of the head of state before the holiday.
According to the regional department of internal policy, the "victory ribbon" is a ribbon of blue sky 70 meters long, 1.5 meters wide, decorated with national ornaments, with a golden yellow tint in the center.
As part of a national action in support of veterans of the Great Patriotic War, the head of the region congratulated them on behalf of the head of state.
separate wooden houses located here have their own kitchen and showers, a bath with all the conditions.
they had the opportunity to try the Kazakh national dish, enjoy traditional dances, listen to beautiful melodies performed on the national instrument, as well as see the progress of making homemade yurt and silver products.
veteran recalls his wartime with age, recalling his comrades and victory day.
Kazakhstan has made significant progress in preventing mother-to-child HIV infection.
A. Bizhanov noted that the participation of the Chinese delegation of religious leaders in the congress demonstrates the good efforts and desire of traditional Chinese denominations to actively promote intercultural and interreligious dialogue at the global level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Thus, the purpose of the bill is to form a legal basis, regulate the participation of the national contingent of the Republic of Kazakhstan in operations aimed at maintaining the union and consent, taking into account the international obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Specialists of the complex familiarized schoolchildren with the work on satellite control of the kazsat series.
wang zoan thanked the leadership of Kazakhstan for the invitation to the congress.
fish processing plant with a total value of 600.0 million tenge, with a capacity of 1200 tons of fish products per year.
Such events are held in the area twice a month.
In total, 178 thousand people took part in planting and harvesting trees in the 8th district of Almaty.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, during the meeting a set of issues was discussed regarding the improvement of the country's indicators on several indicators of the db rating, including "registration of property," "insolvency permit," "taxation," "obtaining a building permit," etc.
If there were such advice, citizens themselves could communicate with police officers and laugh at them.
the city hall was represented by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, during the confrontation with geopolitical and economic challenges.
According to the head of state, the transport networks defined in the message "Nұrly zhol" are a component of the economy, the relationship of regions with the center, regions with each other.
It is also necessary to restore the airfield, clear the cladding of the airport, update the fleet of special ground transportation, "said the chairman of the civil aviation committee.
On the same day, a youth center was opened in the village of Arshaly, which underwent major repairs.
Special consulting work is carried out on 17 facilities, measures are being taken to review and replenish documents.
The cost of the grant is $21,763,000.
also planned to speak to the faculty of the diplomatic academy of the Russian Federation and students.
communicable diseases now occupy one of the main places in the structure of total human morbidity.
relay participants carry a capsule with the holy place of their area, memorable books.
the Montreal Convention increases the protection of passengers on international air travel and places the interests of passengers above those of carriers.
veterans, youth, representatives of the Nұr Otan party took part in the flag presentation ceremony.
K. Jonker, in turn, thanked for the invitation of the ecu/diakb mission and the practical impact on its work in Kazakhstan.
Also, this company is one of the largest in the CIS.
the judge is not able to stop recording video or edit audio recording materials.
As noted in the National Chamber, five applications of farmers were submitted for subsidies to the city akimat.
summing up the results of the conference call, k.mami gave a number of instructions to the judicial corps on the implementation of systemic measures to improve the quality of judicial protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens.
due to the fact that in the spring many villages cannot reach the district centers due to the transfer of rivers by lakes.
The development of the law takes into account the previous experience of the country abroad and the norms of the model law of the CIS member states "on participation in peacekeeping operations," said the Deputy Minister of Defense.
The regional scientific conference was attended by the akim of the city of aibek karim families, the chairman of the specialized administrative court of the city of Semey of the East Kazakhstan region mukashov kenzhesh mukash.
According to him, local executive bodies are engaged in subsidizing agricultural producers according to the requirements of the current legislation.
In addition to fairs, we will hold other events.	akhmetzhan yessimov noted the importance of regional fairs and announced prospects of mutually beneficial cooperation .	0,35
the victims were taken out of the hatch and provided first aid.	yerzhan helped the victims to escape .	0,35
their performances were warmly welcomed by residents of a neighboring country.	literary and vocal and dance numbers kazakh artists were warmly welcomed by the audience and got them rave reviews .	0,35
I would advise readers to read this book.
It is noted that the idea of ​ ​ creating a weather station was conceived and experimented for five years.
N.Nazarbayev stressed that 5 institutional reforms should be aimed at creating a strong country. "
He expressed confidence that the participation of our country in the exhibition will allow Kazakh culture to become an integral part of the global cultural heritage.
I think that we will achieve the same success with regard to the world trade organization. ditto the wto accession .
In memory of the liberators of the Great Patriotic War, participants in the siege of Leningrad, residents of the city, deputies of the regional and city maslikhats, officers of the military institute of internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and employees of the Department of Defense of the city of Petropavlovsk took part, the report said.
The head of the city noted that the opening of kindergartens will satisfy the needs of local residents in preschool institutions.
Projects are also being implemented in the field of water distribution system and modernization of electrical networks.
currently, processors are faced with the task of producing competitive dairy products.
after the official announcement of the start of voting via the Internet, citizens can cast their vote to the participant who likes it.
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that Kazakhstan's active interaction with eidu in the future has become the basis of our strategic goal - to achieve the level and positions of the members of this organization.
In addition, it was proposed to introduce supply routes in the future as one of the promising modes of transport.
young people volunteer to participate in various spheres of public life.
In order to protect the constitutional rights of 78 employees of the Saryagash enterprise, the Saryagash district prosecutor's office submitted a submission addressed to the chief doctor of the regional State Communist Party "Children's Sanatorium" Saryagash, "according to the results of the review, the constitutional rights of 78 workers were protected with payment of wages in the amount of 6,771,209 tenge," the statement said.
to do all this, it took a lot of research, search. i had a lot to learn .
Currently, the implementation of memoranda is not planned.
at the same time, materials in previously posted election commissions and voting buildings remain in the same position as press and campaign materials.
this exposition is a symbol of courage and power of the East Kazakhstan region, therefore veterans of the armed forces were awarded here.
non-food products predominate in the retail structure (66% of the total retail volume).
importance of high-quality carrying out these representations consists in the fast combination and achievements reached during an educational and training stage and also as a result of all previous exercises "a steppe eagle".
I am sure that if all Kazakhstanis work and make one hand from one sleeve, today the global problems will be very easy, "the Senate deputy concluded.
Today, mass improvement work is underway in the regional center, in particular, in a month, Kokshetauts will see real artistic works of flower gardens on the roadsides.
the auto industry is one of the most badly affected industries.	according to the head of the ministry of investment and development the country 's car industry damaged above all .	0,35
Servicemen of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan handed the veteran memorable gifts and congratulatory letters on behalf of the sailors.	the veteran was presented gifts and a letter of thanks on behalf of the sailors .	0,35
It is nice that everyone can take part in the competition.	firstly i liked the fact that the competition is open for everybody , regardless the age and occupation .	0,35
67.5 billion tenge was invested in fixed assets.	besides , around 30 thousand sq. meters of housing with growth by 17.6 % , compared with 2013 put into commission .	0,35
The Majilis will also set the deadlines at the plenary session for the preparation of the conclusion on two ratification documents, in particular, bills relating to the ratification of the agreement with the Kyrgyz Republic on confidence-building measures in the border area and the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental agreement on the activities of border representatives.	in the second reading the house will consider a draft law  on special protective , antidumping and countervailing measures in relation to third countries . "
however, dsdro experts discuss it at all levels together with international experts.
Recall that as part of this action, many events are being held in cities and a number of districts of the Almaty region.
Today, 78.6 per cent of children between the ages of 3 and 6 are enrolled in preschool education.
we have an independent country, you have no difficulties.
he has been working with this for the fourth year in a row.
In addition, ECE members signed a unified procedure for the use of medicines and medical devices in the framework of the EEO.
and the Chamber is invited to set a deadline for the preparation of a conclusion between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in connection with the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes, the ratification of cooperation agreements in the field of organizing an integrated currency market of the States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
the working group also checked subordinate training services and daily training.
To date, more than 300 Kazakhstani teachers have completed an internship in Turkey on experience exchange programs.
friends and I wish you to prepare for your future adult life and become patriots of your native country, "said Vladlen Timofeevich.
According to the Governor's Office, he maintains good relations in our country towards the prosperity of independent Kazakhstan.
The company produces 7 types of dairy products and is traded not only in Kazakhstan, but also in Russia.
a good example of this is the submission by the city of Almaty of an application for the 2020 Winter Olympics, on the basis of which strong concepts are based.
You want to absorb such a sanctuary and accumulate so much suffering.
As a result, 14.8 km of heating networks will be built and reconstructed for heat supply, 155 apartment buildings will be improved for heat supply.
According to the department, 122 legal entities were registered in the first quarter of this year, 248 were liquidated.
In my youth, I covered a distance of 100 meters in 12 seconds, spent my whole life in sports. every day i walk in the morning .
In calculation, 33 tenge 13 kopecks were received per one common share.
According to him, cultural and creative clusters are aimed at creating the cultural environment of the region and increasing creative activity.
During the meeting, the necessary measures were proposed to reduce oil production.
I want this raw material to be processed here, through which we can make a lot of money, "the head of state said.
The main one is Shevchenko's days, which are celebrated by all Ukrainians in the world, which will be celebrated on March 9-10.
The oath-taking ceremony took place not by chance on the eve of Unity Day.
occupying the place of a long double, Babajans Bagdaulet II, Babajans firmly took third place.
2050 to enter the top thirty countries such as Germany, Japan, Singapore.
According to the ministry, a distinctive feature of the event is the performances of collectives of ethnocultural associations of the Kostanay region, which are the regional branch of the association of Koreans of Kazakhstan, the Tatar-Bashkir national-cultural association "Duslyk."
exporters can access both services and financial support mechanisms.
in the regional center, at the expense of extrabudgetary funds, monuments to Bayan Batyr and Zhusupbek were installed.
What we observe in Kazakhstan, the majority of the population goes to the morning and to the general vote.
People with chronic diseases and their families will get used to new life skills for a month.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan (kha) Anatoly Shokhmakov, in turn, noted that in world history until recently the national issue could be solved in two ways only: all ethnic groups, like the experience of "multiculturalism" widespread in European countries, are mixed "during one October," or preference is given to the nation that assigned the name of the country.
the Institute would be attached to the Supreme Court and would provide continuous professional development for judges.
songs of different peoples danced there at the same time, and students sang colored flags.
foreign creative teams are interested in the fact that we now have many undisclosed topics.	the foreign cultural teams are interested in our national art .	0,36
A total of 41 applications were accepted.	in addition , it is planned to hold an exhibition in the art gallery of shymkent .	0,36
the building has an operating room for servicing the population on the principle of "one window with the sectors of consultants, documentation and registration, issuance of documents."
providing training in 14 priority sectors of the second five-year plan of the industrial and innovative development program, labor market analysis, training of managers and teachers abroad under the new orphan program, projects of the World Bank for business modernization - not the entire list of issues raised by the ministry at the council meeting.
During the meeting, special attention was also paid to the need to actively strengthen inter-parliamentary relations.
Personnel agencies also presented their vacancies at the fair.
The event was attended by Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, heads of specialized departments, consul of the international ski federation roman campus, the federal council and members of foreign delegations.
As noted, the regional "house of friendship" is actively working, which has become a true arena of interethnic and cultural dialogue.
This event was attended by young people of the region and read poems dedicated to fellow countrymen-heroes.
To bring the requirements of the bill into line with the basic law, amendments are made to the "On Grain" and a number of other documents.
All portal services will be fully launched before the end of the year.
perhaps this is the first time we will create other enterprises and plans, but the second five-year plan should correct them without allowing such gaps, the government should solve this problem.
In his speech, the scientist expressed confidence that the national plan will allow Kazakhstan to achieve strategic goals for becoming one of the 30 countries of the world, and noted that every citizen of our country should be worthy of such a mature country.
Welcoming the Algerian guest on Kazakh soil, the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan as a whole seeks to strengthen its relations with Arab countries, including with the Maghreb states.
The jury of the festival includes cultural figures and public figures of the region.
a. Musinov noted that the election of a non-permanent member of the Security Council is one of the most important priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and Kazakhstan is interested in making its contribution to world stability and security.
Among the participants of the event are veterans of the Great Patriotic War, deputies and members of the CIS.
During the talks, the Turkmen side noted the presence of 3 es145 helicopters and the need for their maintenance, training in aircraft equipment b1 and b2, training in working on special equipment on the es145 loader.
this battery was intended for firing ships and submarines, "said Maria Ivanovna.
next to him, our veteran bekbolat is being treated.
Methodist of the Department of Education of the Tayynshinsky District Palimat Chupalaev speaks a fluent literary language, appeals and surprises any language specialist.
however, the number of visitors reached 1 million people.
Coordination of State crime prevention efforts has reduced crime, which is their core structure.
To the question of the resident of Usharal Claudia Vlasenko about whether air traffic will be established in the direction of Ushdykorgan and Usharal-Almaty, the Governor of the region replied that this work will be started.
it was created at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to discuss ways to develop and solve constructive proposals and world development in order to unite the world mind.
Local residents, in turn, thanked the head of state for such good deeds.
The "Alley of Knowledge" was replenished by future holders of the akim grant - seedlings of 90 students.
The bill aims to ensure that persons with disabilities, like members of another society, feel full-fledged.
During the meeting, the deputy akim of the region spoke about the purpose of the minister's visit to the region.
By order of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the
thus, West Kazakhstan State University named after Karbolats and West Kazakhstan region two study grants.
and have created a special model of interethnic and interfaith peace and harmony. "
According to the party's official website, the meeting of the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Bauyrzhan Baibek, with the leaders of the primary party organizations, who had previously participated in a two-day training on improving communication skills, took place in the capital.
Also, for such people, Mynaraltas Company LLC was involved - television, Khantau cement plant - washing machine, akbakai kbk - refrigerator, laundry - district branch of the Nur Otan party.
individual developers built residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 63017 square meters, which is 79.1% compared to 2013.
The event was attended by the chairmen of the district, city branches of the party, heads of state bodies, members of the bureau of the political council, deputies of the regional, district-city maslikhats.
The second silk road line will increase freight traffic through Russia from 10 to 50 million dollars.
this is the first serious step in the direction of dedollarization in order to restore the confidence of the population and business in tenge.
There are recorded statements and communications with signs of a criminal offense.
the population is also concerned about what is happening in the world and the preservation of stability within the country.
commander of the ground forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev.
Everyone will be able to try any products and evaluate their quality.
lower growth was affected by lower power generation.
According to the Speaker of the Majilis, the implementation of joint infrastructure projects will have a great advantage for Europe.
Prize-winners-colleges were awarded the cup of the competition, and students-participants were awarded special prizes.
It is worth noting that the winners will be prepared for tank biathlon competitions on the scale of the ground forces of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
two-time Olympic champion Ilya Ilyin and Russian athlete, silver medalist of the Olympic Games Tatyana Kashirina were recognized as the best athletes of 2014.
and for mandatory technical inspection.
Governor of the region spoke about the advantages of the stopping pavilion, "the Governor's Office reported.
On behalf of the Head of State, the Agribusiness 2020 program provides for the support of farmers to create conditions for increasing the competitiveness of farmers.
The main goal of vocational education is to unlock the potential of young people, "said B. Saparbayev.
this is the Ulan region of East Kazakhstan region, "the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
Recall that early presidential elections in Kazakhstan are scheduled for April 26.
For three weeks, military personnel, under the guidance of experienced trainers consisting of professional sergeants, studied sniper art in the field.
in addition, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, in addition to the above measures, proposes to implement special subsidies for enterprises in the manufacturing sector, especially enterprises engaged in the agricultural and food industries.
and the economy and investment attractiveness of the region favorably influence the formation of a positive image of the region.
Kazakhstan is now a stable, reliable country that takes an example, "B.Atimov said.
The plenary session will also consider a bill on the ratification of the Convention for the unification of certain rules for international air transport.
these mothers were never invited to such parties, so we chose to create such a program for them.
In honor of the anniversary, a monument to the poet will be erected in the center of the village of Karakystak, and a ribbon of the central park will be installed, which will adorn the aul.
traffic police officers are provided with video recorders that record everything done by police officers during a work shift.
this document prevents attempts by legal entities and individual citizens who are residents of Kazakhstan or Vietnam to evade the payment of double taxes and taxes.
65% of 223 projects within the framework of the industrialization map are implemented in rural areas.
Observers and experts drew attention to the high level of campaign organization.
there is also a need to review the approach to valuation of collateral in rural regions.
since the independence of Kazakhstan, the manufacturing sector has received almost 70% of all foreign investments in the economy in the first five-year plan, "added N. Nazarbayev.
then, under the influence of current, it turns into a cathode, and then turns into a crystal lattice in the form of silver crystals.
this is your first big victory as president.
According to him, Kazakhstan has the potential of bioenergy, since 76.5% of the land of this country is agricultural.
in addition, loans were issued for the processing of fish products, the opening of a billiard club and a number of other purposes.
the kha department has achieved great success.
As part of the state program "Affordable Housing - 2020," housing was commissioned in island, state-owned areas.
Kazakhstanis go abroad for treatment.	i am confident that we will receive the patients from all over kazakhstan and from abroad .	0,36
In total, in Kazakhstan, the commission under the local executive bodies for the legalization of property received 17,070 applications totaling 131.6 billion. Tenge.	totally , the legalization commissioned received 17070 applications for legalization of property to the amount of 131.6 billion tenge .	0,36
I think that we managed to implement our plan.	as i consider the program is successful : it is written in language that is tailored to youths , and we can say with gravity that this document is for the youth , because the youths developed it themselves .	0,36
At the end of the survey, participants were given special information books with informative information about the heroes of the Second World War.	by the way , according to the survey the most recognizable portrait is alia moldagulova 's .	0,36
real cash income increased by 0.1% during this period.	cash income increased by 0.1 % .	0,36
As part of the exhibition, bilateral contracts were signed, as well as events on wishes between Chinese countries and companies of the participating countries were held.	as the part of exhibition , the parties signed a bilateral agreement , took measures to a business agreement .	0,36
if independence does not continue, the country's economy will not develop and social issues will not be resolved.	independence is not good for people , if it will not be kept .	0,36
The development of tourism in Pavlodar region will create new jobs for local residents.	tourism management of the city will study the possibility to include  goose flight " natural landmark into the program of unesko " cultural and natural heritage . "
large landowners rent land, regardless of how it is used, whether the land has retained its value, land productivity or not. large land users take land on lease , no one control he uses the land or not .
the event began with the "eternal flame."
at a gala evening held jointly by the creative teams of the city, ethnocultural centers demonstrated their performance.
In addition, the exhibition is an effective platform for cooperation and exchange of experience with leaders of the tourism industry.
In order to establish feedback with patients, information on medical organizations and their ratings http:// www.rcrz.kz posted on the website of the Republican Center for the Development of Health Care.
According to the information of the election commissions of the regions and cities of the capital and Almaty, as of 12 o'clock, 41.69% of voters on the list managed to vote, - said cotton about the participation of voters in the presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to representatives of the Senate of Parliament, the agreement was signed on May 28, 2014 in order to establish the legal framework for joint actions in order to ensure the provision of assistance to representatives of the competent authorities of the two countries in case of emergencies.
today it is necessary to ensure turnout, since most of the population is self-employed, and internal migration is also developed. it 's necessary to ensure voting turnout , because today a huge number of people is self-employed , there is an internal migration in the country , it is necessary to involve the population in the electoral process , " president of " civil alliance of kazakhstan , " chairman of the republican public commission for control elections in kazakhstan nurlan erimbetov said .
I think that strengthening our partnership is primarily connected with mutual understanding between the two countries.
However, according to the president, in 1995, in recent years there has not been a single ready path or route.
The first place was divided among themselves by the airborne assault brigade and the command of the ground military headquarters, which did not withstand a single enemy.
I would be very pleased if I joined the ranks of my works stored in the collections of the State Central Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, regional museums of Kazakhstan, "he said.
representatives of Russian, Ukrainian, German, Tatar, Kurdish and other nationalities unanimously noted that the country has created conditions for learning any language.
These complexes weighing no more than 10 kg, equipped with a silent electric motor, the operator can control at a distance of up to 40 km and at any time exercise control over a territory of 10 square kilometers from a height of a thousand meters.
During the forum in an interactive format, participants had the opportunity to ask questions regarding the geopolitics and tourist attractiveness of the Silk Road region.
Mayor of the city noted that the opening of a kindergarten fully meets the needs of local residents in preschool institutions.
wounded from a spark of a shell on a distant front, returned to his homeland as a disabled person of the 3rd degree.
Recall that voting took place in the republic at 9 thousand 741 polling stations.
the exploits of our fathers and the selfless work of our mothers will forever be preserved in the memory of a generation.
He also spoke about the experience of the Academy in teaching the state language, and also presented to the general public the program and new technologies of seminars on advanced training prepared by representatives of the Academy "official Kazakh language - official Kazakh yak."
as well as a children's, adult and day hospital for 10 places.
The holiday of May 1 was a vivid reflection of the friendship and harmony of peoples and nationalities, civil harmony, unity of about 130 peoples of our country.
all services will be provided, and a school of entrepreneurs will be opened to teach entrepreneurs the basics of business.
we should have explained to the people why we should help other States when we have the same demand.
First of all, we must pay special attention to the quality of cars.
The head of state also noted that one of the 5 institutional reforms is aimed at ensuring the rule of law.
two kindergarten facilities are connected to a common playground, which will make children's walks completely safe.
In the Mamlyut district this year, the fact of fraud decreased by 77%, and theft of property by 28%.	b.rahimzhanov also noted that the citizens also help the policemen .	0,37
according to the Ministry, in most cases, perinatal complications are responsible for infant mortality.	according to the ministry , during 11 months in 2014 , the maternal mortality rate amounted to 9.8 per 100 thousand live births , which is 25 % lower than the same period in 2013 ( 13.2 ) .	0,37
And in the Akkayyn district for 10 months of this year 237 crimes were registered, last year there were 244. this program is very important .
There are 6 mobile mobile complexes.
on the account of his witness, traces of ancient mines, irrigation systems, fortifications and settlements in Altai, Zaysankazanki, Tarbagatai and Saur ridges were preserved.
- The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a reliable, solid foundation of stability and social harmony.
the meeting raised the issue of efficient use of energy resources, which is very relevant for all mankind.
I am sure that our people will commemorate these significant events with dignity.
In order to adapt local personnel to this area, agreements have been concluded with district colleges.
the diversity of professions and professions, training and employment are only part of the fact that they conduct this event.
In accordance with the program for the development of infrastructure of the transport system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020, the construction of 10 bus stations, 10 passenger service points and 80 taxi parking lots is planned in the region.
During the visit parents met with akim and thanked him.
the owners of the silver sign are Zhumagaliyev Gulmira Kenesh, Nauryzalin Raikhan Ubaishaevna, Niyazy Giraldak Satylkhanov.
Deputies, heads and specialists of the akimat, representatives of the regional administration, holding, corporation, Development Fund, leasing companies and international financial institutions, representatives of second-level banks, representatives of regional agriculture, chairmen of departments and workers working in this area were invited to the conference.
the monument 2.5 meters high is filled with bronze.
In addition, the children who arrived in the center told their grandfather frosts and received various sweets.
According to employees, the center will continue to improve its work in search and gratitude.
experts from line ministries, dzdro and the World Bank carry out the necessary calculations, prepare an ams formation mechanism and transfer the population to the insurance model of medicine.
Recall that in such competitions Kazakhstani servicemen take part for the fourth time.
soon the charter of this organization was signed by the united Arab emirates and became a member of the organization.
Photos from materials can be seen with high resolution by simply printing videos on them.
Recall that in the message of the head of state of November 11, 2014 "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" it was about the conditions for the sale of housing.
The next working visit of the Commissioner of EXPO-2017 is planned for Germany and Belgium.
the issue should be addressed through public-private partnerships.
In addition, one of the main tasks is the proposals of entrepreneurs to create favorable conditions for doing business.
teenagers at night are often alone unattended by adults.
in all rural districts of the region, a caravan of celebrations and meetings was held as part of the holiday.
In 2013 4378.9 million tenge was allocated for sports sphere, in 2014 - 6628.6 million tenge.
the need for elections and the issue of its extraordinary holding were discussed for six months or more.
The Prime Minister of India noted that his country has always been committed to further strengthening the strategic partnership with Kazakhstan, which contributed to the well-being of the peoples of both states and made a significant contribution to peace and stability in the entire region.
Majilismen are recommended to consider in the second reading the draft Code of Civil Procedure of the Republic of Kazakhstan with accompanying amendments.
Up to 200 patients will be treated here during the year, "the report said.
The implementation of reforms will be the first goal - a national number based on the next 10 or 15 years.
He also noted that today it is clear to everyone that integration processes in the Turkic world are being formed and developed on the basis of initiatives of the leader of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
In connection with this situation, it is necessary to carry out explanatory work among administrative labor collectives, and in accordance with the labor code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, employees should hold a meeting, "said the head of the region.
The purpose of the competition is to increase the interest of the tourist association in the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Astana (hereinafter - the exhibition) and the formation of tourist products for visitors to the exhibition.
in accordance with the agreement, plans to actively participate in the creation of consultative and advisory bodies on issues affecting business interests.
in this regard, the bill provides for assistance in the peaceful settlement of the dispute as one of the tasks of the bar.
carlo felice also agreed.
its main attribute is a copy of the combat flag of the legendary 72nd Guards Rifle Division.
As noted in the Chamber, the general mechanism for transferring objects to trust management was developed in accordance with the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 04.02.2014.
for example, a song dedicated to the first year of World War II, "said D. Mynbay.
At the same time, the emir noted the importance of creating an Islamic organization for food security, a timely initiative of the President of Kazakhstan and also noted that in the near future they will join this organization and take part in the upcoming general assembly of the Islamic organization for food security in the capital.
In addition, the secretary of the regional maslikhat made a reporting report at the session.
On the eve of such a wonderful holiday as March, we want to do a noble job for the residents of Aktau, for our beloved Caspian Sea.	the campaign was attended by the leaders of youth organizations , educational institutions , activists ,	0,37
It is worth noting that the college operates in a dual education system.	at present , the management of the educational institutions has signed several memoranda on the probation of the students in the enterprises with further employment .	0,37
The meeting participants noted that thanks to the wise policy of President Nursultan Nazarbayev over the years of independence, Kazakhstan developed as a strong, politically stable state.	participants of the meeting discussed issues on preservation objective historical knowledge of the great patriotic war and counteracting attempts of its falsification .	0,37
Taikazan is a symbol of good neighborliness and good, abundance and weaving, mercy and mercy.	as part of the 20th anniversary of the apk the region has done a lot of good deeds .	0,37
The head of the region noted the need to clean and improve yards and territories together with local residents.
the presidents of the two countries also left signatures in the book of honored guests.
In order to provide training for canine specialists at all levels, educational programmes are being developed and improved in accordance with the scientific basis.
government bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and election commissions of all levels ensured free choice of citizens in elections.
preservation of jobs and normal residence of the local population - the main goal facing the akimats of East Kazakhstan region and districts.	workplaces preservation and improving the welfare of local residents is the main task facing the governor 's officies of city and areas of the east kazakhstan .	0,37
The 4th meeting of the Kazakh-Egyptian Business Council was also noted.	the kazakh side urged egypt to join the initiative of the republic of kazakhstan on the creation of the islamic organization for food safety at the oic , headquartered in astana , according to the kazakh mfa .	0,37
It is noted that representatives of ethnocultural centers of Akmola region shared their views on the place that the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan occupies in the unity and stability of our country.	members of the ethnic cultural associations spoke on the role of the assembly in strengthening the role of the unity and tolerance of the people .	0,37
There is an idea to sell an electric locomotive to an Azerbaijani.
it's between diamonds and the lake.
More than 160 people were permanently employed in this complex.
According to the department, this tax provision is valid only in the case of the import of transport for personal use.
Recall that during the conference, world-class doctors will advise citizens suffering from severe forms of epilepsy.
the migration balance was 11,684.
In addition, new projects will be implemented this year.
the session will be attended by more than 1,500 participants.
folk games are a tradition of sports life of East Cossacks.
firstly, representatives of the oil and gas country were interested in the energy issue of the future, and secondly, he asked many questions about how the Kazakh side is preparing for this event.
The document is open, in connection with which it was supported by about 10 media teams.
To increase Kazakhstan's rating in the World Bank's doing business index, a second package of legislative changes will be developed to create favorable conditions for entrepreneurship.
Sarekenov noted the need to create a special working group on tourism at the Kazakh-Malaysian joint trade and economic committee.
in addition, the laboratory for conformity assessment of satellite navigation equipment is located in the building of the satellite center (Astana, the national space center) and is designed to perform the functions of checking and testing measuring instruments of satellite navigation equipment.
in addition, silver aigerim auilbek (58 kg) and bronze Genghis Sagyndyks (85 kg) were added to the Kazakh piggy bank.
In general, in the city of Semey in 2015, about 4 billion tenge will be allocated for the implementation of the White Stream program.
representatives of other faiths and representatives of the Orthodox stream stated the need to promote tolerance and tolerance among the Kazakh people.
It should be noted that the conclusion of the treaty will be carried out through direct negotiations.
During the meeting, Governor of the region A. Batalov gave comprehensive answers to the questions received from residents of the region.
further development is now needed.
that the upcoming parade will be the largest of the past military parades in our state.
Director of the Energy Department of the Eurasian Economic Commission Victor Butcher presented to the participants of the meeting a draft concept for the formation of a common electric energy market.
During the charity event, 27 million 825 thousand tenge will be spent on repair works at the expense of sponsorship funds.
During the discussion of aramotric forms and design solutions, works of creative work were demonstrated, as well as copies of buildings prepared by college students.
This indicator was compiled as a result of an analysis of the actual income of membership fees and appeals of entrepreneurs.
The progress of implementation of the instructions given by the results of the official visit of Mr. Zeman to Kazakhstan in November 2014 was also discussed.
they were also informed of the work on participation in the tender.
In 2014, JSC "Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture" through the Kyzylorda branch will receive a loan in the amount of 500.0 thousand tenge and will begin its activities.
It should be noted that this indicator is created by measures taken to detect and prevent counterfeit goods.
we are all concerned about the growing global economic crisis.
Ensuring police transparency by establishing a system of a public council to consider complaints from citizens complaining of police actions that violate ethical standards.
Several CCTV cameras work in the district center, which helps to quickly solve crimes, "said Governor of Mamlyut District Erbolat Bekshenov.
in the historical part of the military parade, the participation of the army of the foot parade is planned, except for the mechanized system.
it includes representatives of the Department of Internal Affairs, the Consumer Protection Committee, veterinary supervision and control.
In general, this bill will significantly improve migration policy and actively attract people with disabilities to work.
In the same year he worked as a tractor driver at the Stalin State Farm.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the parties noted that Kazakhstan and Japan are states that pay special attention to the study, preservation and promotion of cultural heritage in state policy.
"The results of the presidential election demonstrated the sincere confidence of the people in their president.
almost all teenagers who won the fight, natives of Zhambyl region.
independence is the fruit of our work.
Also, the owner of the airport of Uralsk has an obligation to repair the apron and strip.
Almaty residents and guests of the city gave a decent assessment of the color design of the holiday.
More than half a million employees are provided with a collective agreement, which is 86.4% of the total number of enterprises, the Governor's office reported.
As the schoolboy noted, as a promising area, the issues of expanding the export of electricity potential through the construction of high-precision current from the ekibastuz to the auxiliary point of the water dry are considered.
Thanks to this, a positive result was achieved, the accident rate decreased by 1.5 times, the water consumption - by half.
According to uia, the congress is supported by the organizers of the international exhibition Expo-2017 and is included in the list of main measures.
Tournament participants competed in shooting with a pm pistol and a Kalashnikov-74 assault rifle.
If it is necessary to take appropriate measures in the context of a chronic crisis in the world economy, you have put forward in a timely manner important strategic tasks aimed at developing the country's infrastructure.	leaders of core enterprises of karaganda region , scholars , teachers and students of karaganda state technical university asked the head of state to run for the upcoming elections .	0,38
Having created a rich terminology fund of the Kazakh language that meets the high requirements of our time, we must decisively, consistently, gradually introduce it into all spheres of public life, "the head of state noted in the message of Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 "n.a.
By order of the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Financial Control Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Baiterek Holding and its subsidiaries, as well as the Kazakhstan Mortgage Company, plan to build residential complexes with an area of ​ ​ about 490 thousand square meters through the joint-stock company Baiterek Development.
For three centuries, a state unique type of nomads has formed here, its own policy, a spiritually rich internship.
A. Chebotarev noted that among youth there are interested people, many of whom are already involved in the electoral processes.
By decision of the Soviet government, it was instructed to bring American aircraft.
several large sections are included in this project, "he said.
Thus, according to the results of 2014, the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the production of gross regional product (preferably) reached a record 30% over the past four years (2011 - 25.8%, 2012 - 25.4%, 2013 - 22.3%).
in his welcoming speech, Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin noted that the development of settlements and cities located near the capital should be given attention.
the building of the cinema named after the former altynsarin, undergoing reconstruction into a friendship house, was privately owned by a deputy of the regional maslikhat, an individual entrepreneur.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his annual message constantly demonstrates new proposals and ways out of the crisis.	at the same time , in the future it 's planned to provide 62 institutions .	0,38
this day was a great day when we were able to become masters of our own destiny and determine our own future.	we annually recognize eternal historical power of choice made by our people .	0,38
renewable energy sources will become stabilizers of sustainable development in the future, and these are jobs and energy security of Kazakhstan, "the expert said.
it is important for us to know the opinion of experts on how to improve the work on industrialization of the country, what measures we need to take in this direction.
As a result of the competition, the Seiten and Jumalin family came forward.
The 21st century is the century of spirituality, culture, information.
we can talk about a high civic position and good work of the election company, "said the political scientist.
A check was also carried out on markets in which the Vice Minister of Economy comes to regulate certain types of activities in order to derive state regulation.
we plan to implement several projects aimed at increasing the economic activity of the rural population, realizing the importance of the work of the Cossack Post in rural areas of the country. the party " nur otan " has the most extensive network of the public reception , and it is important for us to reach every villager .
our way along with the bright way of our president. dear compatriots !
Criteria are being developed to determine the loss-making performance of companies. this is discussed .
among them are two heroes of the Soviet Union.
I didn't want to get behind my victims either.	the 17-old girl wrote to the commissioner a letter asking to be off at the front .	0,38
there, if there is a financial service, a postal service is located on the opposite side.	and the postal services is right in front of the entrance .	0,38
The meeting from the Korean side was attended by the director of the department for working with employees of the kwan-seob park and the chief consultant of the ear.	the korean side has been represented by park kwang-seob , the director of human resources nec , kim jong su , the chief consultant of the nec .	0,38
the crew of Lieutenant Colonel Erlan Nauanov and Lieutenant Colonel Denis Gorbunov did everything possible to take the plane from the village.	the crew of lieutenant colonels yerlan nauanov and denis gorbunov did everything possible to divert the aircraft from the village .	0,38
In turn, A. Batalov instructed the leadership of the region to intensify work in the most important areas.	the laboratory is in charge of the quality products , which oversees the entire process works from receiving raw materials to packaging of finished products .	0,38
Currently, thanks to the work carried out to pump meltwater and divert the channel from flooded areas, water has been removed from the flooded 2417 houses of 1831.
The wife of an 85-year-old rear veteran brings up dear sisters of 2 sons and 2 daughters and sees 8 grandchildren in them.
In turn, Dauletiyarov noted the high level of organization of voting.
appellate, cassation and judicial competence of the 1st level.
It is reported that in order to implement this initiative, eco-brigades will be created in the capital consisting of 10,000 participants from 6 main universities of the capital.
here we first declare our values, talk about where we go and how we unite young people.
In addition, members of the ECE board approved a programme for the gradual liberalization of the transport of goods by carriers registered in the territory of member States for 2016-2025.
As representatives of the Economic Commission for Europe noted, the draft agreement will be sent to an interstate agreement by May 1 of this year.
We firmly believe that an interreligious and interfaith agreement is an important condition for strengthening peace and security.	presenting the v congress , mr. tokayev noted new york is associated first of all with the un , its key global forums .	0,39
The Academy is actively developing cooperation on the exchange of experience.	students of the academy are sent to study in countries such as the uk , germany , italy , australia , japan , korea , singapore and malaysia .	0,39
The parties noted that the fight against transnational crime is one of the priority activities of the authorized state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Saudi Arab kingdom, which will be another important step towards achieving a high level of cooperation between the legal systems of the two countries.	the parties noted that the fight against transnational crime is one of the priorities of the authorized state bodies of kazakhstan and saudi arabia .	0,39
the bank also provides an opportunity to fully familiarize yourself with the procedure for creating a pool of buyers and tenants and inspect apartments.	in addition , zhilstroisberbank enables learn more about the procedure of forming pools of buyers and tenants , see the facades of the building and layout of apartments .	0,39
At the end of the lecture, police officers asked their questions and received appropriate answers.	at the end of the lecture the staff of the police  kuzet " asked their questions and received the satisfactory answers from the employee of the center .
It should be noted that the pilots of military transport aviation worked out the landing and launching of soil on the runway in accordance with the combat training plan.
in the near future, youth organizations may completely change - a branch youth organization will appear.	the youth organization will undergo the radical change .	0,39
this institution is popular not only in Kazakhstan, but also abroad.	in 2014 daily milk yield was 2.1-2.2 tons per day .	0,39
according to the results of the contest "Children with Love."
In 2014, special equipment was seized in 10 chemistry rooms, heat boilers were installed in 7 schools.
all these projects are aimed at improving passenger services and gradually solving problems in this area.	the project will track the movement of public transport and will analyze the measures to optimize routes .	0,39
in the future, a lot of work awaits him, especially in connection with the education of the younger generation, "the head of state said.	he established the cardiac center where a the lives of many people have been saved .	0,39
After completion of this work and taking appropriate measures, the number of passenger service facilities will be increased in accordance with the standard.	thus , the share of bus and motor , conforming to the standards in 2020 will reach 100 % .	0,39
The implementation of the agreement and the executive protocol will contribute to improving cooperation between the Contracting Parties in combating illegal migration.
( ... ) this question needs to be conveyed to all businessmen, "the leader of the nation explained.
he was invited to the front from the Novosibirsk region, where he fought in the 85th Infantry Division.
the presentation was held with the participation of the heads of three countries.
According to the Governor of Aldiyar Khalelov district, the supermarket was built on behalf of the head of the region Nurlan Nogaev.
they are interested in the history of our city, a biography of hero citizens born for the country.
of these, 57,459 died, including 25,760 missing.
They also celebrate the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, which has historical significance.
this will allow you to equally stay in business with strong men in character, "said business lady Elena Berezinskaya at a meeting of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs.
for the first time since the beginning of the active development of the oil industry, the processing industry has advanced.
In turn, an elderly woman thanked the head of state for her New Year's congratulations on the 70th anniversary of World War II.
in the eastern regional command, 1,600 officers are being tested.
In turn, the administration undertakes to solve complex issues related to production activities in enterprises, to employ each reduced employee within the framework of the law.
to combat corruption, a special council was created in the university.
Negotiations are under way with many libraries for the delivery of scientific materials.
students of school-gymnasium No. 17 of Astana during a leaflet of pages of the history of the great victory will talk about fiery years of war full of courage, patriotism and love.
"Since 1948, the ferry has conducted 69 peacekeeping missions.
at the command of the General Staff, the ground forces group began to carry out combat training missions at training centers and training grounds.
for six days and six nights in the Dnieper, the front-line soldier spoke about how he and his comrade fought a merciless battle against the enemy.
raising a child is not an easy job in which the attitude of both the father and the mother should be equal.
According to him, in 2014, the area of ​ ​ crops in the republic amounted to 21.4 million hectares.
prize in the nomination of the best instructor - a methodologist in sports in rural areas (the village of Zheleznodorozhnoye, Karasu district, Kostanay region).
- Your merit in what we are doing today is to deepen our economic union.
Within the framework of the program, 91 apartment buildings worth 1.2 billion tenge were repaired in 3 years, including 40 houses worth 668 million tenge were repaired in 2014.
that is, the one who won the ticket sees the place where the famous Turkish war took place.
children play there, and parents bargain.
He read out the congratulations of the head of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev, noted the high level of training and wished success in further military service.
For five years, the industrial industry of Kazakhstan has acquired a new character, and currently the number of employees in the industry in Kazakhstan exceeds 1 million people, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Director of the Aktobe Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs handed over this letter to the heads of enterprises.
In accordance with the requirements of the bill, it is envisaged to amend a number of legislative acts of the country.
Given that in recent years, energy savings in Europe have become one of the issues on the agenda, we are interested in establishing contacts with your regions in this area.
Administrative fines in the amount of 10 million 129 thousand were collected, unfortunately, the figure of some crimes increased.
Therefore, social harmony and political stability in our country value and recognize peace.
This year, new nominations for radio journalists and correspondents raising anti-corruption topics have been added to the reward chain.
During the meeting, topical issues of international cooperation were discussed in the framework of deterring modern global threats, preventing and suppressing extremist and terrorist manifestations.
Also, the head of the region met with the residents of Baikonur and got acquainted with the preparations for the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
How President Nazarbayev made the capital beautiful and beautiful.
growth is obvious, and this is one of our main tasks.
To date, systematic work is underway in the region with enterprises to preserve jobs.
recently, we are talking about the construction of the "saxophonized" railway and the Western Europe-Western China highway, the main gas pipeline "video killer."
Recall that in order to implement the state program of industrial and innovative development, the order of the akim of the region from 2013 approved an action plan for the creation of a regional innovation system.
He also noted that Kazakhstan proposed the theme of the exhibition the name "energy of the future."
According to the press service of the Senate, the main goal of the bill is to ensure the protection of children from harmful information, the realization of children's rights to receive and disseminate information worthy of their age, as well as protection from the penetration of negative information into their information space.
This event was implemented thanks to the signed memorandum of cooperation between the two universities.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev and akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov took part in the meeting.
12.2 billion tenge was allocated for the development and support of the agricultural sector in the form of subsidies.
The author of many scientific works, one of the most respected lawyers of the international level.
that is, they develop without reliance on credit.
This message is a valuable document that determines the further course, goals and tasks of our country, "said the head of the department.
we go not only to Kazakhstan markets, but also to the markets of the CIS countries, where drilling operations are carried out with high import traffic jams, "said a. Yakovlev.
legal norms applied since ancient times, "seven charters" of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the regional Governor's Office, Enki LLP considered the issues of stabilization of production processes, ensuring labor guarantees and labor rights of workers of Akmola region.
In addition, the head of state noted that 23 years ago it was on this day that the armed forces of Kazakhstan were created, which today became a multinational army consisting of professional soldiers and modern equipment.
Here the head of state got acquainted with the work of the smelting shop.
here it may also be necessary to pay property tax requiring the payment of individual income tax.
According to the polling stations of the regions, cities of Astana and Almaty, on April 26, 2015, 19.7% of citizens included in the voter lists received ballots at 10-00 o'clock, "he said at a briefing in the CEC.
for example, there is a people's assembly of the Russian Federation, but it has the status of only a public organization.
In addition, Li Keqiang noted that the Chinese side is ready to train specialists in the field of environmental protection and strengthen ties in the field of health.
The personal list of the deputy allows the user of the site to receive full-fledged information related to the activities of deputies of the majilis, as well as write an appeal to the deputy.
In the team competition, which took place on the last day of competitions, the Kazakhstan portfolio was replenished with new bronze prizes.
The event was organized with the support of ethnocultural organizations of Akmola region.
According to the department, representatives of the competent authorities in the field of technical regulation should deal with the issue of certificates.
It should be noted that from January 12 to 20, methodological work is carried out with cadets to study the moral and mental properties and check the preparation of cadets for internships.
currently there are no products comparable to our products in the CIS countries.
firstly, as you can see, in a foreign country it is impossible to hide everything, you can find it, "he said. Nazarbayev.
Therefore, the issue of building another children's cardiac surgery center to fully cover the districts of the city and the region is on the agenda.
It should be noted that one of the main directions of economic reforms in Kazakhstan is attracting investments in the manufacturing industry and today investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and state priorities for foreign companies will be presented for entrepreneurs of Saudi Arabia.
we all feel like citizens of the same country, and also try not to forget about our historical roots, national features and language, "said A. Bashmakov.
The head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Balkh region noted that the Afghan country intends to increase Kazakhstan's imports and in the future increase the volume of goods received through the Kazakh Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Today Governor of the capital A.Zhaksybekov solemnly handed over the baton "20 good deeds" to Governor of Akmola region S. Kulagin.
As planned, a number of bilateral documents will be signed following the meeting.
among them, legal entities currently operating 5 thousand 837, activists 4 thousand 811, temporarily inactive 724, not yet active 296, subject to liquidation 71.
both with weapons, and in combat, and soldiers who showed an example of victory, admired the audience with their skill.
The ceremony was held by the deputy chief of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Major General Amir Khalov.
During the exercises, military personnel will be given a specific task to repel the attack of a conditional enemy, "the report said.
medical workers will compete in futsal, volleyball, athletics relay 4 * 100 m., athletics, table tennis, armresling, as well as in cable pulling, asyka, wrestling in the Kazakh language, girlhood, kokpara and togyzkumalak, the report said.
from the first days of its opening, he became interested in visitors to the exhibition.
an authorized body in the field of public service, in the field of monitoring the improvement of the quality of public services and in combating corruption.
In addition, at a meeting on the advice of the Supreme Court, the President of Kazakhstan proposed peaceful Shermukhametov with cautious rachmetulin to the supreme judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Director General of isesko with gratitude accepted the special invitation of the Speaker of the Senate of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Tokayev and confirmed his participation in the congress.
This time, children's categories took part in the competition.
Special attention was paid to the educational work of the personnel and the methods of their training.
At the end of the meeting, certificates were handed over and completed.
I sincerely congratulate you on Christmas - a significant holiday of Orthodox Christians, which gives bright and bright joys to the heart of people!
this is the philanthropic gift of an entrepreneur.
During the year, a special commission operates in the capital, whose members conduct consultations and configuration, "said the deputy of the majilis of the parliament in the central communications service.
to implement this task, "said the chairman of the regional branch of RKB KK Veteran.
unique archival documents, front-line stories and musical compositions of the war years have been published on the site.
to open a massage room, a special room was needed, to which the entrepreneur was used.
its construction is carried out in the Zhylyoy district by Tsho LLP.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, including on the legalization of park houses, individual residential buildings, additions.
two facilities in the Tkchina industry were commissioned.
Addressing issues related to the change in the exchange rate of the Russian ruble, Mr. Dzhakupov noted that economic integration is a strategic goal outlined by the heads of state, and not a one-day policy.
this is primarily due to the list of voters and their inventory.
if our people not only externally watched, but also actively participated in events in Kazakhstan, would give their proposals, then Kazakhstan society would be stronger and richer, "he said.
Labor veteran Dian Nurgaliyeva, on behalf of more than 190 thousand veterans of the region, expressed gratitude for participating in the elections and supporting young people:
in total, 5 streets, 4 streets of geologists, intra-quarter roads of the Gauhartas microdistrict and streets of the Samal microdistrict were overhauled, a total of 46 road signs were installed.
In the main part of the event, theatrical performances based on historical times, youth flash mobs, songs and dances of representatives of different nationalities were presented to the audience.
also in order to maximize the coverage of waiting lists and reduce rental payments, apartments are provided to those who are on rational sites.
according to him, we now have everything, and the elections proved it.
The Governor of the region during a meeting with the local population criticized the activities of the region's health care.
at the same time, the bill regulates the powers of state administration bodies in connection with these issues, the rights and obligations of water users, measures of state support for the construction and modernization of water systems.
The honorary mission to receive the relay was carried out by the commander of the minesweeper of the naval base, senior lieutenant Murat Baimukhanov.
According to him, the organization, the purpose of which is to involve more than 193 thousand pensioners in everyday life, without leaving them out of society, in accordance with its charter pays special attention to improving the social and living conditions of pensioners, primarily in connection with the decisions of the head of state and the legality of the state.
This year we are talking about the 70th anniversary of the upcoming victory.
technical support for medical organizations run by local executive bodies.
I will explain this situation.	now it provides only in 30 articles , 69 articles were in the former code .	0,40
As part of the regional assembly, 33 ethnocultural associations and centers carry out cultural and educational activities.	31 ethnic cultural associations and centers operated within the assembly .	0,40
According to Governor's Office of Akmola region, finished products will be distributed in the republic.	finished products are fully realized in the country .	0,40
in addition, a single vacancy portal for candidates will be created to facilitate the search for public services.	improving of the educational process in the academy on practical issues of public service was also in the focus .	0,40
The systemic changes of recent years aimed at implementing a new model of science management under the law "On Science," adopted in Kazakhstan in 2011, made it possible, first of all, to make new changes to the structure of financing scientific activities.
The document is aimed at eliminating contradictions and conflicts between legislative acts regulating the procedure for interaction between the bodies of the penal system and other state bodies involved in the execution of punishment.
Recall, on February 4, 2015, in the mausoleum of K. and in the South Kazakhstan region, a solemn ceremony was held to issue the symbol of the republican action "Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - 20 Good Deeds" under the motto "Taikazan - Symbol of Good Deeds."
he was one of the first to turn to the opening of a conservatory in the new capital.
e.dirisov positively perceived the signing of the agreement on the creation of the oil council in Kazakhstan. ye.idrissov welcomed the signing of the agreement on the opening the fao office in kazakhstan and expressed hope for active attention to the problem of recultivation of lands in the areas of the former semipalatinsk test site and the aral sea , " - the statement reads .
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan united hundreds of nationalities and united its dreams in a single channel.
He also noted that the Samruk Treasury Fund adopted a special corporate standard prohibiting foreign exchange operations by subsidiaries without production necessity.
In turn, the Lithuanian leader accepted the invitation of the President of Kazakhstan.
According to available information, while in 2014 daily food amounted to 2.1-2.2 tons, today it is 5 tons.
Akim also noted the Kazakh-German University in Almaty as a vivid example of bilateral cooperation in the field of education.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, funds were allocated for the study of a section of the road from Aktyubinsk to the Mukurovsky settlement in the Kostanay region and a tender was announced.
A. Musinov expressed hope that the Malaysian Islamic Food Security Organization would join the new international structure, and 23 member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation signed the charter of this organization.
CEC meetings were open to observers and representatives of the media.
Nazarbayev University is one of the first Kazakh institutions to receive the Newton al-Farabi grant.
4 thousand 975 kilometers of rail sleepers were laid on the basis of the production of the machine station of the Railway Repair LLP branch.
and this will give a new impetus to the development of the whole country.
another priority issue is import substitution while providing basic food.
Unity Day in East Kazakhstan region is celebrated in all districts and villages.
each of them contributed to the development of the Security Council.
Mukhtarov noted that both the professional growth of officers and the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan depend on the quality of certification.
The forum's agenda includes issues of resolving Ukrainian tensions and suppressing the activities of the terrorist group of science (isis).
the issue of changing the principle of exhaustion of rights is also directly related to ensuring fair competition among member States of the Union and industrial and innovation policies.
In his speech, B. Saparbayev noted that on behalf of the Head of State, large-scale work is underway in the country related to the development of local content, building up the industrial potential of the region, stabilizing the production situation and guaranteeing workers, preserving labor rights, memoranda have been signed.
the competition was attended by buildings that have already introduced energy-efficient technologies.
Deputy Governor of the region Nurlan Nurkenov in his speech expressed gratitude for the selfless work of doctors and participants of the action.
that is, the bill provides for the settlement of issues of legal and organizational readmission of persons located in the territory of the states of the contracting parties without permission.
The head of the defense organization Igor stavnik presented the medal to the eldest son of the veteran.
A special electronic map has been developed to further stimulate the system and to create it in other areas.
modern women must strive to create their own conditions. "
At the meeting, Deputy Prime Minister B. Saparbayev noted the priority areas of the Address of the Head of State "Nұr zhol is the way to the future," issues of socio-economic development of the region.
ratification of the protocol will allow the Khaktaral railway checkpoint to be legally fixed in the list of Kazakh-Uzbek checkpoints, which will ensure the export of Kazakh goods from the region of the Shardarin reservoir by launching the Uzbek transit railway part.
In the next turn, the winners will compete in the regional competition "Mereili Recessions."
rubella growing season January-April.
an automated regional system of industrial environmental monitoring has been created, which allows online monitoring of the state of atmospheric air quality.
During the meeting, Ad.Daulbayev reported to the head of state on the activities of law enforcement agencies, as well as on the implementation of the order to strengthen the protection of socially vulnerable segments of the population and entrepreneurs.
in the center of the monument there is a plaque for laying wreaths.
the commission considered the development of the cotton industry.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan there are about 160 thousand apartment buildings, the total area of ​ ​ which exceeds 180 million square meters.
the standard of living of the Kazakh people is much higher than in other countries.
the presidents also adopted a statement reflecting actions against the main dangers and challenges of our time.
1.7 million of them study in secondary schools, technical and professional educational institutions and universities, "said the Vice Minister.
The Governor's Office noted that the ceremonial fees will be held in the halls of military glory of the city's schools for 2 days in a row.
212 million tenge collected in a housing savings bank will be allocated for children.
Days of culture of Aktobe region were held in Kyzylorda region, and in October in Aktobe region - Kyzylorda region.
I hope we don't become that experience again.
Veterans were especially happy to meet the guests, although they recalled how this victory came to a head.
The event was organized by the joint efforts of the "civil alliance of Kazakhstan," the Center for Analytical Research "Eurasian Monitoring" (Kazakhstan), the political center "north-south" of Russia, the Institute for Eurasian Studies (Russia) and supported by the "library of the first president-leader of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Funds in the amount of 1256.8 million tenge were allocated and fully used from the national budget.
After the training work, all participants will learn the comprehensive management methods necessary for the management of the enterprise and personnel.
Also, 9 thousand veterans of the rear of the region were awarded medals "For valiant labor in the Great Patriotic War."
he asked the head of the department to pay attention to the restoration of this building.
On April 14, 2014-2015, according to the results of monitoring, the metropolitan chamber compiled a list of popular specialties for the formation of state educational orders of the capital.
today it is safe to say that the funds spent have justified themselves.
In his letter the Kazakh athlete thanks the head of state for warm words and wishes on the occasion of his recent victory in a duel.
In general, a workplace has been created in the first direction of the program, more than a thousand infrastructure projects have been implemented in settlements, "Dr. Argandykov said.
As the senior director of the Association of Centers for Assistance to Victims of Destructive Religious Activities noted, with independence, the Kazakh people received an inexhaustible source of spiritual strength.
a competition authority had been established to ensure that there was no competition problem between them.
The gift of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan is dedicated to the International Women's Day on March 8.
Ensuring full recording and recording of all incidents, ensuring the constitutional rights of citizens.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan of the State program of industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 6 priority sectors and 14 sectors were identified.
According to him, in terms of mining industries, there is a decrease in oil and coal production.
The French side expressed its readiness to share its experience in areas of interest to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
regional centers and cities of national importance have mechanisms for the participation of citizens in the discussion of relevant budget projects.
A specially created commission for the reception and conduct of military contingents was the first to receive units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the armed forces will carry out measures to specialize and train the headquarters of brigades and battalions for the second stage of the exercises, "the report said.
The Commission noted that both veterans were socially well off and had good living conditions.
solar cell plates are available here.
27 documents were signed by the head of state and entered into force.
Further joint work in this area was also discussed.
among our partners, a special place is occupied by the United States, with which, on the principle of reciprocity, long-term cooperation in the criminal legal sphere is carried out.
Therefore, the priority issue for akims, which should currently be involved in the development of the agricultural sector, is an increase in the volume of irrigated land, which increases the volume of livestock products in the region.
In turn, A. Rahman noted the interest of the Malaysian side in akiu activities and noted that the participation of Kuala Lumpur in these events held in the capital will benefit in determining a specific place in relation to akiu, will give a new impetus to bilateral relations in the agrarian sphere.
In addition, Hungarian businessmen were invited to actively cooperate with Kazakh partners, using such publications as the favorable investment and business climate of the Republic of Kazakhstan, membership in the Eurasian Economic Community, the new economic policy "expo 2017," "nұrly zhol" in Astana.
In turn, residents of Kyzylorda region received advisory and diagnostic assistance from kazmub professors within the framework of the memorandum of cooperation.
It is worth noting that members of the commission began to visit polling stations in order to check readiness for voting day.
Thank you for caring for the head of state, which we do for children.	7-10 children will live in each house .	0,41
G. Abdykalikova got acquainted with the historical exhibits of the complex and met with representatives of the local intelligentsia.	she got acquainted with the exhibits and met with the local intelligentsia .	0,41
at the plenary session, the meeting will set deadlines for the preparation of conclusions to the relevant committees in connection with bills relating to amendments to the constitutional law on the judicial system and the status of judges and constitutional laws on the improvement of civil procedural legislation and bills on the conservation and rational use of aquatic biological resources of the Caspian Sea, on the ratification of agreements with Russia on the provision of educational organizations of the city of Baikonur.	also there are the draft laws on ratification of kazakhstan-russian intergovernmental agreement on the transfer of educational institutions of baikonur , the agreement between kazakhstan and bulgaria on judicial assistance in criminal matters , the agreement on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources of the caspian sea .	0,41
In addition, the Tajik flight flies through this region due to technical need.	the flight of tajikistani operator  tajik air " also lies through our city .
The heads of competent authorities noted the need for a unified methodology and procedure for risk assessment in the field of veterinary medicine, prepared on the basis of international requirements to prevent various possible risks.
The Kazakh diplomat drew the attention of the meeting participants to the importance of determining the sources of financing and guidelines for the movement of troops.
Projects of tourist routes meeting the requirements specified in Chapter 3 of these Regulations shall be accepted for participation in the competition.
Their investment volume will amount to about 691 billion tenge, which will create 11.8 thousand new jobs, the Department of Internal Policy of the region reports.
today's theme is to identify ways to prevent trafficking in persons, and the report also highlights mechanisms to combat trafficking in persons.
Another question is that our compatriots do not have the opportunity to read books separately from the republic.
a number of amendments are aimed at improving the state management of maritime transport, "the bill said.
in the labour market, women have low competitiveness, it is more difficult for women to realize their professional and creative potential.
1st place in ski sports (patrol competitions) was won by the Military Institute of the National Guard, 2nd place was taken by the Military Institute of the Ground Forces, 3rd place was taken by the Military Engineering Institute of Radio Electronics and Communications.
saving and helping people and after the war years brought the pinelope panataeva all their lives.
The armed forces of Kazakhstan pay special attention to the development of sports and physical training of military personnel.
Currently, measures are being implemented to bring the farm to 1000 heads.
The bill will aim to improve legislation in the field of state assets management by fixing the legal basis for reducing the state's participation in business sectors of the country's economy.
in the Kostanay region this is a food industry and processing of agricultural products, since, according to business representatives, there is a high demand for these industries in the region.
At the end of the meeting, the head of the region presented gifts to the directors of 11 friendship houses in the region.
According to the Ministry of Defense, from February 11 to 13, 2015 this group worked in the Karaganda region.
In order to stabilize production processes and ensure labor rights and guarantees of workers in 2014, 1539 memoranda were signed at enterprises and organizations, 3634 collective agreements were signed in the city of Petropavlovsk and in all regions, "the Governor of the region said.
also at the meeting, the draft Rules for the Creation of Councils of Heads of Veterinary Industries of the EAEU Member States prepared by the special commission was supported.
According to the Department of Land Relations of East Kazakhstan region, 20,378 applications of citizens have been received in the region since 2005.
using these devices, experts will find out what dirty waste is thrown into the air.
total measles immunization in the country vaccinated 493,000 people and registered 432 adverse conditions.
In his speech B. Sagintayev stressed that support of the domestic producer is one of the main directions of the anti-crisis policy.
In 2014, 40-60 centners of the crop from each hectare of fodder crops, 80-100 hectares of corn and wheat, 350-400 centners of silage were obtained here.
in the past legalization no one is punished, bring your money to Kazakhstan, let them work for us.	the future income and expenditures declaration will reveal the difficulties .	0,41
it is worth noting that 70% of the public transport system is environmentally friendly transport	it requires to the modern model of transport , replenishes the budget and improves the ecology of the city ,  the mayor said .
every year the material and technical basis of educational institutions is improved.
according to the memorandum, he is the only official representative of the kaztest in the field of health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the kindergarten improves preschool children with disabilities in the area and provides education to each child for health reasons, contributes to the desire for their places in society.
The head of state also announced the launch of the production of aromatic hydrocarbons as part of a teleconference.
each minister has 2-3 orders before the akim.
The main task was to prevent corruption in the field of education and stop the formation of corruption consciousness among young people.
As the president noted, we have a plan in case the price of oil is 70, 60, 50, 40 dollars per barrel.
Recall that today in the capital, within the framework of the meeting of heads of government of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, meetings of the leaders of the member states of the organization are held.
addressing the participants of the meeting, B. Saparbayev drew attention to the need for timely and qualitative implementation of the instructions of the head of state to ensure employment, maintain social stability and implement 5 institutional reforms.
The event was attended by more than 3,000 participants and guests.
as the history of modern wars and armed conflicts shows, often this art is crucial.
among them are unemployed, low-income citizens, of which about 2 thousand from the South Kazakhstan region.
summing up the discussion, B. Saparbayev stressed the need to increase the status of science and scientists in order to attract the best specialists to the scientific environment.
in their opinion, the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will strengthen the patriotic spirit of the country's citizens and increase their interest in the history of their country.
According to experts, open data will strengthen the links between the private sector and public authorities.
Summing up the results of the reporting meeting, Governor of the region Akbatalov noted that there is a lot of work to be done in the region:
thus, after the election of the khan, one of the most anticipated holidays of the people is "khantalapai."
on the day of voting, when an absentee certificate and a document confirming the identity of the voter are presented, the precinct election commission adds it to the list of voters at the place of residence.
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the end of the worst war in human history.
we need it as air.
then the defenders of the Stalingrad city showed amazing heroism and courage. "
all this makes us take steps to reduce the approved budget, "said N. Nazarbayev.
today's holiday is a solemn manifestation of the wise policies of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The purpose of the protocol is to exempt value added tax on works and services performed by the French side in the framework of projects for the creation of a space remote sensing system and a spacecraft assembly and testing complex.
they confirmed that they are working, they are interested in this proposal, "said the vice president of ktzh uk" kanat alpysbayev.
events in the framework of the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
and the Code of Administrative Offenses introduces norms that tighten liability for violation of legislation on gambling.
twice a year, according to the results of the half-year, the government reports on the work done as part of the teleconference.
It is planned to hold 1314 festive events totaling 1005 thousand tenge with coverage of 31 people.
songs about peace and friendship, about the homeland and people.
Another measure will be to check the knowledge and compliance of military personnel with anti-corruption legislation when certifying officers.
Representatives of the Russian Embassy in Slovenia and the Embassy of Belarus in Italy came to honor the memory of Soviet soldiers.
this indicates the importance of operational and sustainable management.
The main goal of the meeting is to create production enterprises in the industrial zone adjacent to the shelf station of the Talgar district of Almaty region.
In 2013, out of 3,756 people with lung cancer, 2,989 died (17.6 per 100 thousand population).
The main theme of the festival was stained glass and mosaics from ethnic drawings and Kazakh patterns.	the design theme includes popular trends of the season such as the stained glass and mosaics , combined with ethnic patterns and ornaments .	0,41
In this regard, each ethnocultural center of the region should organize various charitable events in accordance with the project.	it is so much useful and good actions that should be made by every ethnic and cultural association .	0,41
Opening the meeting, Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov noted that the region regularly holds meetings on issues of Kazakh content, during which relevant memoranda are adopted.	opening the forum , governor of north kazakhstan region erik sultanov said that the practice of holding forums on local content with the contracting of memoranda is resumed in the region .	0,41
and the INC meeting, in discussing these issues, envisages taking appropriate measures to further prevent, limit or eliminate the circumstances affecting them.	the meeting is intended to discuss important issues and develop effective measures to improve the legal framework for the prevention , control and suppression of monopolistic activity and unfair competition in product markets of cis member states .	0,41
To date, the construction of the facility is in full swing, it is planned to be commissioned in September.	the object will be built by september .	0,41
During the conversation, the heads of government discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation.	the interlocutors noted intensively developing economic and trade cooperation , active in the kazakh-turkish intergovernmental commission and the close ties between the business communities of the two countries	0,41
In addition, the organizers congratulated the veteran of World War II on his 90th birthday, presenting him with a financial certificate.	the organizers of the event handed over vladlen lesnichy a monetary certificate and congratulated on his 90th birthday .	0,41
other children receive gifts on New Year's Eve.	i thank very much people who organized such event .	0,41
In the first five-year period of industrialization, 4 thousand roads and 1 thousand 700 kilometers of railways were built.	it should be noted that 4000 km of roads and 1,700 km of railways were built during the first five year plan of industrialization .	0,41
Trade and turnover indicators have a great influence on economic growth.	retail trade turnover increased by 1.7 % , weight turnover - by 0.9 % , which is an important factor in the growth of the economy .	0,41
then ski races were organized.	the ski race , and youth flash mob  we are strong by friendship " will be held at the ice rink .
Representatives of the Association of Higher Educational Institutions of Kazakhstan, which unites 77 higher educational institutions registered in the country, support the initiative to hold early presidential elections in 2015, which were raised by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. the association of higher education institutions of kazakhstan is a non-commercial organization of legal entities established in february , 2002 .
Last year, he won a grant to open a sewing workshop with the participation of the sixth branch of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
This event is aimed at further strengthening the foundation of our unity through charity and humanism.
The forum was organized by the British authorities in honor of the celebration of the 800th anniversary of the Magna Carta of Freedom - a magical map created to promote a free economy and the rule of law.
As noted in the press service, the documents and legislative amendments received at the meeting contain issues of improving criminal enforcement legislation, migration and employment.
local carriers previously did not have access to purchases of subsoil users.
A workshop for the production of concrete of autoclave honeycomb structure was also launched.
The Minerals Act was adopted and entered into force this year.
at the second stage, when teachers needed to teach Kazakh in an unfamiliar audience, it was necessary to decide what the participant of the third stage from unconditional human facial expressions was talking about.
today poultry farming is one of the most developed animal husbandry industries in Kazakhstan.
At the end of last year, we reported to the head of state on the activities of the national chamber.	the head of state debriefed on outcomes of the nce activity .	0,41
In addition, 11 employees were awarded commemorative awards in the nominations "best investigator," "best personnel officer," "best forensic scientist," etc.
Also at the event, the chairmen of ethnocultural associations spoke, who expressed gratitude and wishes for the organization of such events.
In particular, they are currently preparing to increase the volume of offshore, Karachay fields and initiate oil production from chestnut, "said the Vice Minister of Energy of the Magzum Myrzagaliyev.
among our youth there may be innovators such as bill gates, philosophers such as abai kunbaili, scientists such as satbaev, mukhtar auez.
The exhibition began with the display of copyright jewelry, accompanied by the performance of Mukhametsadykov on skis.
6 veterans of the Great Patriotic War in the residential complex "Tlendiyev" and in the city new apartments in the residential complex "Munar" on the street kudaiberdiula.
in the final, teams of Pavlodar secondary schools and pupils of the home of schoolchildren of the May region performed.
According to the department, after a business trip, the passenger needs to hand over the following documents: an electronic ticket on paper; a boarding pass issued by the conductor through the mobile terminal to the train; a document confirming payment of money for an electronic ticket.
Almaty received 576 athletes from 36 countries, 560 volunteers were involved, more than 30 gardens from around the world were registered.
According to the regional akimat, 295 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the state youth policy, about 2 thousand events were held.
As noted, the students of pentathlon and working youth and villagers were explained the main directions of the message of the Head of State "Nұr zhol - the way to the future."
In accordance with Order No. 22 of the Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan of May 29, 2015. He was appointed the responsible president of the Information and Analytical Center for Employment, who previously held the post of Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is expected that another center for supporting entrepreneurship will be launched in the Zhylyoy district of the region.
photographs and personal profile data of the participants of the collected contest are published on the official website of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
it all depends on the attitude to life, the system of values ​ ​ of citizens of a particular state, clarifying the way of life.
Your performance at the inaugural ceremony has great breakthrough power.
According to the executive director of the company, Ramazan Malhajarov, the factory, due to subsidies, increased the number of poultry and updated production, "the report said.
On behalf of the Noveselsky rural district, we want to thank the leadership of the region, "said the villager hope Kapyuk.
The priority area is the step-by-step and impartial development of a common electricity market for the electricity systems currently in operation.
in society there is a need to preserve culture, "said a. Musakozhaeva.
use of materials in any form is allowed only when referring to the official website of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan
According to the EEC, the adopted agreement will allow member states to establish an indicative balance of gas, oil and petroleum products.
each thing of the hall was thought out, prepared and shown at a high level.
without the help of such public funds, I would not have achieved this enterprise.	according to director of kindergarten olga zharkova said the branch has launched within state-private ownership which is an important part of balapan state programs 's realization .	0,41
The Vice Minister also noted that the concept of the bill on the reconstruction of the state property structure has been approved. the concept of the bill on reforming of the state property is adopted .
tamara sergeevna hardly copes with the household.
During the work on the bill, more than 250 amendments were made, the name of the bill was changed.
full reconstruction will be completed on July 1.
their work, begun as city events, aroused interest among representatives of the ethnic group.
in addition, the commission decided in court to deprive two universities of educational licenses with further sending materials to the relevant authorities.
your life is fully aimed at protecting the Motherland, you chose this profession, so you need to improve it, study world experience, everyone should be the best in their activities, "the President of Kazakhstan said at the state awards ceremony.
Note that in the region there is now a 92 veteran of the Second World War.
his dedicated work in the field of education and education will not be forgotten by subsequent generations.
sp is a primary party organization created on the basis of at least three party members.
this decision was caused by the fact that these candidates did not appear at the meetings of the linguistic commission, and their compliance with the constitution and the constitutional law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" regarding the definition of fluency in the state language was not established for candidates.
the workers of the rear with their selfless work brought the day of victory closer.
the Prosecutor General also informed the Ambassador about the establishment of an academy of law enforcement agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office and offered to cooperate with the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies of Kazakhstan.
According to the media center of Akmola, the region has developed a plan of events to celebrate anniversary events, including events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
it was a great opportunity for servicemen to learn some unique things about the war.
The head of the region instructed the Mayor of the city to install a land plot in the new bus station.
it is physical therapy, physiotherapy exercises, dietary food.
At the same time, as the deputy assured, the family will never become an obstacle to a career.
In 2015, Kaztransmoil plans to replace 145.6 km of the Kazakhstan section belonging to the white tone-2 pipeline.
Most of the consumers of ks services are in each region in the field of akmola and eye 18 and Almaty and vko 17.
It should be noted that the President of Kazakhstan, the chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" N. Nazarbayev signed a resolution on convening the next XVI party congress.
After it was recorded as an unsuitable thing, and she was abandoned by a public figure, akim of the region, "he said.
its construction provides a positive economic effect for both the state and potential investors.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the train is organized along two routes: zhambyl - drilling, zhanatas, zhambyl - chuanakar.
A member of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan recalled that voting takes place in the republic at 9,741 polling stations.
she was not only skillful in art, but also distinguished by her dignity.
A visit to the burials of World War II veterans was organized on the occasion of the 65th anniversary of the Victory.
In its composition, the cars had special devices for the treatment and removal of victims, as well as an operating room, a dining room, the COA of Kyzylorda region reported.
The Committee is actively working to improve the legal literacy of entrepreneurs.
The facility, which was commissioned this year, is the largest health center in the region.
this great day occupies a special place in the hearts of every Kazakhstani.
at the end of the dance, the youth says: "Together with the people - to new victories!" Hundreds of blue balls were launched into the sky under the motto.
their health not only improves, but also rejoices.
Recall that the city of Kapchagay and Volokolamsk became fraternal cities.
Since this year, law enforcement agencies have been working in the framework of a new model of criminal proceedings, - said dauybayev.
It is noted that the social responsibility of large retail chains is felt and pleasing.
a copy of the battle flag received in eastern Kazakhstan will be transferred to the Pavlodar region through Semipalatinsk and the city of Kurchatov.
The Kazakh Minister noted that Australia is an example of preserving the national cultural heritage, and expressed hope that in the future cooperation in this area will be effectively carried out.
According to him, on January 20 of this year the text of the agreement with the European Union was announced.
The purpose of these fees is to provide the air force with highly qualified officer personnel that meet modern requirements, the report said.
This year, a set of classes is also planned.
The main purpose of the program is to register unemployed people living in rural districts, low-income citizens and employees.
we got a balance between crop production and animal husbandry.
in the second task, the candidate violated the orphoepic norms of the Kazakh language when reading poems from the "black words" of abay.
more than 100 good offices have been conducted in some areas.
more than 1,000 additional jobs will be created.
in general, all objects of the exhibition complex will be provided with high technologies.
this department was opened in order to study the reasons, the history of immigration of representatives of other ethnic groups to the country.
he is a reference point for each military in the work and occupies a special place in the anti-corruption service.
The bill provides for additions to the country's labor code in terms of guaranteeing an employee or employee who participated in peacekeeping operations.
holding today's conference at the prestigious venue, where Nursultan Nazarbayev twice gave his historical lectures, is a great ritual.
On the basis of the city children's hospital, a meeting on primary health care was held by the First Vice-Minister.
in general, changes and additions have been made to the water, land, budget, environmental codes and a number of legislation.
The Head of State noted that Akmola is the food pillar of the capital.
Voting in the presidential elections began at 7-00 o'clock in Astana time and lasted until 20-00 o'clock in the evening.
The Speaker of the Majilis, in turn, drew attention to the model of tolerance of Kazakh society, which is strengthened every year thanks to the policy of the head of state.
the concert will be held as part of the fourth Moscow Easter festival.
Speaking about the scale of the action, it is worth noting that in the period from March 26 to April 24, 300 thousand families were covered in Kazakhstan and 80 billboards were posted.
The equipment required for steam was brought from Russia, worth 6 million tenge.
D. Turlykhanov thanked for the fact that as a result of the support of the Head of State, the necessary infrastructure is being built in domestic sports not only in large cities, but also in remote regions.
Sagintayev also added that more than 300 thousand people are in line to receive housing from the housing and communal fund.
also on the portal of the ministry on an ongoing basis, interactive relationships of various genres with the registrars of the portal are established.
Recall that the Kazakh delegation will visit Latvia on April 15.
this is really a Kazakhstani record.
Construction of 33 projects has begun here.
analyzing the election campaign in Kazakhstan, it is worth noting the high level of organizational work of both the headquarters of candidates and the election commissions as a whole. analyzing the pre-election situation , it is necessary to note the high level of organization .
despite the difficulties of that time, he became a strong state and expanded his possessions.
Already this year, we are considering making seventy percent of all our buildings in the social sphere accessible to citizens with disabilities.
During the meeting, the view was expressed that this experience should be further applied.
Special working groups were involved in the areas.
we are honored to hold competitions of this level.	576 athletes from 46 countries participate in the event , 560 volunteers involved as well .	0,42
he is a visionary politician.	nursultan nazarbayev is a clever and far-sighted politics .	0,42
then people with flags in their hands went up to the stage.	the rally has been finished at independence square .	0,42
Also today, the ceremony of signing an interstate agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters took place at the Government House.	also the ceremony of signing of interstate treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was held yesterday .	0,42
The main purpose of the forum is to create a dialogue platform.	the event is the organization of a platform for discussion of issues of interest in the field of nuclear medicine .	0,42
One of the latest initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan in this area is a global campaign, which provides wide-scale public support for the entry into force of the nuclear project - hawks.	having been affected by nuclear tests which were conducted at the semipalatinsk test site , kazakhstan voluntarily renounced the possession of nuclear weapons in 1992 .	0,42
therefore, representatives of the internal affairs bodies themselves visit their homes.	head of the district police department colonel marat tulebayev expressed deep gratitude to the veterans of the great patriotic war .	0,42
after restoration works road - cement concrete, 4 strips belong to i technical category.	after the reconstruction the road will be taken to the i technical category with four-lane movement and cement concrete pavement .	0,42
He noted that the fund of the National Museum of Kazakhstan is annually replenished with works of art.	the musem bought work by aleksey talaschuk  lodocnhik " another two paintings the artists presented to the museum personally .
I am endlessly proud of my brother's letters from the front "
The experience of the PSC and what is very important.
Thanks to the state program "Employment Roadmap 2020," Aktobe residents will be able not only to learn the required specialties for free, find work, but also to get loans at minimum rates and open their own business, "said the secretary of the regional maslikhat.
in turn, it is enough to provide lighting for 30,000 houses.
at the request of these regulations, provision is made for the provision of modern interstate standards, "the report said.
home delivery of rehabilitation aids will reduce travel costs for persons with disabilities living in remote settlements and extend the life of rehabilitation aids.
As a result of the work, train specialists provided medical assistance to 2,786 people with various diseases, including 454 children.
According to him, in order to prevent illegal interference by state bodies in the affairs of business entities, four mobile rapid response groups operate.
Speaking about flood control measures, akim noted that the work within the framework of the comprehensive plan is under control.
enterprises should indicate the results of public funds allocated for this purpose.
w. Bukhtugutov stressed the importance of increasing the Kazakh content in consumer activities and the commodity share of enterprises in the region.
state akbulak "in the village of o. malibaev.
in addition, ams provides for the widest possible provision of curative medicines to the population.
an important issue that must be taken into account in this bill, which is raised by our deputies, is, first of all, the provision of employment.	chairman of the majilis kabibulla dzhakupov noted that employment issues of convicted are highly relevant .	0,42
First, guests and participants of the event got acquainted with the exhibition of national crafts and books of ethnocultural associations.	the participants and guests visited the exhibition of folk crafts and books of the ethnocultural associations .	0,42
The agreement focuses on vocational training and retraining of personnel for the needs of educational organizations.	according to the authority the agreement will regulate labor relations , salaries of educational , medical and library employees of educational institutions , their working hours and other social guarantees .	0,42
On behalf of the tr government, he confirmed Tajikistan's participation in expo 2017.	on behalf of the government of tajikistan , mr. said confirmed the participation of tajikistan in expo 2017 and assured that dushanbe will be adequately represented in the exhibition in astana .	0,42
specialists of the Arsha library hope that the day of the book's gift will become a tradition for Akmola residents.	the specialists of arshaly library hope that the day of giving of books will be the opportunity to show the good feelings of akmola residents .	0,42
heads of courses N. Baidrakhmanov and K. Sulikanov and teachers who have completed qualification courses of the second level.	at present , the plant reached full project capacity , producing up to 2,500 loaves per day .	0,42
In order to expand bilateral trade and economic ties, the parties noted the need for a Kazakh-Egyptian intergovernmental commission.	taking into account the forthcoming v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions the diplomats expressed their readiness to continue joint efforts to promote interfaith dialogue .	0,42
in addition, separate decisions were made aimed at forming the effective activities of the Eurasian Economic Union.	it should be noted separate decisions taken towards the formation of eaeu effective activity .	0,42
The reason for including a citizen in the list of voters at a particular polling station is the fact of his registration at his location in the territory of this polling station.	the citizen can be included into the voter list at a particular polling station in accordance with the fact of his registration of residence in the territory of the polling station .	0,42
body length 41 cm, weight 300 g, wing length 22-25 cm.	the ibisbill is a bird related to the waders , but sufficiently distinctive to merit its own family ibidorhynchidae .	0,42
questions that were asked after the report showed that students had a civic position aimed at obtaining social risks such as corruption.	during the event , students and teachers were explained the state 's policy in the field of preventing and combating corruption offenses , were described in detail the rights and obligations of citizens .	0,42
As the head of the military orchestra service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur halfback noted, the military will take part with great pleasure and perform at charity concerts.	a highlight of the concert program was a drummers show directed by senior military conductor of the central military orchestra of defense lieutenant daniar bultrikov .	0,42
they should be part of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
today half of pensioners received their New Year's gifts.
Ensures the active participation of young people in public life.
Based on data from March 2015, 18, the number of necessary ballots for the elections established by the Central Election Commission on March 26 increased by 157 thousand people.
On May 9, a ceremony of laying flowers at the Eternal Flame memorial in Kokshetau will take place.
each veteran has his own front-line story and military life.
I wish you many joyful days for our country to flourish and your exploits to become an example for subsequent youth. i wish our country be prosperous and your feat serves as an example for our next generation .
The Governor of the region congratulated all those gathered for the holiday.
then they dismantled and assembled the Ak-74 assault rifle, and independently performed shooting exercises in a specialized shooting dash.
this indicates the reputation of our president outside the country.
In the last days of the outgoing year, a new two-room secondary school for 172 students was opened in the village of Amangeldy, Wilsky District.
there are no first results of this work, some jurisprudence has developed, problematic issues have been identified.
The presentation of products of Euroopter Kazakhstan Engineering LLP for the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Turkmenistan and the defense industry also took place.
and other participants in the competition were awarded rewards and letters of thanks for nominations.
On May 7, 70 pieces of aviation equipment, which is part of Kazakhstan's weapons, will be lifted into the air under the Astana sky.
students of the academy will be sent to study in the following countries - Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Australia, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia.
this will be the second historical work in the works of d.mramazan and b.buzakov.
3-4 years ago, the issue of assigning the name of Lenin Order School No. 8 in the city was raised, and relevant documents were collected.
Within its framework, books will be distributed in libraries of cities and settlements where trains will pass, the press service of the Republican State Enterprise "Public Consent" reports.
According to the director of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs, the reason for choosing the Mangistau region is that there is a lot of sun in the region.
most of the measures included in the plan are aimed at providing direct assistance to Kazakhstani enterprises: reducing or maintaining tariffs for railway and electric power services, maintaining production volumes through state contracts and financing resources, the II Congress of the NPP said in a statement.
Under the Agribusiness 2020 program, work is underway to irrigate remote pastures.
The competition was attended by 9 applicants aged 18 to 30 years.	the organizers are region 's department of internal policy and the secretariat of the assembly of people of kazakhstan of kyzylorda region .	0,43
today's holiday is a guarantee of the unity and peace of the people.	festival today is evidence of the unity of our people , our values , common history and the future of all .	0,43
Note that Ayzhan abdubait restores and reconstructs the clothes and life of the centuries that remained in the bowels of history.	the restoration of technology of the well-known kazakh zergers of the xviii-xix centuries became a result of long work .	0,43
According to representatives of the House, domestic producers did not stand aside.	as noted the nce noted domestic producers also participated .	0,43
Kazakhstan's exports to Russia and Belarus increased by 63% and amounted to $6 billion.	the structure of the eaeu also is formed by the intergovernmental council at the level of heads of government , eurasian economic commission and the court of the union .	0,43
The 324-apartment residential building will be commissioned in the fourth quarter of this year.	this 234-room apartment house is in the same neighborhood .	0,43
During the conversation, preparations for the world exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana took place.
K. Tokaev expressed confidence that the arrival of the First Saldan to this position will help to activate the young people of the region.
During the meeting, the issue of creating territorial joint transport and logistics centers in the border region of Iran and Afghanistan to concentrate permanent shippers was raised.
The Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan is one of the organizers of this event.
increasing the number of enterprises with colleges in which a dual education system has been introduced, allows students to carry out industrial practice. the increase in the number of colleges and businesses suggests that the dual training allows the colleges to fix the students on production practices and job training in enterprises without much effort , thanks to the work of the college and businesses within the dual training .
after the balkashi, representatives of a foreign region meet the baton.
To date, three Kazakh officers have been sent to these countries.
this master plan consists of 7 sections: analysis of the current situation in the tourism cluster, assessment of the development of promising segments of the tourism cluster, the development plan of the tourism cluster of Pavlodar region, a phased mechanism for the formation and promotion of the tourism cluster, methodological recommendations for the implementation of the master plan of the tourism cluster of Pavlodar region.
in particular, the stepan furrow lives in the city of Chicago, Ivan Kosenkov in the Ustobin district of the Almaty region.
In total, 186 people were selected to participate in the parade.
this should be noted in order for the Kazakh army to constantly help and warm people in need of special care.
the scheme made it possible to clarify the specialization of each area in terms of areas.
I sincerely congratulate you on your victory in the presidential election!
The ground forces today have dozens of types and samples of unmanned aerial vehicles in service.
He noted that under the leadership of the leader of the nation, Kazakhstan from the young state has become one of the most important states in the world.
According to the Foreign Ministry, a.marinos, having made one of the zakynthos and cities of Kazakhstan fraternal, organized visits of bilateral delegations and cultural events, invited Kazakhstan to cooperate with Turbomed, which is engaged in the production and transportation of olive oil and dry fruits from the Zakynthian city.
Today, the 5, 7, 9-story residential complex commissioned is located in the southwestern zone of the city of Taldykorgan.
The main importance of the workshop is that 80% of silver and 25% of gold account for a liter.
thanks to the persistence of the spirit of our soldiers, a humble people who worked relentlessly for victory, our country was able to celebrate victory in this long war.
In addition, according to the results of the spring-autumn fishing season, 4,064 tons of fish were caught by fishing enterprises from the Caspian Sea, 3158 tons from the floodplain river.
representatives of the youth wing of Pavlodar region organized a flash mob and a dance tournament dedicated to the inauguration of the President of Kazakhstan.
During the rally, a ceremony of laying flowers at the memorial stele will be held, during which a memorial capsule will be awarded to the participants of the car seat.
In a word, entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to increase their knowledge and skills and work competently.
I plan to take part in 5 reporting meetings, visited the Akkol region, met with residents, exchanged views on unresolved issues and gave specific instructions.
The leaders of the two countries drew attention to the problems in the economy of the EAEU member states that require a joint solution.
During this time, jobs were created and unified solutions were created on the management of entrepreneurs.
14,631 residents of 16,200 evacuated from the beginning of the flood returned home.
Today, the share of teachers of the first and highest category of preschool institutions is 27%, by 2017 the share of qualified teachers will reach 31.2%.
the range of these products - beams, corners, channels - is in high demand in the construction market.
at the philological faculty of Shakarim State University of Semey, a competition for figure skating "Multi-layered competition of skaters" was held, dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
One of the issues on the agenda is environmental monitoring in the northern industrial zone of Pavlodar on the territory of the former chemical plant, where demercurization work was carried out.
start-up tour 2015 "can take part in a competition of any category, that is, everyone," the statement said.
then the Altayenergo enterprise was created, on the basis of which the East Kazakhstan Regional Energy Company was launched.
reports by experts of the legal company pearl cohen.
the celebration of this anniversary date has increased the interest of compatriots in the history of our country and will positively affect the strengthening of the spiritual and cultural concentration of society.
This is a separate institution that allows you to ignore state decisions.
The Chamber works actively with the representation of senior expert services.
we must create all conditions for our citizens to work in our country.
and on the basis of the cargo terminal, together with the transport logistics center, air logistics will develop.
The issue of building rental housing is in the center of attention of deputy akim of the region Vladimir Bubenko.
the Italian audience followed with great interest the performance of amazing Kazakh dances and looked at bright costumes, Astana Opera reports.
Note that the portal will be online.
modern technology is installed in wide classes.
this would allow establishing direct contacts between the business circles of our countries, as well as reaching concrete agreements and implementing these agreements in mutually beneficial areas, "he said.
In the next competition, which will be held in Almaty on March 19-20, participants will be able to take part in master classes of the best specialists in the field of investment projects.
The President of Georgia expressed hope that issues related to the strengthening of Kazakh-Georgian relations will continue to be the focus of attention of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
more than 100 proposals and comments were received from the standing committees and deputies aimed at clarifying and improving the content of certain norms of the bill.
Muhammad al-Kagbi has accepted with gratitude the invitation of the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan - the head of the secretariat of the congress by the Cass-generous Tokai to take part in the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11.
thus, they contribute to the education of future patriots of Kazakhstan.
Today, 5 thousand 598 primary party organizations unite about 849.7 thousand party members.
One of the famous Italian singers donata d'annunzio lombardi is a descendant of the famous poet d'annunzio.	italian opera diva donata d 'annunzio lombardi , a descendant of the famous poet gabriele d 'annunzio , is very popular in europe .	0,43
during training, each tank crew tries to demonstrate its skill as much as possible.	as explained in the ministry of defense , in training every tank crew is trying to demonstrate all their skills .	0,43
a symbol of the feat of the memorial of military glory of the city of Karaganda from eternal fire was delivered to the city of Balkhash.	on the eve of the birth of balkhash the memory symbol of heroism , lit from the eternal flame monument of military glory of karaganda , arrived in balkhash .	0,43
A feature of the festival was that among its participants for the first time they entered the stage.	one of the features of this festival was the participants did not perform solo .	0,43
these products will subsequently be supplied to the assembly plants of the open joint-stock company Kamaz.
As the head of the higher military educational institution, Major General Askhat Lynx, noted, thanks to this event, the status of the university as a coordinator of military training for the country's armed forces after higher education is growing.
This year 240 million tenge of subsidies were allocated for sugar beet cultivation in our region.
In general, in order to improve the legislation of our country, many measures are being implemented.
Recently, entrepreneurs living in this area have been aware of the need for advanced training and advanced training.
In addition, "a week with veterans of the Great Patriotic War is a man who gave me the future!" ".
of these, 15,652 lands were granted, 4,726 applicants were registered on the queue in the land affairs departments of cities and districts of the region.
Kan recalled that Kazakh statehood begins with Kerey khans.
Bashirov also met with students of creative specialties of universities, colleges and crafts masters.
This year, the school of entrepreneurship for the first time launched several new projects in the country.
as part of the certification on the basis of four military units, tests of the rating system for evaluating officers are carried out.
the document discloses the meaning of basic concepts, defines the principles, goals and objectives of state regulation of public relations in the field of informatization.
as a rule, during archaeological excavations there are only small fragments of fashionable uniforms that do not reveal the secrets of masters of the early world.
After completion of construction work, all these apartments will be transferred to orphans.
In total, more than 800 youth events were organized during the reporting period, reaching 110,000 people.
The training is conducted under the guidance of experienced instructors of the Directorate of the Commander of the Air Force of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the main directions of the pasta policy of the EU member states for 2015-2016 were discussed.
The interlocutors exchanged views on the past summit on countering violent extremism.
however, statistical reports of this industry, economic books in the districts were not carried out at the proper level.
The head of state noted that in today's economic conditions, agricultural processing is the primary sector of the economy.
centralization of the procedure for selection of first-time civil servants by increasing the role of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan in public service and anti-corruption.
This measure is being implemented within the framework of the implementation of the interstate program of innovative cooperation of the CIS member countries until 2020.
On April 10, the official closing ceremony of the festival took place, during which the winners of the III Republican Festival of Ethnic Theaters were awarded.
differentiated tariffs have been introduced to address the issues of economic consumption of electricity and water in the region.
Given that rent compensation would cease unreasonably and was untrue.
the parties expressed satisfaction with the level of cooperation achieved.
The meeting was attended by heads of departments and heads of large enterprises.
added a search system in which you can find any keyword information of interest.
Governor of the region K. Usherbayev met with heads of a number of foreign companies working in the field of alternative energy, took part in the ceremony of starting the construction of a solar power plant.
According to the authors of the project, the main goal of filming anime is to introduce the younger generation to the work of the great poet and form in them feelings of pride and respect for Kazakh culture and literature, the report said.
development of the installation on dirt strips will expand the possibilities of using military transport aviation of the RK OJSC for the delivery of troops and cargo.
the bird's head faces to the right, the nose is large, the wings are open and directed downward.
The head of state has more serious ideas to prevent hype, provocations of various purposes between countries, indicating that the economic crisis will end sooner or later.	according to s.imangaliyeva , our unity and solidarity with which we have met the start of the year of the assembly are more important than ever in this difficult time .	0,43
The main source of funding for education and health care is the budget.	28 schools for 12,276 seats commissioned in south kazakhstan region this year , according to the regional department of statistics .	0,43
It is worth noting that entrepreneurs received answers from industry specialists invited to specific events.	start-up entrepreneurs had a lot of questions and received answers from representatives of the department of business , trade and tourism area , representatives of the fund  damu " also were invited to the event .
Knowing the history of the 72nd Division, we turned to the local authorities and museum workers with a request to make a copy of their battle flag.
Parties stressed the need to mobilize forces to take appropriate measures to prevent risks in the context of globalization.
- Now, according to the executive director of the company valdis bisters, the implementation of the project will begin in May and will end in the fall.
This year, 411 km of roads of republican and regional significance will be repaired.
representatives of financial institutions should take into account the specificities of the region when working with rural regions.
The main result of the work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan can be called peace and harmony in the country.	the most important result of the assembly 's activity is a peace , unity , friendship and accord .	0,43
We guarantee that all of us are environmentally friendly, - said N. Nazarbayev.
But since in any case the task was set to deliver ammunition to the back bank of the Volga River, it was decided to release cars without a driver.
the mining and metallurgical enterprise did not leave anyone without work, there will also be no impairment of tenge.
The head of the department noted that the police colonel makhambet abisats, commenting on the criminal situation, achieved positive dynamics in its recovery.
As a result, the parties came to the conclusion that it is necessary to combine the knowledge and experience of the two countries to combat the above threats.
and tasmagambetov during the meeting reported to the head of state on the current activities of the ministry and tasks for the next year, the report said.
The meeting was held at the training and material base of the 2015 military unit under the leadership of the deputy commander (weaving), the head of the department of the colonel of free zhumagaliyev in 65229, the Ministry of Defense said.
Thus, representatives of the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship noted that this document is aimed at applying special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries.
The head of the city recalled unsanitary conditions in retail outlets.
According to the head of the national company, at present all projects have received financial support from the government and the National Fund, international financial institutions have begun to allocate funds.
he noted that Kazakhstan's experience in establishing a national wealth fund deserved detailed and in-depth study.
Today, the assembly has become a striking example of continuity, in which the youth wing proposed opening friendship clubs in each educational institution.
currently Kazakhstan has concluded 16 bilateral agreements with European countries, 14 with Asian countries, and we are not limited to this only. the united states takes a special place among our partners .
the importance of the removal of heavy equipment from the territory of the conflict.
The implementation of measures to modernize national electric networks began in 2010 and will be completed in 2016.
Alimzhanovites respect the traditions of their family from generation to generation.
since the activities of private detectives affect the rights and freedoms of citizens, the bill proposes to introduce licensing of private detective activities.
Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov instructed not to forget about virtual connections with the population.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War who did not participate in this event, commanders of units of the Semipalatinsk garrison handed jubilee medals home.
During the meeting, issues of transit transport development between the two countries were discussed.
Thus, about 270 million accidents are recorded annually in the world, of which about 160 million occupational diseases and about 2 million lives.
In addition, we carry out sectoral monitoring of the need for business personnel to form a targeted state order for the training of specialists in technical and vocational education.
achievements of the judiciary in the fight against corruption.
For the period of operation of the e-licensing system, all licenses, permits and notifications subject to automation are automated, the company said.
A. Zambrano called on Kazakh deputies to come as observers to the parliamentary elections in Venezuela this year.
in peacetime, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev demonstrated to the whole world that Kazakhs are Kazakhs.
We believe that the initiative to hold early presidential elections, supporting the Kazakh Assembly of People, is the right decision that meets the interests of our country and people. in our opinion the initiative to hold early presidential elections is the most correct decision that meets the interests of the country and the people .
In turn, this prompted the residents of the country to treat corruption actions differently. "
The company fully uses all modern devices in the production of products.
and to ensure the sustainability of employer enterprises and to avoid a reduction in the number of employees or staff.
Increased cooperation with national and national donors and implementation of the first pilot projects.
in addition, a railway line from the ersai station will be built.
We are glad that our company was at the center of such a large-scale affair, "he said.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan k.masimov, Russia - d.medvedev, Kyrgyzstan - d.Otorbaev, Tajikistan - k.rasulzade, First Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Rustam Azimov and Prime Minister of China take part in the council meeting.
In addition, in the Sayaly microdistrict, in order to support single mothers and regular parents, for the first time in five days, a kindergarten with 320 seats was opened around the clock and special groups of "houses of hope."
the proposed rule will allow participants in civil relations to restore violated rights under undisputed requirements without visiting the judicial authorities.
The opening of domestic production of foams will provide the domestic market necessary for fire fighting and supply products to neighboring states.
Deputy Head of the Secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Leonid Prokopenko spoke at the event.
"Unity and harmony, solidarity, fulfilled the dream of our ancestors" eternal country, "presented the renewal of the" bright path - the path to the future, "" said the deputy head of the Nurken region.
for example, the great dzhambulat dzhabaev "My Leningrad fields!" ".
The mobile PSC of the Kostanay region 584 times traveled to remote areas and issued more than 17 thousand documents.
Priority funding for primary health care (bmc).
Given that the number of veterans of the bloodiest wars in the world is declining every day, citizens-entrepreneurs solve their real domestic problems.
On the site kdb www.kdb.kz you can get acquainted with the full list of car models.
Allows the parties to the treaty to implement a unified, coordinated policy to counter illegal migration with full respect for sovereignty, thereby providing additional opportunities to control and reduce its level and associated risks.
The Governor instructed to ensure the quality and timely completion of the facility by the Crimean Kusherbayev.
the analysis conducted since the beginning of the action revealed the interest of entrepreneurs and individuals, private enterprise, the use of pos-terminals, the rules for the use of special tax regimes, legalization, electronic reporting of invoices related to tax inspections, bringing to administrative responsibility, countering corruption and other issues, such as challenging the actions of officials, the report said. the analysis showed that entrepreneurs and individuals are primarily interested in : registry of business ; the use of cash register machine and the pos-terminals ; application of special tax regimes ; legalization ; electronic invoices ; tax audits ; administrative responsibility ; fighting corruption and appeal actions ( inaction ) ; officials ; licensing issues and the process of " account of taxpayer " and so on , " - the statement reads .
South Kazakhstan region, which has become one of the powerful industrial centers in Kazakhstan, occupies a leading position in the republic.
In the framework of international cooperation between Muslims, representatives of the Ministry of the Samara Region annually take part in the fair.
first of all, on the basis of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and experience in implementing the program of industrial-innovative development and support of small and medium-sized businesses.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, the agreements reached by the Governor's Office and the city chamber of entrepreneurs in connection with the joint work will make a great contribution to the development of entrepreneurship.
but so far this is only an assumption.
The disciplinary monitoring system should be based solely on monitoring the achievement of target indicators.
and these powerful combat vehicles are led by experienced pilots, who are annually replenished by graduates of the military institute of the Air Defense Forces named after the twice Hero of the Soviet Union talgat bigeldinov.
now the company is undergoing reconstruction.
During this period, the special purpose group received several points from the Chinese team for the second shooting.
Olympic champion in cycling Alexander vinokurs started.
provides for the fulfillment of a number of practical tasks of a three-day anti-terrorist exercise.
In memory of the past, veterans listened to the song, taking tears to their eyes.
That is, an assessment of the perception of corruption is carried out both among the population and among entrepreneurs.
Akmola region carries out round-the-clock monitoring of water level in reservoirs.
Another document, supported today by deputies, is aimed at improving the effectiveness of joint actions to transfer citizens on the criminal wanted list and evading criminal liability in Kazakhstan and Hungary, as well as at resolving relations between the competent authorities of the two countries on this issue.
these are our main historical achievements, on the basis of which national unity is preserved.
At the same time, Caspian Contractor and Caspian offshore & marine construction llp managed, "the Governor's office added.
When issuing an act on the selection of a land plot for the construction of objects, the land code introduces norms for transferring existing engineering communications outside the granted land plot.
the vast majority of authors of the work are young people aged 18 to 29 years.
During the conversation with the Deputy Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies of the Chechen Parliament, the parties noted the stability of Kazakh-Czech inter-parliamentary relations and the frequency of visits of representatives of the parliamentary delegations of the two countries, as well as discussed the preparation of the visit of members of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a great share of 1 million 200 thousand Kazakhstanis was noted, who more than half did not return from the front of the battle.
Eight choral groups and dance ensembles were held in the regional friendship house with the support of the republican public association of veterans and the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan, the Department of Internal Policy reported.
More than 1000 permanent jobs have been created.
in this case, as a rule, religious intolerance and radical actions are intensified in the most developed states.
Kazakh people have long known that sheep farming is the beginning of prosperity.
verification of the validity of signatures is carried out before identifying reliable signatures in the amount necessary for the presidential candidate.
In this regard, although preparatory work in the region is under control, specialists pay special attention to some regions.
According to the calculations of the akim of the Yesil district of the muratbek abishev, work is being carried out in the region to prevent corruption.
The employment center also noted that 4 jobs will be created for the repair of the club in the village of karatau.
The bill also includes participation in youth advisory bodies.
Today Akmola region has 11 business support centers.
But in connection with the moratorium, the issue of assigning this name will be resolved in the near future.
At the same time, as the Vice Minister noted, the Kazakh oil and gas industry is a driver of potential growth.
summing up, akim once again noted the importance of the goals set.
Ms. Pickering also expressed a desire to take part in the process of monitoring the upcoming elections.
D. Rodriguez also praised the trade and investment opportunities of Kazakhstan in the framework of the upcoming accession to the WTO and the eurozone.
The number of crimes committed in a state of alcohol and drug intoxication also decreased by 4.3%, crimes committed by minors - by 16.9%, crimes on the streets - by 10.5%, repeated crimes - by 7.2%.
and today's business forum is of mutual interest between the business communities of the two countries.
In the future, it is planned to bring the breeding stock of cattle of the complex to 1200 heads.
In his speech, the head of state noted that the Zhambyl region today has become the cradle of friendship and good-neighborliness of more than 80 ethnic groups.
Also, the elected representatives will accept a number of new bills that have been submitted to the chamber.
As they reported on the exploits of our fellow countrymen, in the battles for Moscow, Stalingrad, the Kursk Bulge and others, 66 Akmolinians became heroes of the Soviet Union, including 13 people became full holders of the Order of Glory.
a lot of work has been done to optimize the work of the government of Kazakhstan and state fragile sectors and save budget funds, the deputy noted.
In turn, the deputy of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the coordinator of the delegation of the CIS countries, the Irshat Fakhritdinov thanked the Kazakh parliament for its active participation in the action, noting that in the "memory relay" held in the capital, Kazakhstani youth witnessed a patriotic, ambitious spirit.
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted the need to strengthen awareness-raising work on the promotion of family values.
Thus, another big problem of domestic production has been solved.
After that, the akim of the region has already laid flowers at the monument.
6 teams from children's and youth sports schools and football clubs of the capital fought for the main prize.
the process of transition to electronic document management does not require additional funds, but funds are needed to provide medical organizations with computer technology.
the capital is growing, respectively, and consumption is growing.
Representatives of France, Canada, Belgium, England, Russia, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan.
During the tour, awareness-raising will be carried out on cultural and leisure issues of remote areas of the region.
the Kazakh khanate is connected not only with one nation, but also with all nationalities living in our country, "said B. Saparbayev.
There are no paratroopers refusing to jump with a parachute.
The head of the Center for Translation and Teaching of the State Language of the Academy of Public Administration, Professor N. Tulenbergenova, in her report presented the results of the ongoing monitoring work on teaching the Kazakh language and spoke about systemic problematic issues of teaching the state language.
this plan is aimed at mutually beneficial organization of production, education and science.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, one of the main indicators of the quality of medical services is the appeal of the population.
in addition, he noted the increase in electoral activity of Almaty residents, including youth, compared to previous elections.
issues of election observation, financial, logistical, organizational and information support for the election campaign were also raised.
using vaccines will reduce the prevalence of many diseases and in some cases even exclude them, "said A. Choi.
Now young families under 35 can apply for the hiring program.
however, with the annual discharge of water, many channels in the south fill water reserves.
As part of the event, each participant was given the opportunity to freely promote their ideas.
At the end of the event, a concert of stars of domestic pop and leading groups of the city was held.
Full promotion of language development.
Deputies of the Majilis also approved a document regarding the ratification of an agreement with Hungary on the extradition of criminals.
According to the order of Akim of Akmola region, the spring month was announced from April 13 to May 23.
we still have positive dynamics in the development of the main industries.	according to the regional administration main sectors of the economy are smooth-running .	0,44
over the years, you have restored the vertical of power in Russia, thanks to which today it has become a completely different country.	since that time you have restored the vertical power structure in russia due to which it has undergone striking changes .	0,44
as a result of early detection of cancer, mortality rates from malignant neoplasms are declining in the country.	thus , as a result of early detection the dath-rate from malignant tumors tends to decrease .	0,44
The head of state congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the spring holiday - March.	addressing to the audience , the president has congratulated all kazakhstani people on the onset of spring holiday nauryz .	0,44
Statistics for January-March showed an increase in macroeconomic indicators of the region.	statistical data for january-march shows an increase of macroeconomic indicators .	0,44
Canadians will be able to manage Kazakhstani clinics only if the results of medical organizations improve.	foreign investors will be entrusted with management of our health facilities only provided that they prove their capability to improve their performance .	0,44
Cultural property deposited by individuals is the main source of the formation of the museum fund.	the cultural values are one of the most important sources of acquisition of museum collections .	0,44
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, which will be celebrated, will also be a great work.	next year we will celebrate the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .	0,44
From July 1, 2017, the basic pension will be established depending on the length of service of labor insurance, i.e., if a person has 10 years of experience, the basic pension will be established within 50% of the subsistence minimum, "the Vice Minister said.
these consultations are necessarily supported in the implementation of strategic plans and programmes.
In 2009, after the re-registration of the law, the center was registered with the capital.
The online resource will allow domestic employers and graduates of the Future program to expand their professional opportunities in the placement of motives, theses, searching for vacancies in the field of interest, obtaining up-to-date information on employment opportunities in the Kazakh labor market.
According to the chairman of the committee, today it is much more effective to fine for the destruction of products that do not meet the relevant requirements.
The main event of the holiday was an exhibition of products of masters and lovers, which was held in the exhibition halls of the Nevzorovs Museum.
often due to low legal literacy, citizens become victims of a corrupt official.
as part of a public-private partnership, a skating stadium has been reconstructed in Kostanay.
Representatives of ethnocultural associations of the district friendship house took part in the round table in the teleconference mode.
an observer of the public commission will sit at each station.
The document on the executive protocol on the ratification and implementation of the Kazakh-Belarusian intergovernmental agreement on readmission provides for effective mechanisms for the identification and return to their country of citizens who do not fulfill and have stopped fulfilling the requirements for entry into the country's territory in the territory of mutually agreed states.
Rafael dautbaev expressed his position as a teacher of professional history "messages of President Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan."
According to the head of the regional department of passenger transport and roads Yerzhan Zhasybayev, the specially created commission since February of this year has checked 9 bus stations of the region and the bus station of Kapchagay for compliance with the requirements of national standards.
recently appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Czech Republic to the Republic of Kazakhstan, Zhigova declared the investment attractiveness of eastern Kazakhstan, the importance of strengthening the partnership between the two countries.
The head of the region, giving a short speech, spoke about the importance and tasks of the new economic policy "nұrly Zhol."
One of the main areas of prosecutorial activity is the supervision of the legality of acts adopted by state bodies.
Zhadilov spoke about the progress of creating an innovative cluster in the field of resource saving in Almaty.
In addition, practical skills should be developed in education, "said A. Batalaev.
since the beginning of its implementation, the growth rate of the manufacturing industry has exceeded the growth of the commodity sector of the economy.
in particular, the systematic research work carried out by cadets is one of the main directions in the activities of teachers of the Department of Humanities akk ai.
At a solemn event, the director of the Department of State Language and Information of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, diamond sadubaev, noted that holding such competitions among police officers strengthens the reputation of employees who faithfully perform official duties, increases the status of the police profession and contributes to strengthening family relations in the police family.
Conducting training courses on further training for authors and experts of educational publications.
The system is being introduced for the first time in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, today we welcome the international action "Relay of Memory" of the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly.
trends in international mathematics and science study - an assessment of the quality of mathematical and natural science education of students in grades 4 and 8.
The theme of the songs at the festival covered all memorable dates.
however, this award did not go to its owner.
The round table was attended by representatives of departments and ministries of Kazakhstan, members of the akimat of South Kazakhstan region, representatives of industry associations and organizations, members of NGOs.
Ekb financed a bus fleet in Kyzylorda, equipment and an easel plant of Zhanros Drilling LLP.
providing certain categories of participants in foreign economic activity with the opportunity to produce goods before legalization of their goods.
sown areas of grain crops increased by 27 thousand hectares or 4.8%%.
representatives of territorial election commissions shared their experience in various areas of activity, exchanged views on the discussed topics at the seminar-meeting.
The Russian group stand, which will take part in the kazatomexpo-2015 exhibition, will be presented in a wide format of the complete list of equipment and developments for the nuclear industry.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, thanks to state support, 425 million tenge of investments were attracted in the modernization of the enterprise.
It is planned to export 901% of products, which will increase the volume of exports of the region and reduce imported products.
According to the head of state, professionalism is appreciated in any profession, so you need to be able to convey to this height, master your whole life.
The Minister also recalled that Kazakhstan has been a member of the world intellectual property organization since 1993.
Representatives of Confederation of single combats and power sports and federation of judo, the silver prize-winner of Olympic games on judo askhat of residents will take part in the briefing.
In addition, the head of state got acquainted with high-tech projects developed by university teachers and students in a Nuris technology park.
this is a symbol of the peaceful life of the glorious heroes of the Great Patriotic War, and an alley of gratitude and respect shown to them by the military personnel who today guard the tranquility of our Motherland, as well as the glorious exploits of their ancestors to subsequent generations.
To date, this company is focused on domestic producers in the consumption of goods and services.
the increase in the number of cancer patients is due to an increase in the incidence of cancer.	according to operative data , the death toll amounted 94.0 per 100 thousand people ( 99.49 in 2013 ) nurgazieyev said .	0,45
To win, each team must successfully pass all three stages of the competition.	in order to win they need to successfully complete each of the three stages of the competition .	0,45
Since its foundation, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has come a long way, having accumulated huge unifying and intellectual potential and adapting to the model of the institution of people's diplomacy.	the assembly of people of kazakhstan ( apk ) is a national political body in kazakhstan established 20 years ago on the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev .	0,45
I think that all the decisions taken will make it possible to intensify the further activities of the organization in priority areas.
grace - unity, within the country - good life. "
where the goal is to provide air defense forces with qualified commanders and specialists.
Within the framework of the Program for the Development of Urban and Mono-Urban Agglomerations in 2014 in the city of Zhanaozen and in order to increase the scale of cities and settlements, a solemn ceremony of opening a fire station for 6 exits of MP ns and Akjk of the Mangistau region was held.
Recall that in the capital from May 7 to 9, more than 50 events are planned.
Nadezhda Stepanovna participated in the military conflict as part of the 51st Guards Division of the Baltic Fleet with the rank of lieutenant in the post of sanitary battalion.
These funds will be used to complete the overhaul of educational facilities and strengthen the material and technical base of newly introduced schools.
now it is not necessary to carry out the PSC and wait for the decision of the justice authorities.
they do not deliver to the bidon, the point should not take milk.
construction of an Olympic town with large facilities.
Therefore, if we pursue this policy, Kazakhstan will be even better in the future, and the situation of the people will be even greater.
He recalled that the emirate has extensive experience in conducting significant international events.
I believe that Kazakhstanis consider it necessary to hold elections in order to concentrate on the implementation of these programs.	in my opinion the kazakhstani people deem it wise to hold elections in order to concentrate on long-term program 's realization .	0,45
It is also known that currently citizens of Kazakhstan can stay in Kazakhstan for up to 15 days without a visa.	especially , the kazakh diplomat drew attention to the country 's favorable investment climate , political stability and long-term vision for sustainable development in the country .	0,45
they applauded with a bright and talented performance of young talent.	bright and talented young talent performance the audience was accompanied by thunderous applause .	0,45
In general, as part of the celebration of the anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate by the end of 2015, it is planned to organize more than 100 major events in all regions of the republic.	in total , 100 major events will be held during the celebration of the anniversary of the kazakh khanate until the end of 2015 .	0,45
During the ceremony, the Governor of the Crimean Tatar region congratulated the group of veterans of the city on the 70th anniversary of the victory, and also thanked for peacetime and incomparable exploits presented to future generations.	governor krymbek kusherbayev congratulated urban veterans and thanked them for their courage in war and heroic work in the post-war years .	0,45
Note that according to the CEC for the first time in history, 95.11% of people took part in the elections.	the current presidential election was marked by an unprecedented high voter turnout - 95.11 % .	0,45
The event is held for the 11th time in the region.	regional chess and checkers tournament is held for the eleventh time .	0,45
In turn, the military parade demonstrated the defense ability and power of our country.	the mayor stressed the importance of historical and patriotic mission defenders of the fatherland .	0,45
in addition, in terms of waste management of the document, measures are provided to stimulate the processing of waste and the reuse of useful materials.	in addition , the document on waste management encourages the introduction of separate collection of waste from the manufacturer , the transition to widespread use of recycling and reuse of useful materials from waste , and prevent their irrevocable burial .	0,45
in addition, the main project supports the requirements for the implementation of assessment and support of the quality management system of medical devices based on direct risks of their use.	however , the working group approved the scheme of registration of medical devices and draft rules of registration and examination of medical devices .	0,45
the pianist of Kazakhstan noted that his performance on this stage was special and vivid for him.	reference : jania aubakirova is the laureate of international competitions .	0,45
Symphony Orchestra of the Regional Philharmonic named after I. Baizakov visited tours in the cities of Germany and Turkey.	the monuments to batyr bayan and zhusupbek aymauytov are established in the regional center due to extrabudgetary funds .	0,45
Participants noted the importance of such activities.	also the exhibition included the city speaking students who read their poems on the theme of anti-corruption .	0,45
at a competition in which the knowledge of two students was evaluated, she covered the distance and won a gold medal.	this contest is full-time comprehensive educational program , a form of networking of educational institutions , students , teachers and scientists .	0,45
The site is automatically updated every 5-10 minutes.	in addition , the earthquakes also can be predicted with the help of the data received from the weather station .	0,45
many exhibits are presented to the public for the first time.	it should be noted that many of the exhibits will be presented to a wide audience for the first time .	0,45
our goal is to expand the list of vacancies and the database, to employ the unemployed for specific enterprises in specialties.
During the event, the head of the Department of Public Service and Anti-Corruption of the region made a welcoming speech and introduced the measures taken by the department staff.
During subsequent election campaigns, the townspeople showed activity and cohesion.
Through participation in various state programs, 5 buildings were opened during this time, new installations were installed.
The Secretary of the CEC noted that from seven o'clock in the morning on April 26, 2015, presidential elections are held at 9 thousand 741 polling stations.
Cooperation of development institutions of Kazakhstan and Poland will facilitate training of specialists and exchange of great experience.
The trade unions of the armed forces of Kazakhstan make up 12.5 thousand people.
The best 6 athletes and 8 coaches were awarded diplomas of the akim of the region, they were given money in the amount of 150 thousand tenge.
The head of the Nұr Otan faction, D. Nazarbayeva, supported the decision, noting that the work was restored and relations between the government and deputies were stable.
We are particularly surprised that our leader pays special attention and congratulates veterans. we always feel the care and attention of the state .
The Chairman noted the importance of the development of people's diplomacy and expressed his readiness to provide comprehensive support for the creation of an association of Kazakh-Vietnamese friendship.
The main goal of the special working group is to study foreign experience necessary for the modernization of the state.
today, this method of ensuring security is most in demand.
Recall that charity events and public events will be held in the East Kazakhstan region in honor of the International Day for the Protection of Children.
That is, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan has every right to determine the time of early presidential elections, "the press service of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan said.
ministers increase their responsibility and deprive paper products, "the head of state said.
it was therefore important that the development process in Kazakhstan should be the same in all regions.
most of the bibords were posted in the most populous diamond city and the region and the Mangistau region.
sniper training was previously carried out in military units, "the Ministry of Defense said.
aa. In honor of the 100th anniversary of the Bekmakhanov, on behalf of the White Way party, students were awarded diplomas.
In addition, the decision of the EEC board will clarify the principles of foreign economic activity of the Eurasian Economic Commission for the distribution of the aluminum radiator, LED lamp and a single product range of hoses necessary for welding.
fairs and concerts were organized, the elections were held in a national festive mood.
As reported, the conference is attended by professors and researchers of the Academy of Public Administration, the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the wounded were taken out of the front-line zone, we did everything and treated, fed, delivered to the rear, "recalls the panathaevna pinelope.
the knowledge gained as part of the lesson will help officers establish scientific and intercultural relations with foreign colleagues.
this is 5% more than in 2005.
Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Massimov and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban signed a memorandum of understanding on the creation of the Kazakh-Hungarian strategic council.
synchronous action will be held simultaneously in all cities and districts of the region.
In addition, scientists shared research work on the creation of the Kazakh Khanate, the report said.
they depict a ceremony of exchanging diplomatic gifts by Chinese emperors with representatives of various states.
More than 300 billion tenge is provided for the volume of services of enterprises of the region signed and planned for signing within the circle of increasing local content.
In this regard, the number of drugs and various drugs is increasing, and medical equipment is being updated.
During the lectures, video materials about kha, book exhibitions will be used, "the report said.
He noted that from 2015 to 2020, the transition to 12-year education will be carried out.
Speaking about the document, Minister of National Economy Y. Dossayev noted that the basis of the agreement is Armenia's accession to agreements aimed at creating conditions for ensuring four freedoms: goods, capital, services and the free movement of labor.
In addition, large-scale activities will continue to expand the marketing of domestic food products, develop a culture of food consumption and technical regulation in the food industry, improve trade regulation of exports/imports, and provide skilled personnel.
By the end of 2015, Kaspiymunaigas LLP plans to start providing commercial services at the international level.
today we have enough that guarantees our power and security to withstand any threat. like good hosts , we have created a margin of safety , and we have an " airbag . "
1) the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan received the powers and services of budget planning of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the year, the number of farm animals increased.	the livestock of farm animals increased .	0,45
It is noted that today the farm is run by more than 400 cattle.	shops sell the capital daily more than 4 tons of dairy products sector .	0,45
the whole process is open, everything is visible who took what for.	everything will be open and you can see everything .	0,45
the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will strengthen direct inter-corporate ties of enterprises in the region.	the eaeu establishment just strengthens direct links between enterprises of the regions .	0,45
One of the main is the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is one of the highlights .	0,45
the end of the event "(Zhambyl region).
taking into account the special value of the symbols, these flags will be used at the final rehearsals and on the day of the particular parade.
the parties also considered the progress of exploration in Aktobe region.
He warmly recalled his meetings with the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A.Nazarbayev, highly appreciated the huge contribution of the head of state to the formation and development of our state, paying attention to the fact that he is looking forward to a visit to Doha with a request to convey greetings and warm wishes to the head of state, "the statement said.
Developing a strategy for the development of the financial centre in line with the specialization of capital market services and Islamic finance.
Today, preschool education and education is an important issue on the agenda.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the institute of the assembly is located on the 1st floor of the amu.
modernized parts have currency cash registers for receiving and transferring.
all construction facilities meet technical requirements and should not adversely affect the architecture of the city.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that Mr. Prokop, awarded the Order of the Motherland, worked in the agricultural sector for more than forty years, devoted almost thirty years to only one enterprise.
great Kazakh poet, fellow countryman M. Zhumabaev.
housing commissioning reached 161.7 thousand square meters or increased by 48.2%.
according to the youth practice plan, instead of 975 people, unemployed youth are sent, having graduated from 1,165 specific educational institutions (119.5% of the annual plan).
On January 10 this year in Severodonetsk Kazakhstan humanitarian aid was transferred to the Ukrainian side in the form of food worth 70 million tenge.
the best reports were awarded diplomas, letters of thanks were sent to the rectors of universities.
Sheikh Hamdan confirmed the participation of the Emirati side in the Kazakhstan exhibition at the highest level.
The purpose of the event is to expand the knowledge of students on the new political process of Kazakhstan until 2050, Kazakhstan patriotism, the formation of citizenship and responsibility.
if you do your job qualitatively and fully use the available equipment, you will make a great contribution to improving the health of the population.
The event was attended by deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Vice Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of central state bodies and public figures of Kazakhstan.
The Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as a creative force of society, influences the implementation of State policy in the field of social and labor relations, carries out multifaceted work to organize the protection of the social and economic rights of employees and participates in the socio-political life of the country as a member of a national coalition of democratic forces.
the lower limit can be reduced from 300 thousand to two times.
this is the first international exhibition in the CIS and Central Asia.
Having familiarized himself with the unfinished object near the Abay House-Museum, the head of the region said that the state would support the completion of construction work.
In this surprise, delighted, the White Guard expressed his gratitude and blessed.
this is 61.4% of the total number of cattle in the country.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, the most effective way to ensure security is the close economic connection of states.
10193 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 1206387 square meters were commissioned due to all sources of financing, which is 9.6% higher than in 2013.
so we should do Taldykorgan.
the Majilismen will set deadlines for the preparation of an opinion on draft laws relating to the ratification of extradition treaties with Bulgaria and Romania, as well as an agreement on the extradition of convicted persons with Romania.
During the walk, its participants visited a number of regions of Kokshetau associated with the Great Patriotic War.
The head of state, addressing the public of the city and youth, noted that spring cannot be bright.
the Constitution was a unique instrument guaranteeing the right.	secondly , the constitution stipulates that kazakhstan is a democratic , secular , legal and social state .	0,45
Before its staging, teachers of theater educational institutions of St. Petersburg held master classes for artists.	that is why the memories of the war , the military songs and poems performed by the combined creative team didn 't leave the visitors of the theater indifferent .	0,45
since then it has been held at solemn military-patriotic events in the capital.	and the copy of the battle flag of the 72nd guard rifle division was given for the national guard brigade 's permanent storage .	0,45
similar exercises with the participation of Kazakh and Chinese crews will be held in India.	such exercises involving the crews of the two countries will be held in india too .	0,45
in the nur aktobe microdistrict, four residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 64.78 thousand square meters. m, provided with comfortable housing 726 families.
this model of juvenile courts complies with the requirements of fair arbitration by the United Nations for children with special relationships with all children in contact with the judicial service.
according to him, at the events dedicated to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, special attention will be paid to the regions.
this document is available to all CIS countries.
however, of course, scientific achievements play a decisive role.
According to the head of state, the country has begun its work in this area.
parliamentarians have a great task aimed at legislating for reforms in the country.
stressed the importance of holding early presidential elections and in the current political circumstances in the world.
Thus, in our domestic market, the increased volume of gas is excessive, that is, we produce products in excess of gas of our own consumption.
At the opening ceremony of the monument, Akim Akmola s.v. kulagin and granddaughter of the batyr m.abatpena.
The business declaration is aimed at expanding business ties and attracting Canadian investments in the economy of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the head of state voiced the idea of ​ ​ creating the Eurasian Economic Union 20 years ago at a lecture at Moscow State University.
during the visit to London, the meeting of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbayev with the Director of the UK Office for Combating Fraudulent Crimes David Green took place.
The Olympiad was attended by students of fifteen other nationalities studying in various specialties.
the implementation of the agreement and the executive protocol will improve illegal migration cooperation between the agreed parties, conduct effective processes that safely determine the return of persons, identify cases such as failure to fulfill obligations in accordance with certain procedures after migration, the committee said.
it is worth noting that there is also a lot of demand for cheeses.
The conference is organized by the international educational center educouncil.
in general, the land port will become an important component of the country's transport and logistics system.
the second part tells the memories of the river. Egizbaev, his post-war life and his life since 1947.
The main activity is considered to be the production of an alternative energy carrier.
his main idea is the productions of domestic authors.
veteran handed over the keys to housing to elderly people akim of temirbek city kassymzhanov.
According to information, every day the relay participants run out of the monument to the defenders of their region and run to the neighboring area.
there is also retraining and advanced training of personnel for opening industries in the field of chemical production.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the month he visited remote districts of Karaganda region, where he provided medical assistance to the population of the highest category.
The bill provides for the creation of a navigation center in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea.	the mp said that the issue of creation of the navigation center is supported by the government .	0,45
According to him, the idea of ​ ​ the work came during the celebration of the March holiday.	renata shifted her feelings on canvas .	0,45
The head of the region noted the specifics of the holiday and noted that March begins with the bowels of the centuries.	governor of akmola region sergey kulagin has congratulated everybody on  nauryz " holiday .
As noted in the national company, the railway transport council plays a key role in developing ways to ensure the general safety of trains.
a medical institution with appropriate professional staff, high-quality equipment, all necessary sections of the functional building meets all modern requirements, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the conference participants will discuss the cooperation of all educational institutions, the dual education system, certification of modular curricula and specialists, and the introduction of innovative technologies.
a plant for the production of chlorine and caustic soda was built in 2008-2010.
On this document, 20 meetings of the working group were held with the participation of deputies, representatives of the highest court, the Prosecutor General's Office, the national bank, the Ministry of Justice, interested State bodies and non-governmental organizations.
President of the Union of Architects of the Republic of Kazakhstan Akmyrza Rustembekov delivered a welcoming speech at the exhibition and presented diplomas to construction managers.
in addition, the head of state noted the importance of education for young people.
The Chairman of the Board noted that cooperation between the Union and Mongolia is important and effective for both countries.
the functions of the financial recovery operator are performed by a subsidiary of Kazagro Holding - Kazagromarketing.
its main purpose is to prevent traffic accidents and coordinate the movement of the ship through the ship traffic control system.
this process leaves much to be desired.
Speaking at the opening of the event, acting director of the library M. Kasymbekov noted that the beginning of the presidential library is an important event for the public life of Kazakhstan.
In addition, newly arrived soldiers will undergo psychological testing.
also the authors of the project plan to make a full-length cartoon.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, representatives of the Zhanibek region met guests on Kazakh customs, on customs, greeting them with greetings.
The company's branches in 27 cities of the republic employ 5847 people.
this is a tradition that has continued since Turkic times.
He is the author of about 200 scientific reports and scientific and educational articles, as well as two monographs, one textbook, six textbooks, two teaching guidelines.
In turn, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan - Commissioner of the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 Rapil Zhoshybayev expressed confidence that Tajikistan will take an active part in the exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
this trend followed the procedure laid down in the Constitution.
The meeting was attended by heads of Kazakh specialized research institutes and experts of non-governmental organizations.
military personnel improved knowledge of combat, infantry, rear, equipment, topography, reconnaissance, fire training, as well as communications, operational management, state legal training, psychology and other subjects.
e.Dyrissov urged his colleague to use Kazakhstan as a springboard to find ways to the Eurasian Economic Union and the Central Asian market.
two stages are over, the third is a very important stage, a period of advocacy.
therefore, a "code of honor" of military personnel was developed.
after a one-year internship, the judge passes a one-year probationary period.
May every city receive joy, happiness, good hopes on the day of the Great Victory.
According to the participants of the meeting, inter-parliamentary cooperation is an important component of the partnership between the two countries.
the photo exhibition was named after a poem from the poem "Bright month at night without wind."
the average score of Kazakhstan students of the fourth grade of timss-2011 in mathematical literacy is 501 and natural science competence is 495 (according to the 1000-point system).
e. dyrys.
Zoya Golubeva decided that she would play with black drafts.
According to pre-made forecasts, trading parties have the right to stimulate the area in which they need to apply protective mechanisms against imports, organize mutual response measures for goods that require special attention.
The plenary session will be attended by akims of cities and districts, heads of regional agricultural departments and representatives of all organizations, institutions involved in grain crops.
Of these, 1 greenhouse with an area of ​ ​ 2.5 hectares was commissioned in 2014.
Erlan made a great contribution to the collection of this collection of karin, as requested by the Mongolian researcher.
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on the further strengthening of traditional active relations with the Ecu and its institutions.
There is a group of art historians with whom we begin gradually Khasangali, "he said.
In conclusion, the Mayor thanked the teachers of Almaty for the quality of education.
The premises necessary for the work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be considered in full.
special communication of the post office receives and transports products.
the most important law defining values.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the holding of elections should accurately comply with the requirements of the Constitution.
as a transnational company, knauf gives world experience in the field of construction technologies.
As for health care, 300 million tenge was allocated for the construction of a children's rehabilitation center for 150 places in Uralsk.
Each 18 participants was given a specific combat mission - the exact touch of a moving target (tank) with two grenades at a distance of 250 meters.	the event brought together 18 participants .	0,46
implementation of state programs, close cooperation with development institutions and banks.	all this , of course , is formed the positive results of the smes of the city .	0,46
members of the board decided to amend the form of the certificate of inclusion in the register of customs carriers.	in addition , the members of the college of the ece decided to amend the form of a certificate of inclusion in the register of customs carriers .	0,46
3 additional facilities.	thus we will need to build an additional three facilities .	0,46
today, in most cases, we traditionally use paper documents as the first source.	nowadays in most cases paper medium is used traditionally as the primary source .	0,46
this affected not only the fronts, but also the youth.	wwii veterans were honored during a solemn meeting in the house of culture .	0,46
also, all the chest was supposed to be full of battle orders.	and there should be a lot of combat orders on the breast .	0,46
the author is a famous writer, playwright, Ramazan, director - Honored Worker of Kazakhstan.	the drama reflects the historical activity of abylaikhan to protect the kazakh people from the jungar invasion .	0,46
stimulating the privatization of state medical organizations, expanding the provision of guaranteed free medical care through non-state organizations.	encouragement of privatization of the public healthcare organizations and extension of the guaranteed healthcare package provided at private healthcare organizations .	0,46
people benefit from SMEs in quality and prices, and new jobs are being created. besides it will harmonize the provisions of related legislation with the provisions of the draft law on ppp .
such measures, together with international financial organizations, would enable the planned tasks to be adequately implemented.
Thus, in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of business entities during joint actions within the framework of the concluded memorandum, the parties identified systemic problems and barriers that negatively affect business development, restored violated rights, eliminated measures of illegal inspections of business entities by regulatory authorities.
On the improvement of cities with growth and Semipalatinsk akim examined the projects and set them the corresponding tasks.
special forces personnel were able to demonstrate their skills not only during the day, but also at night.
winners of the regional competition were determined, awarded with special diplomas.
we must study and prepare the specialists we need in advance.
the implementation of these large-scale programs will not only ensure high-quality socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, but will also contribute to an integrated solution of regional problems, including in the land barriers of five countries of Central Asia, the minister said.
in the house of friendship, an anniversary evening was held dedicated to the 90th anniversary of the birth of the hero of the Soviet Union Makhmed Kairbaev.
this is 2 times more than in 2005-2009.
the film was developed on the basis of documentary documents collected from the Paluan personal archive.
and the ten cars that arrived are a continuation of the good work already begun.
Optimizing the judicial system to facilitate citizens' access to justice.
G. Abdykalikova noted the importance of cultural exchange in the conditions of growing mutual interest of the peoples of the two countries and suggested considering the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements in the field of culture.
standard wage rules for employees of enterprises of the kmg group of companies have been developed.
Because for a beginner entrepreneur, the beginning of his business requires a large amount of funds.
In their reports, these persons noted the further development of the area.
it should be noted that in modern hostilities, unmanned aerial vehicles made a real coup.
In addition, according to him, authorized state bodies and judges imposing administrative fines can simplify the amount of the fine to 30% using the rights granted to them.
A. Aryngazieva noted the active participation of entrepreneurs of the city in the action "My Veteran."
if earlier small and medium-sized entrepreneurs paid the same fines, now fines for small entrepreneurs are reduced by 50% compared to average entrepreneurs, "said Zauresh Baimoldina at a briefing.
our culture is preserved, which is facilitated by representatives of the initiative ethnic group, "he said.
the award ceremony was held by the deputy commander of the airmobile troops for combat training, Colonel Ruslan Leddybayev.
The updated website has also prepared an English version that allows you to familiarize yourself with the activities of the meeting to residents of other countries.
this document was approved by the Department of Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, as well as between the school of the Nur Otan party and the akimat of the Abai district and the city of Kurchatov.
at the meeting, the appointment of members of the commission on behalf of the Senate is considered.
currently, a set of clothing samples is organized.
After this work, new jobs will be created at the plant.
legalization of property is a preparation for the universal declaration of income and property of individuals, which will be held in 2017.
At this moment, volunteers distributed free skin nourishes "and baursacks to wishing residents of the city.
During the subbotnik, it is planned to plant more than 5,000 trees on the territory of the metropolis.
The Minister noted that "with international organizations and partners that support the strengthening of democratic traditions and values ​ ​ in our society, Kazakhstan has still worked constructively, works in the future."
According to K. Zhakupov, the national initiative is supported by the parliamentary corps, since all the forces of society should be aimed at turning the world crisis threats into new opportunities for the development of the country.
During the visit to educational institutions akim of the capital visited vocational college.
Cycle "Topical Issues of Legislative Protection of Consumer Rights."
401.9 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan for transfer purposes this year to implement the set tasks under this state program.
The name of the small gabdullin is written in gold letters in the history of our republic and region.
The Peter and Paul design instructor considers it necessary to pay special attention to issues intended for Beniuc women.
The Union of Judges of Kazakhstan is a full member of the international association of judges, "he said.
work has been established on financing mechanisms: Brzk-2020, Ashkk, Single-Industry Towns Development Program for 2012-2020.
the conversation began with a discussion on the preservation of the world cultural and natural heritage, support for world culture.
On the day of voting in the polling station, it is forbidden to find unauthorized persons who are not related to the election process.
The head of the region noted that graduates of this school need to carefully prepare for test work and wished the students good luck.
their attention was presented with artifacts found in excavations dating from the deep history of the city.
On March 11, 2015, with the support of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana, the Kazka Association of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan and the Astana city administration, a large-scale event will be held - v- "startup forum," the city chamber of entrepreneurs reported.
The organizers of the event with the support of the Governor's Office of the region noted that the market "Zhylysy" and "Ural" uk "ak.
According to Kazagro, during the meeting, representatives of the holding informed World Bank experts about the current situation in agriculture.
It is worth noting that service services are provided to entrepreneurs free of charge.
The meeting discussed the "Anti-Corruption Strategy of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025" and ways of consolidated fight against corruption with the public, East Kazakhstan region reported.
The other day, the first wake park opened, a complex located in the area of ​ ​ the Richos Hotel will replenish the curb complex.
As you can see, what a large-scale work, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
in the South Korean city of Incheon, Kazakhstani athletes performed at the Asian Games.
it is also planned to produce 10-15 megawatts of electricity per hour during the workflow.
as a result of early detection of cancer, mortality rates from malignant neoplasms are declining in the country.	speaking during the briefing mr. nurgaziyev said mortality from malignant tumors tends to decrease .	0,46
According to the results of the seminar, recommendations were made on further improving the mechanisms of the Kazakhstan model for assessing the quality of the work of ships.	it is reported that recommendations to further improve the mechanisms of the kazakh model of assessing the quality of the courts made following the seminar .	0,46
Changes or amendments can be made on corporate tax and income tax and double value added tax, "said O. Perepachov.
addressing the participants of the meeting, the deputy head of government emphasized the need for timely and high-quality execution of the instructions of the head of state and the promotion of employment and stability in society.
representatives of many nationalities live in Akmola region.
B. Saparbayev noted the effective experience of pmxz in cooperation with colleges, where students undergo weekly practice at enterprises.
Measures to protect the rights of children with disabilities.
On legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan the commission received 31,704 applications for legalization of real estate totaling 295.1 billion tenge.
according to the results of the studies, the number of respondents surveyed was 6,878 people.
According to the press service of the CCW, the parties expressed interest in increasing the volume of transit cargo in Kazakhstan connecting the interior of China with European countries transported within the framework of this international corridor.
In turn a.sekeshev noted that Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation with other countries, is interested in implementing the investment policy of the program "Nұrly Zhol."
Seitzhapparov "amangelds," "niyazbaev" railway "makhanbets," "baimakhanov" railway "dilnaz" and "reclamation" "development" to provide loan guarantees, the fund's guarantee and the annual rate on loans can be reduced to 7%, the Development Fund reported.
The collective of railways "ns and akjk" of Kyzylorda region knows about the state of pinelope panatayevna kafatridi.
the authors also noted the results of the implemented programs in the field of modernization of housing and communal services.
There are also specialists in the field of social support.
and during a conversation about the political situation in the country, he noted the importance of the upcoming presidential elections in April.
it is planned to build high-tech roads around diamonds.
the assembly was developed at the initiative of the assembly council in connection with the extraordinary presidential elections.
During the visit, the delegation got acquainted with the work of the leading grain economy in a good district of Akmola region.
cohesive Kazakhstan! " - Kyzylordins were indignant and began to celebrate the holiday.
for each nomination, winners are awarded a special diploma and a cash prize in the amount of 200 thousand tenge.
developing these qualities, he can climb the career ladder.
in total, it was proposed to reduce 267 permits, which is 52% of their total number.
In addition, the Governor noted that the main task is the implementation of priority measures and the construction of objects of socio-cultural significance.
According to Alexei Yakub, the main priority of two-degree education is that most young people, studying in their country, can receive a Russian diploma.
we want our children to become accustomed to elective culture from the very beginning.
in general, the established system provides for the improvement of the provision of public services and the reduction of administrative barriers, the comprehensive development of engineering infrastructure, supervision of compliance with urban planning regulations, the elimination of uninterrupted development of land plots, heating, sewerage, gas, electric systems, land plots and residential buildings, and also allows us to generate data on the structure of small and medium-sized us in one information system.
In a country that has reached great economic heights, the spiritual spheres are currently not neglected.
efficient use of the newly opened river-careful-gugan railway network.
another fruitful industry is tourism.
To assist the victims, 5,500 people and 1,500 units of special equipment were involved.
In addition, this factory plans to expand production and open another workshop.
this is the official opening of the parade.
to do this, we must have literate Moldova.
At the same time, the emir noted the importance of creating an Islamic organization for food security, a timely initiative of the President of Kazakhstan and also noted that in the near future they will join this organization and take part in the upcoming general assembly of the Islamic organization for food security in the capital.
a detachment of patriots from the highest groups among children was created.
After all, a large number of young people and healthy people need such activities.
The honored artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan Galia Baigazinov is entrusted with the task of revealing the female theme in abay verses.
It is noted that as part of this package of applications, subscribers will be able to call mobile operators and directions of the CIS and far abroad by fixed telephone.
They will also be able to take part in seminars and training on the implementation of startup ideas, present their projects to potential investors and entrepreneurs.
Malkezhi Bukenbaev worked for a long time in the internal affairs bodies.
Currently, negotiations are underway with an Iranian partner company regarding the implementation of the project.
there is no need to begin construction of new facilities.
only those states where internal stability has been maintained are developing, and we are proud of this stability.
representatives of more than 85 nationalities study in universities of the republic.
each thing is of great importance to historical and cultural information that needs to be understood, and we should only be able to understand them.
The cost of the facility throughout the season is 2.5 km of asphalt.
in the world, X-ray tubes appeared thanks to the development of small generators.
cultural institutions of districts and cities of the region will share new types of interactive work.
Following the meeting, within the framework of the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol - the way to the future," the parties agreed on the further development of activities for the urgent solution of issues of social life of the population.
the main purpose of the training is to train the personnel of sniper units in training experience, order of conduct of hostilities and disguise in winter conditions.
we came to him, the first is the creation of a professional state autonomous apparatus responsible for economic and state programs, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the decrease in production in crop production is due to a decrease in the gross harvest of cereals.
At the same time, as the head of kaa noted, in the second part of the message to the people "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" a large appeal to youth was noted.
military personnel, like many others, are the pride of the Kazakh army.
The meeting participants discussed an agreement on a methodology for forming an indicative balance of gas, oil and petroleum products within the eurozone, developed by the Department of Energy.
the draft law "on peacekeeping" is proposed to be considered in the first reading with accompanying amendments, and the draft law "On special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries" - in the second reading with accompanying amendments.
the signed memorandum wants a legal basis for transferring cooperation to a qualitatively new level in this matter.
we expect the first product in early December and January.
external factors, although the domestic situation of the country is stable.
According to the people's representative, to date, diplomatic missions are partners of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Recall that work continues on the formation of a CIS observer mission.
in addition, the agreement provides for the prevention of double taxation and is a bilateral international treaty.
The meeting agreed on a map of transit routes of the railway as part of rowing and adopted reports.
an hour of earth. "
the results of 344 competitions were also revised on the basis of the justification provided.
today we got endless pleasure from the dance presented by the ballet troupe "Astana Opera."
sabyrgali kusenovich retired as deputy chief of the fire headquarters.
According to the results of the audit conducted jointly with the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan, the most common violations were the facts of unreasonable provision and non-provision of agricultural subsidies under programs administered by local executive bodies.
In February of this year, the laboratory underwent international registration.
The upcoming parade will be a significant event in the history of the country's armed forces.
And the residents of the regional center on this day showed a bright sign of the unity of the country.
Already, the attractiveness of the EAEU is being talked about on earth, and the number of countries interested in creating a free trade zone with the union has reached 10, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Obviously, all this is achieved as a result of the constructive policy of the head of state.
they are provided with rent and a service dwelling before the house is handed over.
In total, more than 50 scientific articles were received to participate in the international conference.
therefore, the opportunity to conduct a parade march with respected officers is provided only to the best and excellent students of training.
The Secret Mansurov, who opened the meeting of the advisory council, in the ECE agreement clearly outlined the goals and objectives in the direction of energy policy.	according to tair mansurov , the treaty defines goals and objectives in the field of energy policies .	0,47
the depth of oil refining will also increase from 83% to 90%, while ai-92 fuel with high demand will increase from the current 12.0% to 21%, and the growth in ai-95 and ai-98 gasoline will be from 0.7% to 10%, "said Skolnik.
Governor of Bulandynsky district kuandyk spergenov congratulated the veteran on the anniversary, noting that returning from the battlefield, the jacquia, who worked as the chairman of the collective farm, made a great contribution to the development of the collective farm.
According to the press service of the company, as of May 12, 2015, the corporation received 16.2 thousand 1 applications from agricultural producers in the amount of 950 billion tenge.
the mirror was laid by scientists in the II-II centuries BC.
The Governor noted that thanks to the constructive policy of the head of state, large-scale transformations and radical reforms were carried out over the years of independence.
Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov warned about the absence of football pitches in the settlements of the region.
Kazakhstan's unity must now be further strengthened and based on civilian positions.
The more valuable generosity for the Kazakh people, the more valuable for the Ukrainian people is Taras Shevchenko.
According to the representatives of the commission, as of 18-00 o'clock in Kazakhstan, the ballot papers received 89.69% of the total number of citizens included in the voter lists.
head of the region with. Ears, examined store shelves and emphasized food prices.
For 5 years, an industrial infrastructure was built, an investment climate began to form.	the purpose of this program was to stop the de-industrialization of the economy .	0,47
the commander of the Marine Brigade, Lieutenant Colonel of the Guard, Erbolat Tolykbaev, noted that such events will be a good opportunity to show the future defenders of the Fatherland the importance of the activities of the army, patriotic spirit and love for their native country.	as the commander of a brigade of marines of guard lt. col. erbolat tolykbayev noted , such events are good opportunity to show to the future defenders of the motherland the importance of serving in the army , patriotic spirit and love for the native country .	0,47
9 of them will take part in a parade in the capital in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.	military unit 2019 organized an exhibition of photos of the city .	0,47
But we must all come to this together, prove that it is conducting the right activities in risk management, in the field of control over targeted use.	but we must come together to this , we have to prove that cp in terms of risk management in terms of tracking target use is working properly .	0,47
a person who lives in Alma-Ata or who comes to him will never forget about the wonderful mountains and the beautiful climate.	anyone who has ever lived in or visited it , will never forget the beautiful mountains and excellent climate .	0,47
This year it is planned to put into operation 480 thousand square meters of housing.	according to information , region 's economy has involved 40.8 billion tenge of investments .	0,47
construction and maintenance of the railway.	the leasing contract is a contract of a long term lease with a subsequent purchase .	0,47
the region introduced differentiated three-level and respectively two-level tariffs for electricity and water for individuals, depending on their consumption.	the savings from the use of differentiated tariffs for electricity amounted to about 48.6 million tenge .	0,47
the difference in their numbers is observed between the ages of 31 and 35.	the difference begins from 31 to 35 years .	0,47
The veteran of the Second World War was congratulated by the deputy of the city maslikhat and the representative of the defense department.	deputy of the maslikhat a.urikh and representative of the office of defense sh . dyusupova congratulated the veteran .	0,47
at today's meeting, this issue was unanimously approved by a majority vote.	it worth noting the hero of the day ivan kosenkov attended the ceremony .	0,47
Our main task is to introduce security systems at airports that meet international requirements, improve the quality of service to the population, create long-term plans for the development of airport infrastructure, "he said.
During the meeting, 4 meetings were held at which topical issues related to corruption were considered.	according to him , this year the experts did not show any corruption fact .	0,47
Thus, the average figure of citizens included in the lists of voters in the republic is 19.17%.	thus , 19.17 % of the total number of voters has been included in the lists .	0,47
Successful peacekeeping operations contribute to interoperability in the multinational peacekeeping contingent.	coherence of international peacekeeping forces helped to reach the success of the operation during the peacekeeping mission .	0,47
immediately entered the training company of the sniper battalion 204 rifle regiment of Yaroslavl.	then he immediately hit the sniper training company of the battalion of the 204th infantry regiment in yaroslavl .	0,47
entrepreneurship produces broiler chicken, all pieces of chicken and sausage.	the company produces broiler chickens , devilled chickens , dressed chickens , legs , thighs , drumsticks , wings , breast , breasts , soup sets , minced chicken and sausages .	0,47
According to the results of Q1 2015, all measures were taken to ensure employment of more than 2.3 thousand people with disabilities, which amounted to 25.2% of the planned indicators.	in the end of the 1st quarter of 2015 more than 2,300 people with disabilities were provided by all the support measures .	0,47
The draft law was agreed upon in accordance with the established procedure with all state bodies.	also , the bill defines the social protection of the national contingent , rights , duties and responsibilities .	0,47
As the minister noted, the growth of the ruble and wool amounted to 1% and, taking into account the increase in prices for crude oil, oil growth amounted to 1.8%. kazakhstan and china signed a number of agreements concerning the silk road .
at the same time, the senator emphasized that the use of new methods of using the potential of the economy in the field of land relations is of particular importance in solving tasks that are legally and timely regulated.
Despite the difficult state of the economy, we are making active efforts to implement existing projects, launch new projects in geological control.
The main measures of cooperation of the CIS countries aimed at the development of culture 2016-2020 were also approved.
to date, this is the only kind of non-invasive way to eliminate the focus of cancer, that is, the integrity of the skin during medical measures is not violated.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - a symbol of the relay race of 20 good events - within the framework of the Taikazan meeting, many charitable events and work are being carried out to strengthen peace and stability.
he restores and reconstructs the clothes and life of the centuries that remained in the bowels of history.
Compared to January-November 2013, passenger traffic by buses increased by 3.7%.
In this wellness center, school graduates receive in-depth training in four main subjects and the fifth subject of choice.
our people must understand the foundations of Islam correctly.
This process is also one of the steps to implement the institutional reform of the head of state, "he said.
since malignancies are one of the main causes of death and disability.
In his speech, A. Lukin noted that thanks to the heroic exploits of the front-line soldiers, the current generation lives in the open air.
strengthening practical interaction and establishing existing mechanisms to respond to mutual requests for legal assistance from the parties.
a flash mob will be organized on the square in front of the main building with the completion of the assembly launch and a balloon with the kha logo of the year.
the agreement on customs regulation states that customs regulation is carried out within the framework of the EAEU customs code.	this is the first document prepared due to interaction of business communities of kazakhstan , russian and belarus .	0,47
mainly in the country, construction and installation work is carried out on 40 sections with a length of 1300 km.	in total , the country plans to build more than 7,500 kilometers of roads , which will create about 200 thousand jobs .	0,47
the population of Akmola region is 4.2% of the share of the republic.	the proportion of the population of akmola region in the total population of the country is 4.2 % .	0,47
the document is aimed at ensuring the information security of children of international law.
therefore, the idea of ​ ​ creating magnetic gifts depicting each city of Kazakhstan arose.
As part of the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, a meeting of the supreme council provides for the admission of citizens to the board of the commission from the Kyrgyz side, "the statement said.
In addition, the special ambassador spoke about preparatory measures for the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
it contains the bill "On Minimum Social Standards and Guarantees" and "On Peacekeeping" with accompanying amendments, "the report said.
the bill provides for amendments and additions to the civil code, tax code and other mandatory codes.
It will discuss topical issues of development of agro-industrial complex of Kostanay region.
network masking is very clear and convenient for large and small.
This measure will simplify repair and restoration work and closely monitor the operation of operational devices.
These training camps are held on the eve of the combat firing of the unit.
According to him, according to the results of the audit and inventory of agricultural land, 233.7 thousand hectares of unused agricultural land were identified.
he also noted that today it is necessary to purchase goods from the domestic market of the country until it is purchased from foreign countries and spent on its transportation.
he also praised the contribution of Makhmed Kairbaev to the dispute in the region.
The guests of the event were representatives of people's cultural centers and students of a number of educational institutions in the city of Kokshetau.
- the commission should prepare and submit its proposals, "- said in a statement.
According to him, the institutional reforms of the head of state will allow the development of the tourism sector.
Of course, significant reforms are needed in this direction, "he said.
It is planned to complete the processing of the kalamkas-fecal-whitewash pipeline by mid-2015.
According to the Minister, the Government of Kazakhstan decided to join the committee on science in the field of world industrial safety.
As the first state in the region, Kazakhstan, along with members of the European Union, co-chaired the Central Asian initiative of the Program for Adaptation to Eurasian Competition.
the main goal is to prevent an increase in food prices in the region.
However, the next year's budget includes only the construction of a water supply system in the village of Control.
there were places proposed for public works.
all of them are highly qualified doctors.
At the same time, the Ambassador stressed the readiness of the Chairman of the Majilis to further strengthen inter-parliamentary relations.
therefore, entry there was free.
then they are also included in the voter lists at the location of the hostel or university.
In the period from 1890 to 2013, documents were presented at the exhibition testifying to the friendship of representatives of different ethnic groups and the Kazakh people.
Within the framework of the conference, an exhibition of family photographs "simple family" was held, the heroes of the exhibition were families who were helped to feel parental happiness by the specialists of the Ecomed clinic.
During the conference, it was noted that the initiative of Eurasian economic integration has gradually become an important part of everyday life in society as a whole and between business circles.
this will change the current situation, which fixes tariffs using the "cost recovery" method.
The next military ranks were awarded ahead of schedule to more than 20 military personnel.
vaccination of the population is carried out free of charge in accordance with a special national calendar.
animal husbandry, measures to increase state support.
after the conclusion of the agreement, the notary sends the application for electronic registration and all the necessary documents to the appropriate authority.
The participants unanimously approved the possibility of further development of their culture thanks to the institution of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
such unique, archival and pictorial sources were found in Chinese archives, and their exact copies were made at the initiative of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Kazakhstan to China, currently Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council of Kazakhstan N.ermekbayev.
It is worth noting that this cardiac surgery center is the only one in the west of the country.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the agreement was concluded to implement socio-economic obligations.
It is noted that a foreign visit is fully paid by the state and the entrepreneur gets the opportunity to communicate with foreign partners for free.
eight such aircraft will be delivered to our armed forces.
Including. As noted by the Pulatov, in large cities there are schools with a certain ethnic language of instruction.
The Government should consider reducing the cost of holding mass events.
Today, Cadet Military Officers are well placed in military positions in various units and units, ranging from Chief Sergeant of the Armed Forces to Unit Commanders.
He noted that according to the results of last year, 2 million people visited the site.
R. Zhoshybayev noted that the preparatory work of the exhibition is under the direct control of the head of state, and said that the Kazakh side is conducting all the necessary measures for the high-quality preparation and conduct of the exhibition.
along with patients in the center of motherhood and childhood, the center employees also cast their votes for the citizen holding the post of president.
The positive changes that are taking place in our country fuel confidence in a bright future.
According to President Nursultan Nazarbayev, today the new geoeconomic truth of the 21st century is taking a step forward.
To date, 137 projects have been launched, more than 11 thousand jobs have been created.
But we assume that the main focus will be oncology.
from the hands of the Iranian lamp master turned out to be genuine works of art.
in Kazakhstan today, the subject of private entrepreneurship - a legal entity is registered through the www.egov.kz electronic portal of the government.
international Western European-Western Chinese transit corridor: commissioning of a 220-meter bridge over the Syr Darya River.
this information has become available in electronic garden facilities.
Over the past three years, the amount of funds allocated from the local budget for health has doubled.
In December 2014, a joint diagnostic center with the Kannam northerner clinic was opened at al-Farabi Kazakh State University.	in december2014 , diagnostic center has been opened at al-farabi kazakh national university together with the clinic gangnam severance .	0,47
according to the senior doctor, every day the polyclinic train receives from 150 to 250 patients.	according to the words of a senior doctor , daily train-clinic receives 150-250 patients .	0,47
In it, together with representatives of the regional chamber, work will be carried out on non-financial support for entrepreneurs.	as kulibayev noted turkestan created all the conditions for support and development of business .	0,47
during this month, everyone can support any 5 projects of the action.	the one-hour event continues to remain the key driver of the now larger movement .	0,47
aspects of the development of dual education were also discussed.	ye also discussed the aspects of dual education .	0,47
now we have a special working group.	but the government will not leave the domestic car industry derelict .	0,47
This year it is planned to raise funds for the development of small and female entrepreneurship.	it is planned to attract large loans from ebrd funds to support smes and promote women 's entrepreneurship .	0,47
if we modernize the zoo in accordance with the requirements, then overcoming a million is not so difficult.	a world-renowned architectural company of peter razbakh develops a large-scale reconstruction .	0,47
a water supply system project has also been developed, which will be built in the village of Kainar.	a number of other projects will be completed in the first quarter of next year .	0,47
the second stage of training "steppe eagle-2015" will be held on the basis of the training center "or."
Cooperation and cooperation include specific activities: joint scientific research, scientific and methodological advice, training of researchers, experience exchange programs and internships for researchers.
the bill is the further improvement of legislation in the field of intellectual property by improving conflicting articles, eliminating some rules that create administrative barriers.
It is noted that the list of optimized standards increased from 341 to 731.
today came furniture and appliances.
specialists of the company carry out work on improving production technologies, introducing modern system types of work.
without additional authorization, the consumer can use one of the three supreme court services, which includes a request for filing a statement of claim, a request for a court record in electronic form or an application for a protocol.
From today, the plant has entered full capacity.
centralized water supply to the population during the implementation of the projects reached 87.4
the first and second places went to Russia and South Korea.
Demegenov fought on the Belarusian front, before conscription he served as a gardener in the village
2,200 tons of cheaper diesel fuel were allocated for spring field work.
through the portal you can discuss bills aimed at improving the financial literacy of the population.
At the beginning of 2015, special attention was paid to airborne assault battalions and special forces.
Recall that the museum, created at the International Turkic Academy, was reconstructed in the fall of 2014 and supplemented with exhibits.
in addition, the implementation of the cluster will allow to preserve cultural and historical monuments, reserves, improve the environmental situation, develop the service sector, improve the infrastructure of the region.
now any kokshetau can buy rental housing for a cheap price and buy it later.
It is worth noting that 2546 voters were registered at polling station No. 92.
today 213 veterans of the Great Patriotic War live in Akmola region.
if your neighbors don't succeed, you'll have two chances of success.
for example, similar concrete armor used earlier are built up to three years.
serving such a people is a great honor for me.
the election campaign was watched by more than 10,000 domestic, more than 1,000 foreign observers and organizations.
there are reserves that support the population and do not allow a deterioration in life.
initially, a group of students consisting of ten people was determined.
if necessary, the commission, together with the antimonopoly authorities of the member countries of the union, conducts survey work.
This provides that dno works in the order of 24x7x365, maintains uninterrupted operation and fault tolerance of software and hardware systems at the level of 99.749% and saves data from unauthorized access to the system and physical violations, "he added.
The Secretary of State congratulated Ms. Yakab on the opening in Almaty of a geographically remote office for the provision of first aid.
Employees of the regional department of internal affairs and emergency situations expressed gratitude for the comprehensive support and expressed unfriendly work to ensure the safety of residents of the region.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that in order to improve this industry, together with other investors, relevant proposals were developed.
such trust in the enterprise should be the result of confidence in the quality of Kazakh transport.
because all measures to strengthen Kazakhstan's statehood are aimed at creating conditions for youth.
True, while we build on our purchases from abroad.
According to him, in addition, the pavilion pays attention to solving the problem of the island sea.
9,890 Kazakhstani schoolchildren from 179 schools of all regions of the country will take part in 2015 (4th grade - 4,852 people, 8th grade - 5,038 people).
According to the Vice Minister, over 10 months, exports of goods decreased by 4.9%.
Recall that members of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan take part in the exercises annually.
the normal conduct of the autumn-winter heating season depends not only on power engineers, but also on consumers.
the meeting went very well, the next meeting will be held with a member of our club.	we agreed next time we will come for a visit to one of our club 's member .	0,47
Mr. Lossertales will get acquainted with the construction of the exhibition complex and hear a report from representatives of the national company on the preparations for the exhibition.	according to the press service of  national company " astana expo-2017 " jsc v. loscertales will be familiarized with the progress of construction of the fairgrounds and will give a hearing of the representatives of the national company on the preparations for the exhibition .
to do this, it is planned to develop special programs for the development of entrepreneurship in traditional areas for immigrants.
Introduction of programmes to increase the level of treatment of patients with socially significant diseases;
The Deputy Secretary-General of the Investment Agency of Thailand, in his speech, noted the great investment opportunities in new emerging markets.
More than 40 questions received during the conference were answered comprehensively.
Italy is one of the largest foreign trade partners of our country.
in honor of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 170th anniversary of the great poet, together with the abai museum and the young wing center for children's creativity.
those who can act independently took part in a solemn event organized in their honor.
During the meeting with the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev, the main aspects of cooperation between the two countries in the trade, economic, investment and transport and transit spheres were discussed.
national interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan in international transit.
much has been said that this experience is useful from the point of view of practice to other foreign and foreign countries.
The main purpose of the bill is to ensure the protection of children from harmful information, the realization of the rights of children to receive and disseminate information appropriate to age, as well as to protect them from entering the information space of negative information.
at the same time, it should be noted that the identification of problems is carried out in any case.	n.aldabergenov also talked about the mechanism of the commission .	0,47
In this regard, in order to further improve the fisheries of the island region, the Governor's Office of the region approved the Roadmap for the development of fisheries in the Kyzylorda region for 2015-2017.	the roadmap of development of fishery for 2015-2017 years has been adopted in kyzylorda region .	0,47
Kazakh people have long known that sheep farming is the beginning of prosperity.	we derive strength in unity and harmony - those values that formed over the centuries .	0,47
and we will meet today in a team to express our support.	today we have gathered to announce the support for the candidacy of the president .	0,47
for high professional skill and exemplary performance of military service, Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Air Defense Forces - Chief of the Main Organizational and Mobilization Directorate of the Headquarters of the Air Force Commander-in-Chief Colonel Akhmetov. "
It is worth noting that the chamber previously held various events with the participation of military women.
The concept of cultural policy is the most important document for the further development of culture.
Kazakhstan annually takes part in the action, which is recognized as an authoritative dialogue platform of world tourism and allows to present rich history, culture and unique nature of the country.
2.5 thousand people are employed through the electronic youth labor exchange.
now no one is doing this.
at the plenary session, the people's representatives approved in the second reading the draft Code of Civil Procedure with accompanying amendments
in total, 8 teams out of 135 cadet athletes fought for championship titles.
after the parade, a solemn meeting was held in the club of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
During the visit, the Tokayev met with the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan abd-rauf al-raabde.
The corporation pays close attention to issues of local content, no domestic company pays such attention to this issue.	the largest mining and metallurgical company  kazakhmys " has held the vi forum " create kazakhstani product " with the participation of more than 315 domestic manufacturing enterprises , 755 representatives of large companies , small and medium-sized enterprises , specialized government agencies and development institutions .
The full results of last year contributed to the creation on the market of the Gulf countries and Turkey of a strategy for the development of transport routes necessary for the sale of products.
As a result, 244 sites carried out relevant analytical activities, on the basis of which the materials were sent to the relevant authorities to place these sites in Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Chugkin.
the gathering will be led by the deputy commander of the air defense forces for the combat and physical training of Colonel Kokpetov.
Factories are opening throughout the country, new jobs are being created.
young people should have high patriotic feelings and moral qualities, ready to defend their homeland.
the National Guard is headed by a leader whose position is indicated in article eight of this bill, "the committee on foreign relations, defense and security said in a statement.
with these funds, 517 final borrowers received microcredit and fully repaid the debt on schedule.
young people participating in presidential elections for the first time are very careful about their choice. young people voted for the first time today .
Over the past 2 years, innovative products in the structure of gross regional product have increased 2.5 times.
According to him, today the availability of the water supply system of the region is 87.4%.
It is noted that the vast majority of fines were paid for violation of traffic rules.
the second phase will involve 1,434 students and young professionals.
in the absence of a programme legally.
the first army games will be held this summer in Moscow.
this agreement will regulate issues of labor relations between employees and employers, issues of remuneration of teachers, medical and library workers, their working hours, and other social guarantees.
At the same time, according to L. Muzaparova, another reason for the global financial and economic crisis is that economic entities and developed countries have a lot of loans in the household sector.
Special attention was paid to identifying the issues on the agenda of the ministerial conference to be held this fall in connection with the growth of extremism and terrorism in Afghanistan, which is an influence of security in the region.
a number of Kazakhstani gold mining enterprises operate as a raw material contractor.
In accordance with the Constitution, after this procedure, the head of state becomes the guarantor of the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
construction work was carried out by the contracting company module-2030.
A multidisciplinary financing mechanism has been developed to develop the logistics of universities for 2015-2017, foreign specialists will participate in the preparation of new programs and advanced training.
archival documents can give a detailed nature of the historical event, so our main goal is to help "silent witnesses of the past," the director of the department of archival affairs and documentation of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Mustafina aliyah shared.
the event ended with a massive performance of the dance "black georga," the report said.
Also on this day, the people's representatives will consider a bill regarding amendments on water supply and sanitation.
in addition, funds were allocated for the overhaul of the rock reservoir of the Karaganda region.
At the end of the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee for Control in the Field of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Sayat Nusupov and UNESCO, the representative of daphne feinholz agreed to establish long-term partnerships aimed at improving the responsible conduct of scientific research with issues of ethics of science.
they will speak on behalf of the capital at the republican festival "My Kazakhstan," which will be held at the end of February.
Now the task is to fully disclose private entrepreneurial initiatives.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed currently unique conditions created for the kazakhstani business .	0,48
As noted by Zhakupova, in the field of education it is necessary to improve a special culture.	s.zhakupova stressed that it is necessary to improve special literature in the sphere of education .	0,48
Following the event, Vice Minister M. Myrzagaliyev held an informal meeting with representatives of twenty Austrian companies and discussed the work plans of companies in Kazakhstan.	following the event , the sides discussed plans of cooperation of these companies .	0,48
Stability and peace did not prevail in all countries that gained independence.	we , the nation of kazakhstan , are realized by our hearts .	0,48
In November last year, the head of state voiced the message "Nұr Zhol."
such exercises require training taking into account the individual characteristics of each particular specialist.
at the same time, financial support is provided for the project participants and the capabilities of Baiterek Holding are fully used.
A two-room apartment with 45 square meters will amount to 46 thousand tenge.
the document is aimed at improving the legal regulation of measures for the development of water supply and sanitation in settlements.
Majilismen set deadlines for the preparation of a conclusion on the ratification of an agreement on the division of the Caspian Sea floor with Turkmenistan.
monitoring of the electoral process, as well as timely public information through the garden, ensure transparency and increase confidence in the results of the vote.
now there are 40 thousand business processes across all companies.	transformation program - is a program of large-scale transformations of the fund 's activities and the activities of controlled portfolio companies .	0,48
these amendments do not change the conceptual provisions of the bill.	these amendments were reconsidered due to refinement of the parameters of the republican budget for 2015 .	0,48
As noted, these popular reforms were received by young people with great enthusiasm.	it is noted that these national reforms were encouraged by the younger generation of our country .	0,48
The Athens plant introduced first of all products into the national bank on April 2, 2014.	the remaining solid waste collected and transferred for further processing .	0,48
The fourth quarter report for the first time covers production performance in Kyrgyzstan.
Category b is the highest category of energy efficiency.
they will be printed in a special collection.
obviously, this multifunctional aircraft will significantly increase the combat capabilities of the air defense forces.
According to the draft, majilismen are recommended to consider a number of bills in the second reading.	the deputies will consider in the second reading the draft laws with accompanying amendments  on the minimum social standards and safeguards " and " on peacekeeping activities . "
the parties noted the high level of bilateral relations.
Of the 60-apartment communal buildings, 28 will be one-room, 32 - two-room.	it is noted that the house will consist of 28 one-bedroom and 32 two-bedroom apartments .	0,48
after this evening, we can confidently say that Spartak is "still relevant."
for all applications for the appointment of pensions and benefits, electronic models of cases have been developed and sent to the authorized body for consideration.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the scientific and clinical center of cardiac surgery and transplantology, and also talked with the staff of the institution.
Also, a power line with a length of 50 km to housing and water supply facilities was launched here.
To date, all our production associations fulfill the planned indicators and operate in normal conditions, "said B. Krykpyshev.
within its framework, officers can demonstrate their professional skills and personal qualities.
the documentary publishes data on what Spanish citizens survived in the karlag and witnesses to these events.
15 years.
but we did not get 1 percent of the evidence.
now people are consulting in opening their business, information on how state support for villagers turns out can be obtained in the center.
It was noted that such integration was very important during the difficult period taking place in the eco-space, and in the summer of 2015, when the organization turned 40 years old.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, a unique palace of schoolchildren was built, the number of educational grants was increased, the size of scholarships was increased, a world-class university was built, intellectual schools were built, the "future" program was adopted, a lot of work will be carried out in this direction, "the Mayor of the city said.
According to the head of state, Almaty city, where many financial institutions of Kazakhstan are located, will be preserved as a welder and financial conductor of the financial center.
Of course, the current number of posters is insignificant.
the issue of improving the effectiveness of interaction in connection with the signing of the EEO agreement is being updated.
Kazakhstanis, regardless of religion and ethnic origin, share joys with each other.
in addition, the operation with this tool will cost ten times cheaper.
It was also noted that today issues related to the reduction of administrative barriers in the direction of starting and conducting their business by current entrepreneurs are being worked out.
The art director of the carlo feliche theater, maestro giuseppe aquaviva, noted that the troupe's rise to Genoese life is associated with the interaction of two theaters.
The Institute of Surveillance has opened as part of the current election campaign.
nevertheless, depending on the characteristics of take-off and landing, the launch and landing operations of s-295 aircraft are allowed to small territory.
he came to this position in the 70s of the last century and went on a well-deserved rest in 1993.
According to experts, today Kazakhstan's economy remains strong.
flood measures and cleaning the city of snow.
As the expert noted, the electoral system of Kazakhstan considers the peculiarities of the political process.
These days, more than 200 young people are engaged in landscaping and sanitary cleaning of the city.
The bill provides for a change in the regulated procedures for submitting applications for search and search operations, according to which special protective, anti-dumping and compensatory measures are applied.
imports are many times larger than exports.
In particular, special attention should be paid to the processing of agricultural products.
At the same time, I want to say that we are deeply studying the experience of our Russian colleagues in this direction.
According to the press service of the Majilis, the adoption of this bill is the drafting of a single basic law on the regulation of public relations in the field of precious metals and precious stones.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his annual message constantly demonstrates new proposals and ways out of the crisis. the implementation of the state programs and targets set in the " nurly zhol " is our main goal .
If this work is finally studied and achieved, then it will have great assistance in agriculture.
a festive gift on behalf of the head of state.
It is also planned to discuss a strategy for ensuring transport security in international transport in the territory of the CIS member States.
prior to this, the athlete took part in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and in 2012 became the Olympic champion, winning a gold medal at the London Olympics.
If indicators such as reduction of infant mortality, detection of oncological diseases at an early stage are achieved, the institution will receive additional incentive funds that will be used to increase the wages of district doctors.
In the village of Orazak, inert materials are drained and buried with the help of the necessary zones.
5 . This decree shall be effective from the date of its first official publication.
As noted in the city akimat, the total number of tree planting this year is not limited to this.
also considered the issue of developing an opinion with accompanying amendments to the bill "On the health of the people and the health system" and the bills "On arbitration" and "On forensic activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan," "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on pension provision."
This bright and impressive event, held for the fifth time in one of the most beautiful and beautiful halls of the city, found a solid place for the capital's calendar of secular receptions of the American elite. bright and colorful event held for the fifth year in a row in one of the oldest and most beautiful halls of the city has already firmly fit into the metropolitan calendar of important social events of the american elite .
Italian ballet lover says she followed the poster.	bakhtiyar adamzhan ( spartacus ) became the audience 's favorite .	0,48
To this end, we signed a memorandum of understanding with the Russians today to work in bilateral cooperation, "said A. Aidarov.
we support the course of development of a prosperous country, the initiative of the assembly to hold early elections.
1.8 times the plan or 765 citizens with disabilities.
therefore, all funds raised will be used to purchase medical equipment to wait for the smallest citizens of the country, it was decided at the stage of planning and preparing the event.
M.Kairambaeva, Deputy Director for Scientific Affairs, Director of the Friendship House, spoke at the opening ceremony of the exhibition. Talubaev and veteran x. Mataev began to star.
He fought as part of the southwestern front, 12th army, 333rd infantry division, 1118th infantry regiment, participated in the battles for the Dnieper and Moscow.
Recall that today the capital hosts the Kazakh-Lithuanian business forum, in which 200 representatives of Kazakh and Lithuanian government bodies, enterprises and organizations, institutions and business organizations take part.
The Iranian delegation met with representatives of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the leadership of the naval forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
however, he paid close attention to the issue of the competent and effective use of available resources.
According to the results of the regional competition, the family of Bidildins of the district was recognized as the best.
Thus, the participants of the event got acquainted with the customs of various ethnic groups of our country, which form the basis of interethnic culture.
it is also a manifestation of the unity and harmony of the country, peaceful harmony and brotherhood between nationalities and nationalities.
Also purchased and leased 120 alternative energy sources and wind generators
According to the Department of Statistics of the city, the main grain crop directed at food is wheat (94.3% of the total grain allocated to food).
To date, the number of criminal cases examined in juvenile cases in the court of Astana has decreased. the number of criminal cases in juvenile court decreased .
with the expansion of stations, the number of retail space in the city will also increase.
the monograph is dedicated to university students, masters and doctoral students and a wide range of readers interested in the history of the Kazakh people as a whole.
Taikazan - a symbol of the relay race "Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan - 20 good deeds," which visited all regions of the country - will be solemnly presented to the national museum.
The issues of installing ecological posts and improving the ecological situation of Pavlodar city were also discussed.
During the training camp, the commanders are commanded by the deputy commander of the airmobile troops of the Armed Forces for combat training, Colonel R. Musdybayev.
According to him, the concept of the bill on public and private partnership has been approved.
the Senate has adopted amendments to legislation on gambling.
sustained growth.
today we are successfully conducting these operations, "he said.
in general, the implementation of this program made it possible to prepare a set of interconnected anti-corruption measures.
At the end of the meeting, the ambassador expressed high respect to the head of the country's supervisory body and expressed sincere gratitude for the reception and informative interview in the indicated year.
It is worth noting that over the past three years the results of UNT have improved significantly in Aktobe region.
In turn, this will positively affect the image of the public service and increase the confidence of citizens.
other paintings say that the Kazakhs warmly received the peoples resettled in the Kazakh wide steppes, and posters and documentaries made during the adoption of orphans leave no one indifferent.
The event will be attended by about 2,000 residents and guests of the city.
a medical cluster will be built in Semey.
We are currently working to update the content of preschool education.
this allows you to review at the highest level when assembling and improving complex models.
. The draft Code aims to ensure effective judicial protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of individuals and legal entities by modernizing it in order to increase the speed of civil procedure legislation, to actively apply conciliation procedures in judicial proceedings, and to ensure the use of information technology in the activities of the courts.
in order to preserve and reproduce the fish stock in the city of Atyrau, sturgeon plants "atyrau" and "yak-atyru" operate.
All borrowers who want to take part in the program should visit second-level banks and leasing companies that have received loans, Kazagro reports.
the authors restored the names of hundreds of their fellow countrymen who were missing, whose fate is unknown, "said the head of the regional department of internal policy.
According to the report of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as of January 6, 51 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 9.6 billion tenge were opened, of which 3.1 billion tenge was withdrawn from savings accounts with payment of a fee for money legalization for 338.0 million tenge to the budget.
Our policy with our neighbors is fair, we have good relations with such great states as Russia and China.	according to the kazakh leader friendly mansion contributes the inner stability and in turn , the kazakhstani inner stability contributes rapid development of economy , culture , education .	0,48
In turn, the Governor of the region gave comprehensive answers to questions and received a positive assessment of the population.	the action plan for the development of fish farming in 2015-2017 years was adopted .	0,48
the fairy tale lay not only among our tourists, but also among foreigners.	akyrtas excites visitors especially foreigners .	0,48
A special place in the parade can be noted the combined orchestra of the Ministry of Defense and air shows.	a special place in the parade will be taken by the combined orchestra of the ministry of defense and the air show .	0,48
Today, Kazakhstan does not have a personality that is comparable to Nursultan Nazarbayev from abroad, which, like the head of state, can set large-scale tasks for the economy and give impetus to the work of state bodies, "Azatperushev said.
according to the above document, the economic association will enter into force on the basis of the customs union from January 1, 2015.
The event was held by the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region and the regional department of education as part of improving the level of technical and vocational education.
The head of the city congratulated the audience on the opening of the championship and noted the importance of the event.
So we take history lessons, read the past and focus on the future.
in fact, 64 objects were put up for sale, 48 objects were sold.
even the letter fluorographic apparatus immediately transmitted the picture for X-ray to the patient.
This document was developed in accordance with the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to develop a single law on arbitration at the opening of the fourth session of the parliament of the fifth convocation.
In the Mughalzhar district, as part of the Zhkzhu-2020 program, 2 streets with a total length of 5.2 km were repaired.
The debt railway will increase the export potential of this route through the berths leading to the Caspian Sea, including a ferry device on land, "the report said.
By the way, today is a very high level of turnout.
The regional administration plans to send citizens suffering from serious illnesses to Korea.
competition graduates can use the competition mark for advertising purposes "emblem" for three years.
the results of the first five-year plan should be analysed in order to understand how Kazakhstan should now be guided.
the specified information contains inconsistencies, some documents are not correctly filled in.
In general, during the meeting, company representatives considered the possibility of implementing joint projects.
Work was carried out to provide the population of the city with cheap food security products.	according to the government regulation maximum prices for 33 kinds of socially important food products have been set .	0,48
In December, the first batch of copper concentrate was sent from this mine to a smelter.	the group has two major copper projects under construction , bozshakol and aktogay , and a third , koksay , at scoping stage .	0,48
In turn, this will create favorable conditions for communication between local residents and the regional center.	it will create a convenience to the public in terms of transport links with the regional center .	0,48
Statistics provided by the European Union show that in 5 years Kazakhstan has achieved a strong improvement in the processing industry.	statistics shows that for five years kazakhstan has managed to boost the manufacturing sector .	0,48
the exhibition presents a cascade of mines of the 30s, umbrellas, hammers, kayla, etc.	alash khan mausoleum , bolgan ana etc .	0,48
this measure will allow to accept the products of remote farms together with improving the quality of the purchased raw materials.	this will improve the quality of purchased raw materials ,  the ministry reported .
According to him, the fight against this disaster is a matter of time.
opening the evening, adviser-envoy of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia Viktor Temirbaev noted that "the delivery of the soul of each people through music and poetry exists in the traditions of any country.
Today, as part of a working trip, the head of the region, Sergei Kulagin, got acquainted with the life of the Miakro capital, which is engaged in rabbit breeding.
The oracle image will be printed on the emblem of the XIV International Conference on Ethnology in Northern Eurasia.
among them are unique panels dating back to the period of the Chinese Qing dynasty.
however, given the results of the study, bgm still correctly sees a deduction from a 12-year education.
As for the modern election company, a number of features are taken into account, including the external effect of holding early elections, he said.
According to him, in the village named after Mustafin B. Sagintayev held an operational meeting in connection with the flood in the region.
first, kha members, members of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, they will lecture and inform you about the 20th anniversary of this assembly.
During the visit, the head of state laid flowers at the karasai batyr monument in the village of Uzynagash, and also visited the dzhabayev mausoleum in the village of Zhambyl and examined the monument.
The head of the department also said that war veterans who went to the front from eastern Kazakhstan, but do not live on this day in the region, will be invited to all major regional events.
these circumstances will significantly depend on human factors and will not allow the full use of powers in this area, the department said.
As part of the event, a special concert of military songs was organized by the V.N. Zelenogo folk ensemble in the district house of culture.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the West Kazakhstan region, in order to identify and prevent corruption in the road transport college named after A. Imanov, a seminar was held with the participation of teachers and college staff.
this approach will allow you to balance the indicators independently depending on the growth of inflation.
In total, more than 122 thousand children study in 444 schools of the region.
the parties signed a memorandum of understanding on regular flights by Kazakh carriers.
guests prepared a traditional Kazakh dish.
The evaluation of health facilities is based on approved criteria.
over the past 5 years, the number of voters in the country has increased by more than half a million people.
theoretical knowledge and practical skills gained by cadets during training allow them to take up their duties in the specialties they received at the beginning of next year.
Kazakh national dances and songs performed by the group surprised residents and guests of manisa.
At the end of the event, the participants unanimously agreed that the interethnic state policy implemented in Kazakhstan made it possible to form a culture of tolerance and solidarity in the country's society on issues of nationalities and religions.
On this day, 100 trees were planted in the Molodezhny park.
we also identified a number of questions about the upcoming visit of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Islamic Republic of Iran this year. we also discussed the prospect of a return visit of the head of state in iran this year .
On the same day, a meeting took place. Musinova and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on km Dr. Khaled al-Atyya discussed ways to strengthen bilateral cooperation and organize the visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on km to the capital.
Within its framework, it is necessary to open kindergartens on the first floors of residential complexes under construction.
To date, in agreement with foreign educational institutions-partners and employers, a list of new laboratories equipped with the best world standards has been determined. the today 's list includes laboratories of metallurgy , engineering profile , petrochemical , food processing , machinery , etc .
in the village of Silk Road in the area of ​ ​ the arshal of sports training facilities. for the sports hall of the Kutpanovich school.
To attend regional events, the health of our veterans may not suffer.	representative of ecological security center of the region yelena polyantseva told about campaign  i love my city ! " which was supported by public associations and executive bodies .
Our citizens will not be left without state control, "A. Sovetov assured.
young rappers in the city of Zhanaozen read rap to the president on behalf of young people.
the provided state support will create favorable conditions for business development in rural areas, will help attract private investment in the industry, and will increase the efficiency of allocated budget funds.
resumed production at the Zhezkazgan copper plant.
However, despite the measures taken, there is still a need for kindergartens.
65% of 223 projects within the framework of the industrialization map are implemented in rural areas.
To date, 45 settlements from 6 of these areas are under strict control.
after that, the children were invited to overcome the obstacle course, which is part of the daily training of the marines.
Currently, the company has entered into agreements with several outlets in the region to sell its products.
this committee is an advisory body of the commission for the implementation of a coherent policy on consumer protection of the member countries of the union.
At the meeting, the deputy head of the Department of Agriculture of the region Zhairakhan Pashkenov informed about the ongoing work in the agriculture of the region.
young people visited the house of Alexander Bibichev, examined his health.
During the meeting, the parties noted the importance of strengthening inter-parliamentary relations.
I congratulate all Akmola residents and descendants of heroes on this significant event, I wish you good health, happiness, good luck and all the best, "the head of the region said.
the regional stage of the republican festival was held in 6 nominations.
it will be our own contribution to greening the capital, popularizing environmental culture, "said the executive director of the library, commenting on the action.
Practical interest was shown by the functions of the specialized agency for the commercialization of scientific developments, taking into account the work carried out in the framework of the innovation park named after L. Humilev.
to date, all processes, with the exception of the reception and processing of applications, are carried out without effective automated tools or their smaller recruitment, or their own development by committee staff.
we must take this step now.
Deputy Chairman of the Zhambyl Regional Territorial Election Commission, the procedure and stages of the voting procedure and counting of votes at the polling station, as well as the activities of the territorial election commissions.
The ceremony of handing over the keys to the car has already been held in a solemn parade.
from the opening of a profession to the effective management of them.
accordingly, special rules for admission, transfer and retraining to the military education system should be developed.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the purpose of the training is to increase the coherence of management bodies and personnel in the fulfillment of tasks within the established time frame.
As noted in the report, the main goal of the event is the formation of anti-corruption consciousness among young people, the education of immunity to giving and receiving a bribe and a caring attitude to the crime.
Tokayev's working visit to New York has become an important part of the preparations for the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
among them are adoptive parents, guardians and foster carers of children.
it is assumed that about 70 people will attend the parade.
Governor of the region instructed the regional akimats to prepare plans for major repairs in educational institutions, the Governor's office reported.
the history of the creation of the fire service of the capital in the exhibition hall.
During the event, priority is given to accredited medical organizations.
the applicant needs to prove the achievement of energy efficiency.
Also in the davos, the Karim Massim met with the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China or Ketsian.
it is planned that this agreement will create conditions for the rapid response of entrepreneurs with state bodies.
for those who wear a pagon, there should be no set time, it is necessary to serve your homeland around the clock, so rewards should encourage you to work cleaner than today. there is no normalized schedule for those who wear shoulder straps ; you need to serve the homeland 24 hours per day .
In the city of Sarkan, activists assisted veteran of the Great Patriotic War Shevchenko Dmitry Timofeevich, who was born in Donetsk Ukrainian land.
the history of Kazakh statehood has been preserved not only in annals and legends, but also in gold ornaments made by jewelers.
a positive difference is also observed for external migration (+ 409 people).
During the control work, the committee of creditors and the Baiterek holding and the akimat of South Kazakhstan region carried out a number of measures to electrify the building and restart the equipment.
Thus, in 2014, the growth of SMEs remained.	the number of small and medium-sized businesses is growing in kazakhstan .	0,49
the solemn evening was liked not only by the children, but also by the elders.
moreover, in accordance with the norm provided to the military, types of useful products containing the necessary vitamins and sufficient energy value are included.
Almaty region is preparing for the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
it should be a patriotic act for all Kazakhstanis.
Introduction of the position of Ethics Commissioner.
At the end of 2014, 87% showed educational coverage for children aged 1 to 6 years, 98% for children aged 3 to 6 years.	the basic ways of solving the problem of shortage of places is a rational use of vacant space in existing educational institutions , expanding the network of private kindergartens and building new kindergartens ,  she said .
With great interest, children and teachers got acquainted with the historical sights of the regional center.
reduced level of natural wear of fixed assets.
because all international measurement methods cannot be applied in the same way, and not all of them can be fully applied.
The agreement on the construction of the mosque was agreed as part of the 1500th anniversary of Turkestan.
he spent ten years of his life in exile in Kazakhstan.
All districts of the region presented their songs in the vocal genre, "said the methodologist of the regional house of folk art gulnar seitalin.
therefore, the kha experience is of interest to many countries, "said A. Sadvakasova.
this fund can be created at the own expense of a citizen-candidate for president or at the expense of the organization that represents him, and at least at the expense of citizens supporting this candidate.
In the future, the number of social facilities providing high-quality services to the population will be increased in the region.
Speaking at the conference, the senator noted the main role of the country's constitution in building a reckless legal and democratic state and the special place of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the field of interethnic solidarity, and also noted the main directions of the president's message.
the program of competitions in the flock and escape includes targeting of regular weapons in the local zone.
Recall that last fall the first stage of the reconstruction of the runway was completed and the Ural airport began to work.
the panel session suggested strengthening measures to ensure food security in the republic.
At the end of December, a closed pavilion appeared at the city station to receive utility bills and units.	according to the governor 's office , a new indoor modern shop with terminals for payment of mobile service and public utilities built at the petropavlovsk railway station in december .	0,49
As noted in the report, the head of the city gave specific instructions to city structures in order to continue successful work.	according to the report , the mayor gave some specific instructions to the urban structures .	0,49
At the same time, more than 8 thousand OMP departments work.	the current governance model does not meet the requirements of today .	0,49
At the same time, about 100 locals find a nail here.	also , the factory employed about 100 local residents .	0,49
this depends on the coordinated actions of the units and the correct performance by each soldier of their duties and maneuvers.	it demonstrates the importance of the rapid and sustainable management , which determines the consistency of all divisions , the correct execution of each task and its military maneuver .	0,49
Restriction of production within the list of top-10 and Kazneftegazservice, "signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation and joint actions between the Ministry of Energy of the Republic and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to attract domestic entrepreneurs.
the commissioning of these facilities will lead to the completion of the construction of the highway.
The purpose of the event is to teach young people to lead a healthy lifestyle.
in addition, an exhibition of weapons and communications items was organized for the participants.
According to the head of state, strengthening strategic partnership with actively developing people is also an important area for our country.
A meeting with labor veterans was organized at the Center for Children's Creativity of Arshanism, where children and their parents studied.
the department I head will provide the fastest possible assistance to the working group on this issue, "he said.
Colonel of the fire service of the so-called Sabirov congratulated the guest of honor on the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan and the anniversary of the upcoming great victory, wished good health and long years of life, sincerely thanked and thanked for his merits in the struggle for independence and freedom of the country.
department staff presented women veterans with flowers and cash gifts.
positive, systemic changes intensified the scientific process in the republic and favorably influenced qualitative and quantitative indicators. the positive systemic changes have intensified the scientific process in the country as a whole .
workers from among the unemployed citizens of the area.
In addition, master classes, content and communication plans of the exhibition were presented during the meeting.
bills providing for the ratification of a number of documents are submitted for discussion by deputies.
All we do are new jobs, and I ask all central authorities and the media to monitor and deliver which zone is well engaged in creating new jobs.	central bodies and mass media should monitor the situation on creation of workplaces .	0,49
Also, the GSK will include a special design and technological bureau of space technology of pilot production (gt. Aktb).	in addition to assembling and testing system of spacecrafts , the complex will include the special design and technological bureau of space technology with pilot production .	0,49
At this polling station there are really many who make their choice for the first time.	there are a lot of those students who make the choice for the first time .	0,49
In May 2015, together with the Consulate General of Kazakhstan, an exhibition of documents presented by the National Archive on the History of the Second World War and the Central State Archive of Film Documents and Sound Recordings of Kazakhstan will be organized in Almaty, the capital and Washington, "said Mr. Akhmedyarov.
Employees of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Akmola region examined the settlements of the Tselinograd district and identified a number of flooded houses.
at the same time, the number of people involved in research increased from 190 to 236 people, and respondents - from 30 to 38 thousand people.
Recall that in the extraordinary presidential elections held on April 26, 2015, Nursultan Nazarbayev won 97.75% of the vote.
According to the ministry, the main purpose of the visit is to fully familiarize itself with the effectiveness of the ongoing exercises on the new combat training system.
education was selected according to certain criteria and organized in nine schools.
these health-improving measures were carried out in the area, which reduced the population's access to the city.
thanks to your exploits at the front and work in the rear. you forged this victory , fighting at the front , and working in the rear .
As part of the festive event, its participants will visit 7 cities and 3 districts.
also outlined several promising areas of partnership in connection with the development of the capital.
It is very important for citizens of Kazakhstan to develop measures of social effective support without any restrictions.
without violating anyone's rights.
The purpose of the event is to study the foundations of the formation and development of the assembly, to increase the interest of young scientists in studying the history of the assembly.
Deputy Mayor of Astana, who handed the keys, congratulated the Andrei veterans on the upcoming March and Victory Day, wishing them good health, the report said.
The authorized body implementing this agreement on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan has determined the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Reports on the implementation of the provisions of the human rights conventions shall be sent to Geneva on time.
And to date, the capital's Ainur side has won first place in the nomination.
before closing the stream of voters standing in line before the opening of the polling station.
During the meeting, plans for ethnocultural associations and youth organizations for 2015 were heard and discussed.
successful implementation of the project will give impetus to the development of the public-private partnership mechanism.
It should be noted that the main task of the committee on the regulation of natural monopolies and the protection of competition in modern conditions is to create additional opportunities for the development of private business and ensure the formation of equal legal conditions for the activities of entrepreneurs in the market.
According to the message of the head of state "Nr zhol - the beginning of the future" work on development of transport and logistic, power infrastructure will be continued.
Following the meeting, specific instructions and recommendations were given.
the forum will present the best developments in the field of nuclear medicine.
the best results were shown by representatives of the airborne assault brigade captain gulnar aulova and corporal makpal hafizov.
my father also had a family. "
the flag of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was solemnly raised on the central square.
the city of zhezkazgan is the last stop scheduled for April.
Following the meeting akim of the city adilbek dzhaksybekov instructed to carry out the heating season, improve the courtyard areas, organize constant control over snow removal and road safety.
At the event, the head of the department of public service and anti-corruption prevention of the department explained that the department needs to establish close cooperation with all civil institutions and oppose corruption in society.
the sniper girl constantly raised her skill in training.
among them are young Kazakh scientists.
each tank crew makes every effort to demonstrate their skill in training.
their share is 82.4%, state budget funds - 8.8%, bank loans - 4.7%, other loans - 4.1%.
on this day, popular melodies sounded in the field camp.
To date, more than 239 people have been registered on the www.resume.bolashak.gov.kz portal.
his goal is simple and friendly - to give the child a good book and attract as many people as possible to such a good cause, "said the governor of the region generous Nurken.
for this reason, the village of Akhmetov entrusted the mine leaders with the responsibility of winding up the flanks of the Maleevsky field.
the glory of heroism and brave exploits shown by you will forever be preserved in the memory of Kazakhstanis and will continue from generation to generation, "the head of the city noted.
The Turkish World Islamic League noted active participation in the upcoming V Congress.
For the first time, the akim of the region visited the house of Valentine German.
on the day of voting, the electoral process was organized very well.
At the end of the meeting, Honored Artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurlan Nunerbayev performed songs for mothers and women, and also pleased the audience in the hall of tender wives.
The agreement also demonstrates the viability of the efforts of the EAEU as a full-fledged integration association.
the plot of the opera is borrowed from the French novel henri murge "Representations from the Life of Bohemia."
The Chairman noted the interest of the Senate of Kazakhstan in intensifying inter-parliamentary cooperation with the Congress.
rural district, village, settlement, city of regional value.
At the same time, he noted that citizens of the country can get rental housing.
However, now new production industries mainly use new technologies in other areas, which are developing on the basis of economic diversification, "he said.
a report on this issue was made by the head of the regional department of land relations, jolan lobster.
P. Poroshenko drew attention to the fact that the second side should act in the same way, convincing the Ukrainian side to stop shelling at the established time.
the previous satellite of the resource-p series No. 1 was launched a year ago.
Glass House Glass Fiber Manufacturing and Installation Plant
The board presented drafts of a number of methods.	the meeting touched upon all issues of the agenda concerning the rail safety at 1520 network territory .	0,49
Following the meeting, the head of state set a number of specific tasks.	following the results of the meeting , the head of the state has given a number of specific instructions .	0,49
also gave specific examples of the problems of party representatives solved by legal aid.	in this regard , specialists of the public reception of  nur otan " party provide consulting and legal services , " baibek said .
After that, the head of the region visited the house of war veterans Tatiana Pimenova, Dmitry Moskaltsov, Kolobova's hopes and handed congratulations to the head of state.
each of the heroic epics and lyro-epic works is the same work of art.
The rector noted that during the creation of our republic, training in executive skills was very well developed.
He also called on a member of the trade board to intensify cooperation with members of the board of business representatives.
One of the priorities of industrial-innovative development of Akmola region is local content.
I sincerely congratulate the Nazarbayev on their victory in the early elections. i heartily congratulate nursultan nazarbayev !
The main goal of the program is to reduce meat prices through the breeding of meat breeds, to consolidate livestock farms by acquiring cattle, which are privately owned by the population, to ensure the sustainable development of the meat industry.
In his opening remarks, the interim attorney in Armenia of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Khasenov rope, spoke about the current state of Kazakh-Armenian relations.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh diplomat held talks with the mayor of the city and the prefect of the city of pisa atillio viskont.
This year, the assembly celebrates its 20th anniversary.
312 veterans and home front workers received medals.
the ceremony continued with a concert of the family creative team.
and may the first light of day bring happiness, confidence in the future to each Shanyrak!
R. Zhoshybayev noted that expo-2017 will become an effective platform for demonstrating the scientific potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of renewable energy sources and will contribute to the development of multilateral cooperation in this area.
among the winners of this award are a professor, corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, head of the department of urology and andrology of kazmubba, gynecologist hope of misinova, cardiac surgeon Yuri, neurologist nurlan koyshibaev, head of the department of neurology of kazmubba (2010-2013) and such well-known scientists as a specialist in X-ray surgery Dmitry.
around the shanyrak, the sun's rays scatter, on the sides of which a blue sky is depicted.
From the newly created register, 50 of the country's largest industrial companies were selected, using more than 30 energy resources, which set standards for energy used to produce their products, "said A. Zherzhanov.
in the event of an emergency period of the economy, they are obliged to retain their employees as much as possible.
K.Massimov noted Kazakhstan's intentions to deepen Kazakhstan's accelerated development in the field of economic diversification, as well as improve its position in the global competitiveness index rating.
In turn, the head of the NPP Timur Kulibayev expressed confidence that cooperation will contribute to increasing the level of competition in the business environment along with the implementation of the state policy to support entrepreneurship.
on these issues, we will exchange views and agree on the next meetings.
a clear structure of work on the reception of milk from the population and a procurement algorithm have been developed.
our girl soldiers also showed excellent results.
According to the Ministry of Defense, a solemn reception was organized for them, an orientation tour of the territory and important objects of the department.
during this time, the cadets will improve their knowledge and practical skills.
at the same time, it should be noted that the protesters can complete the proposal with the words "we vote for peace, we vote for friendship."
5 years ago, body fragments were discovered, the name of which is listed in the book of memory of the Novosibirsk region, "said the granddaughter of the veteran.
The queue number for the apartment can be found at the time of application.
in addition, according to him, appropriate work is being carried out to determine the most popular goods on an ongoing basis.
in a perinatal center with a diagnostic clinic.
for example, if the company employs 50 people in need of special needs, then the company will fall into this category.
The exhibition is held jointly with the National Museum of Kazakhstan and the Erarta Museum of Modern Art with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation.
According to the results of the exam, the linguistic commission unanimously decided by open voting on the free possession of the state language by a candidate for president of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
on behalf of the entire Brazilian people and on their own behalf.
Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform Rakhmet Mukashev, Deputy Head of the Law Enforcement System Department of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan Marat Saksenbayev, the statement said.
Honored Fire and Rescue Trainer of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major of the Fire Service m.e., noted that the schedule of children's participation in swimming classes has been approved.
On the agenda of the next meeting of the commission, topical issues were raised aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the eo, according to the official website of the Prime Minister.
During the discussion of the document, a number of issues were raised that require improvement by the deputies.
the parties also agreed to hold the next meeting in the capital, and the President of Montenegro noted that for them one of the important tasks is to organize the visit of the Prime Minister of his country to Kazakhstan.
according to him, the Khan elective tradition took place in the form of a large kurultai.
recently, an account was opened in Zhilstroysberbank on behalf of 12 pupils of orphanages.
it is impossible to carry out passenger transportation without repairing this part of the airport.
In order to widely disseminate the propaganda of Expo 2017 to the world public, in the coming days the visit will visit the Indian capital and give interviews to the authoritative media of the country with a population of 1 and a half billion people.
In his message, the UN Secretary General noted that this was the main incentive to protect the dignity of the families and communities of women who died.
In 2013, the farm acquired 93 breeding cattle, 5 bulls and 5 horses, "the report said.
Head of the health department of Astana city aigul eight-bayeva noted the measures taken to reduce the priority and improve the quality of services in city polyclinics.
also verifies compliance with vehicle safety requirements when issuing a certificate.
improving knowledge, moves to the creation of programs for "smart" machines.
this exhibition is the result of the creative project "Memory Returned."
And before that, the country purchased lifting trucks abroad.
On the direct initiative and instructions of Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, scheduled classes of university students in physical culture and sports will be held on the basis of the ski track.
During the large-scale event, which lasted two days, the peasants were able to exchange experience and present their many years of work at a specially organized exhibition, "the statement said.
These 3 appeals were sent to the central election commission for consideration on the merits.
From April 10 to 13, groups of headquarters and special equipment will be sent to these regions.
In addition, the meeting discussed the foundations of the relationship between the UN and the government structure and the main areas necessary for them to achieve a fruitful result.
in their view, the two Heads of State were giving new impetus to sustainable development.
the singer is one of the best performers in the part of the soprano opera puccini.
these holidays leave a mark on our history, our values occupy a special place. "
A special place in the parade can be noted the combined orchestra of the Ministry of Defense and air shows.
the spring-field work of the current year, in addition to the budget funds of the bank and the food corporation, is carried out by the fund for financial support for agriculture as part of the "agriculture" program at the expense of its own funds.
the city takes all measures to prevent flooding and emergency situations.
communicated with schoolchildren, reported on the work of the assembly, the unity of the people, handed over to schoolchildren the necessary books and textbooks.
in houses where no infrastructure and communication work has been carried out, land is not provided.
In Kazakhstan, weather stations are equipped with devices capable of determining large volumes of climate measurement indicators. the station created by stanislav sukhonosov includes modern equipment to measure almost all meteorological parameters : air temperature , humidity , barometric pressure , wind speed and direction , solar radiation power , uv index , etc .
the veteran recalled the difficult - winter period and noted that this is the merit of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the market, investors and participants in the securities market should be as transparent and understandable as possible in order to correctly assess the value of the company.
therefore, the city was in 2nd place.
in the Brest fortress, more than 3 thousand Kazakhstanis served their military debt.
And on the issue of attracting labor, a number of other issues are envisaged, such as improving these procedures, the quota for attracting foreign labor, and the payment of measures to attract labor.
By law, it is necessary to identify the categories of criminal cases to which a jury will necessarily be involved.
therefore, in order for the personnel to carry out combat missions efficiently and promptly, each fighter must know clearly what he is doing.
In the future, in 2016-2019, the plant plans to export its products to Azerbaijan.
Employees of the kazunion tour operator shared important and useful information with travel agencies of the country.
a memorial capsule is installed next to the monument B. Momyshulya.	wwii veterans laid the time capsule in special place near the monument to baurzhan momyshuly .	0,50
most employed economically active residents.
needing berkinbaev - a worker of the military rear, currently lives in the capital in the private sector on the ground.
they associate this professional holiday with the opening in 1701 of the first school of engineers.
The employment roadmap will continue.
About 70 representatives of other nationalities and nationalities live in the country.
These are dances joined by residents and spectators of the region.
to diversify agriculture.
I wish you the success of your efforts towards the formation of a dynamic and prosperous nation.
the veteran of the service noted that he lives in Petropavlovsk only all his life.
achieving a technology capable of accommodating multiple functions during the shortening of the overall life.
we plan to open the production of chemical reagents in the oil and gas industry, and then diversify the business into the development of a regulator for the growth of building materials and plants. in this region , one of the components of investment attractiveness is the presence of a special economic zone .
In addition, Stockman noted that during the monitoring all conditions for the free movement of observers were created.
In this regard, the winners of its regional textbooks took part in the event.
Dr. Krusberg also drew attention to the need to first understand what business transformation is.
we analyzed the data of the Central Election Commission, the peculiarity of these elections is that we were able to distinguish the activity of the elections in clean time, and at 16:00 the CEC informed us that the largest activity was between 11:00 and 12:00. we were monitoring the data that the cec gave us and really , i want to note that these elections are different with its dynamics .
here several species of feed useful for birds are created.
voter activity indicates its involvement in the process taking place in the country, a desire to express indifference to the future of the country.	voters demonstrated their involvement in what is happening in the country , showed their care for the future .	0,50
This year it is planned to open an entrepreneurship support center in Aktau.	in all districts of the region escs ( entrepreneurs support center ) are opened due to fund  damu . "
it is worth noting that under Russian law the battle banner is not assigned, and its copy is made only in unifying cases.
improving the knowledge and qualifications of regular party members is a requirement of time.	the event was attended by about 80 chairmen of the grassroot organizations of the party .	0,50
now it is, "said the Central Communications Service.
in addition, there was a comprehensive exchange of views with the Israeli side on the prospects for increasing cooperation on specific areas and projects.
In the Tselinograd region, a thermal generator project with a capacity of 750 kW was implemented.	169 kilometers of power supply and 8 distribution transformer substations built in the region .	0,50
K. Massimov confirmed that the issue of holding presidential elections is being actively discussed in society.	mr. massimov confirmed the people discuss the presidential elections actively .	0,50
Majilis deputies also intend to express their point of view.	minister of energy vladimir shkolnik and deputy of the mazhilis shavkhat utemisov will be the main speakers .	0,50
the main theme of the international day this year is women and slavery. "
in mining and quarrying - 351.6 billion tenge.
three radioactive contamination sites were eliminated in the territory of the residential zone of the regional center.
inheritance of such an internship is few among Kazakh servicemen.
Kazakhstan, which had suffered from nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk test site and had voluntarily renounced nuclear weapons, intended to continue actively its work aimed at promoting a nuclear-weapon-free world and its early entry into force.
Zhasotan residents held an action together with the youth center of the city Governor's Office.
today we are registered with akim of Alakol district A. Zhakanbaev.
During the seminar, the tasks of sellers stipulated by the current legislation were announced, and a new bill "On Consumer Protection" was presented.
During the year, 157 km of highways were put into operation.
As he noted, "another concrete evidence can be called today's initiative of the recent message" Nұr zhol is the way to the future. "
the winners were awarded awards and diplomas of the Almaty Regional Department of Sports and Physical Culture, the Republican Eagle Federation.
Following the meeting, the chamber was instructed to consider the election of candidates for the supreme court and arbitrator of the activities of the CIS economic courts.
this will increase the efficiency and professionalism of the state apparatus.
Participants are divided into 4 groups, engaged in shooting, engineering and the guidance of specialist instructors in the main subjects of combat training.
the collection of the Saryarka library focuses on the work of famous poets and writers of Saryarka.
at the end of the course, the overall results of the training are announced, students are awarded international certificates.
During the meeting with medical workers and patients, Salidat Kairbekova spoke about the tasks facing the country's health care system in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
an automated information system of the state urban planning cadastre is being created, which allows controlling all data on large construction facilities and socio-economic and other sectors of the region.
at the same time, he noted that the increase in oil production will be due to an increase in production at the offshore field and the modernization of oil production from the sea at the Kashagan field.
In accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 11 united trade union organizations of regions and garrisons, 209 primary trade union organizations are registered.
K.Tokayev supported the holding of presidential elections in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
the Kazakh people, given your rich experience as a wise politician and statesman, certainly made a choice for peace, stability, further well-being of citizens and the whole republic, "the telegram says.
Residents of 115 rural districts from 12 districts sell products to milk reception centers.
qualified specialists fully refer to the details of the conflict and provide legal professional assistance.
that's 10,000 people.
The history of this enterprise begins in 1944.
it's time to talk about the formation and creation of a monetary union, "said V. Putin.
Voting will last April 26 from 7 a.m. to 20-00 p.m.
The eurozone agreement entered into force on January 1 of this year.
During the meeting, the head of the city recalled the environmental month that began today in the capital, noting that all residents of the city should take part in the citywide subbotnik.
During the meeting, the head of state was appointed rector of the Buddhist university. Highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of inter-ethnic and inter-ethnic harmony, based on the unconditional work of Nazarbayev and the deep confidence of the people in their policies.
By the holiday, residents of each house put on various concert programs.
seminars of this purpose will be held in the future by enterprises and collectives, regardless of the forms of ownership.
therefore, temporary polling stations have been established in large cities of these countries.
therefore, today every Kazakhstani is confident that thanks to our public agreement and unity, the tasks will be successful.
Therefore, every ethnocultural center should be ruthlessly confident that this year will be held at a high level.
free medical care is also provided.
after a fierce battle in the Kharkov region, the Toleubekov division was transferred to the left bank of the Volga River.
Summing up the results of the event, in the village of International, according to the results of all competitions, team places were provided
That is, the domestic market must be filled with its own goods, this is a very important issue.
Not only students and scientists spoke in it, but also all Akmola residents who want to take part regardless of their professional activities and age.
These warehouses will allow for up to 3 years to store under customs control any goods of companies and individuals imported from abroad, without paying customs duties and taxes and without applying non-tariff regulation measures, the report said.
In 2009, on the basis of a special decree, we decided to issue such certificates to only 1% of voters.
all these agreements will promote entrepreneurship.
these funds come to the rescue when it is necessary to quickly take any measures, "the minister said.
During the charity event, 27 million 825 thousand tenge will be spent on repair works at the expense of sponsorship funds.
drip irrigation technology also yields results.
Here, the necessary information systems are combined, providing services for submitting documents as soon as possible for gasification of various facilities and housing.
this increased energy efficiency in Kazakhstan by 18-19%.
overhaul was carried out only in certain sections of the pipeline.
Such mass sporting events are regularly organized in military units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The issues raised in the document coincide with the new economic policy of "Nұr zhol" and the tasks indicated in the political doctrine of the party "Nұr Otan," "said the Minister.
As part of this program, about a thousand Afghan citizens in peaceful specialties have been trained in Kazakhstani universities since 2010, "the report said.
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, at an expanded meeting of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the North Kazakhstan Region with the participation of the Chairman of the Presidium of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, Timur Kulibayev noted that the development of agriculture and the processing of its products will become the key to providing the region with their products.
Introduction of agricultural land into the market for efficient use.
dialogue in culture.
every citizen votes for a candidate who he likes, understands his politics, believes that he can move forward.
The main purpose of the event is to introduce and improve the qualification of emergency rescue operations.
within five years, 400 subsidization and guarantee projects under the program were approved in the region, including 152 in 2014.
our people are fully aware of this.
The identification of business leaders makes it possible to create qualification centers for the transfer of know-how.
As part of the action, participants in the motorcycle race distributed information leaflets on traffic rules to drivers.
In turn, Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin noted the similarity of the history of Kazakhstan and Belarus.
At the council meeting, a preliminary design of the residential complex was approved.
It is noted that this year there was an opportunity not only to symbolic combustion of light, but also to support projects of biological preservation of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that the delegation included leading Canadian producers of agricultural machinery and representatives of the trade and investment development department of the Manitoba government.
The upper limit of 8 million tenge can now be reduced by 30%.
As part of a charity event in the friendship house, members of ethnocultural associations held a festive evening in honor of war veterans.
Over the past four years, more than 50 entrepreneurs from Pavlodar region took part in seminars at Nazarbayev University.
During the meeting, experts discussed the course of the elections and the first results of the elections.
in particular, one of the main events of the annual meeting is the business forum.
In recent years, the fish processing industry has been actively developing.
In this regard, I would like to note that electoral processes are organized at a high level, polling station officers carry out professional and unique activities.
in total, more than 200 farmers arrived in the sowing area.
this cannot be removed, and if we want to enter the 30 developed countries of the world, then we must provide more subsidies than we receive subsidies. it is necessary that our agricultural producers have not lost the competition to their foreign counterparts .
at first, he, like me, studied at a communications school.
this is also beneficial from the point of view of the ties of power and society.
we were very early children who grew up during the war years.
At the same time, he noted that the hydropower of Kazakhstan accounts for 13% of the total volume, and in Kazakhstan 50% of the winds, in this regard this is a significant potential for the Caspian region, especially in comparison with other countries.
According to the document, the agreement establishes the procedure and conditions for joining the technical regulations of the customs union of the CIS countries that are not members of the customs union.
The Central Election Commission pays special attention to ensuring the electoral rights of citizens with disabilities.
the winner of the competition will receive memorable gifts for diplomas and financial certificates.
on this day, despite the difficult difficulties in the steam wall, the efforts and courage of women were noted, who preserved African culture and brought it to the next generation.
educating young people on the example of the exploits of representatives of the older generation, who today gave a peaceful life.
more than 180 books and periodicals are presented here.
similar opinion is held by representatives of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
The heads of state expressed the hope that the efforts of all parties to ensure the peace process will contribute to resolving the crisis in Ukraine.
The widespread use of this payment method is the beginning of the application of this system in second-level banks. growing payments are basically because of migrating the payment service to the second-tier banks and to kazakhstan center for inter-bank settlements ( kcis ) .
the total volume of the mining industry decreased by 16.5%.	to date , the total amount of kazakhstanis involved in industry sphere exceeds one million people ,  the head of state added .
they had to compensate only 13% of the needs of the population of the region.
we should all be happy.
During the seminar, the international expert presented the basic principles of talent management in the public and private sectors and the best experience in this field.
When three children gathered from all sides, formed an army and went to war, not a single enemy could stand it.
Nowadays, the Orthodox community continues its prayer tradition.
this is another step towards making the judicial system more accessible and provides continuous access in this direction.
The European Central Bank (eob), fearing deflation, reduced the interest rate on the loan to 0.05%.
Most importantly, on November 11, 2014, the message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "The Way to a Bright Future" was published.
1289 students study in an educational institution with a total area of ​ ​ 7930.4 m2.
all granaries were loaded by 52.6%, the Ministry of Agriculture reported.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan teams take part in such competitions for the second time.
In this regard, it was decided to discuss issues of combating corruption in the judicial system in an expanded composition of participants and to identify measures to improve the effectiveness of work in this direction.
In his speech, he noted that the main potential for the development of the region is human capital, including the share of student youth:
information on the legalization of citizens and the location of the commission will also be transmitted through radio rooms in trading houses and markets.
this applies to scientific research in the field of the agro-industrial complex.
the Soviet Union collapsed, the people no longer knew what would happen.
As the director of the public fund for the life of a man nurbek noted, a mobile phone differs from others in large letters and numbers.
therefore, lawyers should also conduct conciliation procedures with the provision of legal aid.
Thus, as a result of their optimization, 127 out of 136 existing educational institutions carry out educational activities.
in this regard, the author appealed to Nursultan Nazarbayev to participate in the forthcoming elections.
emergency situations decreased three times, there were no capacity restrictions, which was positively affected by warm weather.
certification consists of exams taken in several stages.
In accordance with the order of the intelligentsia, the participants had to prepare an author's industry program.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan supports the appeal to the President on holding early presidential elections in 2015.
the Kazakh side gave concrete answers to the questions of German businessmen.
in addition, competitions will be held "dreamed profession," "from heart to heart," from good to unity, "the spirit of the nation."
wishing to visit Kazakhstan, the patriarch vicar, bishop of Ploesti Varlaam confirmed the high participation of the leadership of the Romanian Orthodox Church in the work of the V Congress.
the meeting considered labour relations in some regions of the country, measures to prevent social tension and ensure labor rights and social protection of workers.
The head of state noted and congratulated everyone who came to the meeting.
According to him, this institute will comprehensively solve such issues as the difficult social situation in the family, the disability of the adopted child or, conversely, the poor health of nursing families, the inability of family members to find work.
Scientists of the PRC with great pleasure listened to the report of the researcher of the Kht, Professor Bakhyt Euzhenkhanula, devoted to the study of the history of the Kazakh Khanate, and asked questions about the question of interest to them.
Kazakhstan is a successfully developing state, one of the leaders of the post-Soviet space, but there are even greater tasks ahead of us.
my father was an example to me, unfortunately, now he is not.	as she told she is indebted her parents for her success	0,50
the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Russian Federation drew attention in his welcome address to the marat crown.	the basis of this success is in the strategic planning of socio-economic policy .	0,50
solution discharge depth 3.8 meters, diameter 1.2 meters.	after the melting and complete quality control by the experts of the technical control department , the bars are sent to the branding zone .	0,50
The introduction of annual public reports of heads of public authorities to the public on the achievement of important indicators of strategic plans and programmes for territorial development and the posting of their reports on official websites.	95 . introduction of annual public statements by heads of state agencies on achieving key objectives and publication of their reports on official websites .	0,50
Kazakhs in this artistic way decorated ceremonial clothes, headdresses, household items of reputable people.	according to the author , spun gold embroidery has ancient roots .	0,50
in particular, he visited the republican ski base and the Burabay in Shorts golf club.
the soldiers participating in the parade in the field camp were satisfied with the initiative of the comrades.
however, the privatization of their assets was postponed to 2016.
in particular, the chief of the joint headquarters of the lieutenant general, Alexander the student, noted the high level of organization of the Kazakh military.
the main objective of the bill is to ensure the accessibility of service facilities in society of equal opportunities for the integration and residence of persons with disabilities, to improve the mechanisms for the provision of services in the field of adaptation, the inaccessible part of the population and the main spheres of life of persons with disabilities.
the total weight of the plant is 10,800 tons, on which all conditions for workers are created.
Our parliament also intends to gradually improve friendly relations, which have continued for a long time, "said a.tleikhan.
To date, the prosecutor's office has received three applications related to the electoral process.
at the same time, the military officers carry out this procedure with great respect.
In this regard, a situational scheme, a situational master plan with an indication of the territory of the monument is located.
he is a world-class man consulted by leaders of other countries.
More than 30 events have been held by all ethno-cultural representatives to disseminate the State language widely.
a medical special train began its work in the Saxaul village of the Ostrovsky district.
for this we have created a special fund.
children with disabilities themselves performed at the concert, who, despite their disability, are very talented when they dance and sing poetry.
sixty people also found work at three sites.
In addition, the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Justice of Hungary approved an agreement between the two countries on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases.
- on election day, in the polling station or in the polling station, they officially warn of responsibility for the request for public opinion, - said in a statement.
a comprehensive study of the introduction of sales tax in lieu of value added tax.
and the large number of voters testifies to the conscious vote of the population and their firm confidence in the head of state and the radical support for the course received by the president.
especially among them can be noted agriculture and the transport and transport industry.
And in 2014, 169.0 million tenge was spent from the regional budget, the memorial complex in the Kobdinsky district was repaired, the Eset kokiula Memorial Complex in the Ablekebi district was started, and the construction of the Abulkhair Khan memorial complex began.
In addition, the company plans to build heavy drilling rigs in Kazakhstan for drilling wells at a depth of more than 5 thousand meters.	also they successfully carry out such works in western siberia , and stavropol region in russia ,  he explained .
It is expected that from 2015 to 2016 this project will be implemented in 6 schools in the country, "the press release said.
relics chronologically belong to the period from the Stone Age to the 19th century.
Last year, a new record for world oil demand was set - 92.5 million barrels per day.	the event brought together representatives from more than 70 companies from kazakhstan , canada , the netherlands , russia , uzbekistan , belarus , france , uk , germany .	0,51
The head of the region also noted that work will continue to further strengthen Kazakhstan's unique model of social harmony, the importance of opening friendship houses this year in the warm, Zaysan, coconut, Urjar regions.	we must open the friendship houses in ayaguz , zaisan , kokpekty , urdzhar villages ,  - the governor said .
However, an analysis of the results of field work last year shows that many enterprises completed the necessary work on time.
the commission prepared the concept of the council of the authorized body.
The main feature of the event this year is the free participation of every Kazakhstani.
Company members noted the need to improve the quality of education in developing the competitiveness of the nation.
According to the minister, important, complex negotiations should be held on the Caspian Sea.
In the region, more than a thousand individual entrepreneurs transfer their work in the field of veterinary medicine.
This year we left the quota at the same level, "the minister said.
"A lot depends on you.
after that, I decided to write a book.
in addition to military exercises, the military will master search and rescue exercises on the sea surface.
In order to create a healthy lifestyle, sports facilities were provided for the benefit of rural residents.
the capacity of the small experimental complex at the Saryadyr coalfield at Erementau is 0.8 tons per day.
Today we ask you to take part in the presidential election, because you are the key to stability and peace in the country, the authors write.
2015 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of domestic engineering, including the creation of cars, helicopters and passenger cars, in 35 from the national fund, including for the production of cars - 20 billion tenge, for the creation of helicopters - 10 billion tenge, for the production of passenger cars - 5 billion tenge, "said M. Kusainov.
We, who occupy the third place at the world university games in the Spanish city of Granada, try to improve this result in our homeland.
according to him, mechanisms should be created to predict the future value of the company.
Until today, in 29 microdistrict there was neither a kindergarten nor a mini-center.
According to representatives of the competent census authorities, from January to February the number of births amounted to 6.5%. the number of births in january - february was 63 , 5 thousand people , which is 1,5 % less .
According to him, every citizen of the country has the opportunity to contribute to the implementation of reforms.
In addition, the meeting discussed the implementation of such projects as the construction of highways and the creation of air power transmission systems and comprehensive measures to support domestic producers.
this time, effective bilateral decisions were adopted, following which the relevant draft protocols were prepared for signature at the next meeting of the supreme council.
Recall that recently a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Governor's Office of the region and the Republic of Bashkortostan.
there are promising gas ores in the region that need to be used.
This year, leading doctors of the Korean clinic will come to Kazakhstan, who will perform complex operations for free, "the report said.
As you know, the time for the presidential and parliamentary elections next year coincides.
because paper has its time.
machine gun crew commander Mikhail didenko witnessed the first combat battle in the battalion of the 92nd Infantry Division of the 31st battalion, which took place in the city of Molodechno, after which he participated in the liberation of the city of Pukhovichi as part of the 3rd Belorussian Front.
supporters and candidates visited the fields and met with the public.
The event was organized by Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, Institute of Rg Economics, Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, Union of Commodity Producers of Russia.
the government should work effectively, clearly, it should legally monitor the activities of local executive bodies, "he said.
This center is primarily designed to improve the health of residents of Karaganda region and neighboring regions. this center was built primarily for the health care of the residents .
Along with active activities aimed at supporting social and charitable projects, Kazakhmys is actively involved in promoting and supporting the cultural heritage of the country and the Kazakh language.	on april 9 , kazakh state academic theatre for children and youth named after g.musrepov the ceremony of awarding the winners was held .	0,51
12 new industrial facilities were commissioned outside the industrialization map.	they produced industrial products in the amount of 200 billion tenge .	0,51
in one of the enemy battles, a front-line soldier was wounded in the left leg.	the soldier was a lot of counter-offensive battles , during one of which he injured his left leg .	0,51
noted the effective work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, headed by the head of state, taking into account the interests of thousands of Polish diasporas.	he stressed that the interests of thousands of polish diaspora fully taken into account , which indicates the effectiveness of the apk .	0,51
the structure of crop production is characterized by high annual fluctuations in production.	i would like to note the structure of crop farms will be characterized by high annual production jumps .	0,51
recall that inogate is one of the longest-term technical assistance programs in the field of energy funded by ERO.	the inogate is one of the most long-term technical assistance programs in the energy sector , funded by the european union ; the program was launched in 1996 and operates within the framework of the baku initiative and the eastern partnership .	0,51
at the final stage of the aitys - akans, Zaitullaevtsy rope, alibek sergeev and bolatbek orazbay pairs.	the themes of the improvisation of the akyns were friendship of the people of kazakhstan and interethnic harmony .	0,51
The presentation of the film was actively discussed among the Spanish public.	the presentation of the documentary film  the forgotten in karaganda " has received wide publicity .
5th Interreligious Congress with. The participation of the abdullah will make an important contribution to the intellectual piggy bank of the forum, will lay a solid foundation for strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and Malaysia in the field of promoting universal peace and tolerance and mutual understanding.
Nadezhda Gorbacheva volunteered for the front and participated in battles on the Ukrainian front.
Veterans of the rear met guests of the Kamyshan iness Vladimirovna and sviridenko Alexandra Mikhailovna with bright medals on the back and chest.
It is noted that initially work is carried out only on fields in Kazakhstan.
in response, they put soil in a capsule in which the blood of Kazakhstani soldiers was buried.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs noted that the formation of this union is currently underway.
the introduction of per capita funding in high schools, the creation of a system of incentives for successful schools.
this is a very important unique document that comprehensively covers the activities of trade unions, "said A. Kusainov.
speaking about the level of work of city administrations. Dzhaksybekov criticized the lack of systematic work in the transport logistics of the capital, the poor quality of informing the townspeople.
In turn, the participants of the forum of athletes expressed support for sports of the younger generation, wide access and openness of sports facilities in the republic.
Three best jobs have been selected in each region.
Of these, 13 people are employed through the employment center.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, entrepreneurship is dynamically developing in the region.
the progress of operational verification is controlled by the leadership of the collective security treaty organization.
In total, it is planned to organize 4,500 events in the region with the participation of 500,000 people.
at the same time, the speaker of the majilis did not ignore the priorities of the Eurasian Economic Union.
special legislation would stimulate the development of organic farming and ensure that it meets the requirements for it at the international level. "
a public council consisting of members of the public and business structures has also been established.
The forum is held with the support of the Department of Tourism Industry of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and Akimat of Akmola region.
The total crime detection rate in the region is 65%.	we need to maximize the use of condominium .	0,51
in a large exhibition hall, cultural objects of each people are presented.	there are the objects of culture and life of different peoples in a large exhibition hall .	0,51
According to the ministry, within the framework of the regional forum on local content, a signing ceremony was held.	the signing of the documents held in the framework of the regional forum on local content .	0,51
the time has come to make this fund necessary.	this will secure the implementation of projects in the food and chemical industries , engineering , as well as the service sector .	0,51
It is expected that negotiations will be held with the President of China Xi Jinping, who will visit Kazakhstan on an official visit.	in addition , it is expected to hold talks with chinese president xi jinping , who arrives with a state visit .	0,51
in this regard, the question of the holding of elections was raised in a timely manner, as it provides an additional mandate for the implementation of all these measures.	in this context , the elections will be timely , as it will provide an additional mandate to implement all these measures .	0,51
The head of the Kazakh delegation expressed confidence that the international exercises of rescue services of the Shu member states, which are planned to be held in Kazakhstan in June, will make a significant contribution to strengthening the system of taking measures in emergency situations of civil security.	the head of the kazakh delegation expressed confidence that the international exercises of rescue services of sco member states will make a significant contribution to strengthening emergency response and civil protection .	0,51
According to him, topics have not yet been revealed in our art.	as the people 's artist noted there a lot of non covered topics in the art .	0,51
Next month we will publish the financial results of our activities and inform about the progress in the construction of bozshakol and aktogai mines, "said Oleg Novachuk, chairman of the mineral gas management board.
also in one teenager, a puberty defect was revealed, in another - ichthyosis.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the director noted that the question of filming in this direction arose during a meeting with the famous athlete.
The cost of the Pavlodar MZ project is $1 billion 218 million, commissioning is scheduled for the end of 2016.
Raised 5 children, a pathetic mother.
proof of this is the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Sports and Physical Culture Asar Yessimov congratulated the veteran on the New Year, wished him good health and longevity.
there are also gifts specially assigned to them.
On this day, a festive concert dedicated to Defender of the Fatherland Day will take place.
more than 130 troops of this category are involved in the gathering.
Because no matter how many specialists we train, there are not enough medical specialists in the country.
a teacher training course was organized here through world approaches based on constructive training.
According to him, especially for the 70th anniversary, a youth social assistance team "Assistance to Veterans" will be created, which will help veterans in need of help.
In preparation for the operational audit developed by the ATO headquarters, the border situation in Afghanistan worsened, the collective security treaty organization decided to deploy a collective rapid response force.
Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Talgat Mukhtarov noted the importance of timely adoption of personnel decisions, holding a meeting of the visiting commission of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan on monitoring the implementation of anti-corruption legislation in the armed forces.
In his message, the head of state gave specific instructions to continue work to support small and medium-sized businesses and business activities.
many came to vote with families.
The President was shown the acquired gas buses and eco-taxis in order to modernize the public transport sector of Almaty and improve the environmental situation.
and will increase the reliability and stability of the unified electric grid system of Kazakhstan.
Thanks to the donation and donation of such family exhibits to the museum, many of the world's leading museums have replenished and replenished their funds.
The event commemorated World Consumer Protection Day, which has been celebrated internationally since 1983.
After returning to his homeland in 1946, he worked in the education and party bodies, in 1979 he retired.
Of course, the elected khan must leave the kind of rulers.	during the meeting the leaders , sultans , the old members of the dynasty choose one , who is worthy of the throne .	0,51
The performance of the Kazakhstan troupe today is an indicator of cultural cooperation.	the fact that the kazakh ballet company today is performing here is an indicator of cultural partnership .	0,51
16 of them were approved, 9 were not approved and 2 drafts were removed from the agenda for certain reasons.	also sports school , a kindergarten for 280 places in the residential area  priozersky-3 , " the youth house , the projects of the districts ' detailed planning .
there are no points as a pavilion creation.
In the village of Novik, Talgar district, students who had previously studied in three shifts began their studies in a new auxiliary school from the fourth quarter.
By agreement with the Dutch company, the harmful balance will decrease four times. Deputy Governor of the region Galiy Yeskaliyev said.
according to him, the main task of the first five-year plan was to stop the deindustrialization of the country, the purpose of which was to stop the trends that impede the growth of the processing industry, and this was achieved.
In order to broaden the international legal framework for combating crime, the Attorney General's Office works with foreign partners to conclude international treaties on criminal proceedings on an ongoing basis.
such a rule has now been excluded.
the ceremony was opened by the commander of the airmobile troops, Major General Daulet ospans.
in episodes, along with archival frames, visual effects with 2d and 3d graphics are used.
K.Zhakupov said that the opportunities of the Eurasian Union can be used to bring together the interests of the two countries.
The signing of the agreement on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases was the result of the visit of the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan ad.auylbaev.
The head of the region took part in the opening of a sports and cultural complex in the city of Kaskelen.	governor of the region visited the opening of a sports and cultural complex in the kaskelen city .	0,51
road signs are installed on damaged sections of roads and alternative travel is organized.	on damaged road sections traffic signs were installed and alternative movement was organized .	0,51
also at this meeting, it was proposed to create a working group consisting of experts from the National Bank and the NPP for the timely implementation of initiatives by the National Bank. it is important to work out the issue of improving the legislation in this area in order to eliminate the pressure on businesses , to create legal protection of business from intervention of state officials in the business processes , " - said timur kulibayev .
this is important for maintaining occupational safety and improving workplace productivity.
expansion of the facility is necessary due to an increase in passenger traffic at the Ural airport.
In addition, akim inspected the project of the road connecting the streets of Muratbaev.
the doctor of unconventional oriental medicine and specialist in massage business Vitaly teaches himself knowledge and qualifications in this area.
During 2015-2016, 180 billion tenge will be additionally allocated to finance the construction of rental housing.
The main task is to turn the Nauryzbay district into one of the most modern and comfortable districts in Almaty, where there is a full opportunity, we are starting to build the first boilers, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Children 9-13 years old, orphans and children left without parental care gathered on the Christmas tree and gladly saw the congratulatory speech of the head of state on the video.
in working with personnel, they should be able not only to improve the professional skills of each soldier, but also to build a psychologically healthy environment, consolidate the team as a single team.
knowledge of officers on the requirements of regulatory legal acts and psychological testing.
a modern American sprinkler is installed along the potato valley.
thanks to them, we have reached today's peaceful day.
Therefore, we must take care of them, "said a representative of the youth association" Council "of Arslan Karkhans.
In addition, it is necessary to develop in the manufacturing industry, thereby using its products within the region, "said the acting head of the department of entrepreneurship and trade of the Mangistau region aidos zhumabek.
the event ended with a concert with the participation of invited guests and service members.
based on the economic situation and budgetary opportunities.
Therefore, the primary task of today's society is to educate young specialists who are able to develop innovative technologies, "the report said.
subsidizing allowances to remuneration on loan and leasing obligations of borrowers in tenge - by 7% per annum, in foreign currency - by 5%.
In this regard, the Ministry of Defense has prepared a proposal to include the scientific direction "defense and security" in the list of the national scientific council and to draw up a law aimed at solving current problems.
in the future, the subbotnik will be held twice a month.
the number of three-shift schools decreased by 22 and reached 99.
maternal and infant mortality have declined by fifty per cent over the past two years.	the building is equipped with the latest technologies and tools .	0,51
opening the ceremony, the head of the Kapshagai garrison, Lieutenant Colonel Maksut Huseynov, celebrated the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory and the Leader of the Nation - the Supreme Commander-in-Chief N.A. He emphasized the significance of the action announced at the initiative of Nazarbayev as part of the celebration of the Year of Veterans.	head of kapchagai garrison colonel maksut guseinov , having opened the official handover ceremony , noted its importance in the context of the celebration of the year of the 70th anniversary of the great victory and the year of the veteran , announced by the initiative of the kazakh president- supreme commander .	0,51
Today, KSP Holding continues to search for and develop new approaches to the training of highly qualified specialists for domestic production, "said Kuribekov.
nowadays, the difference between the role of women in society is rapidly growing.	the head of state noted that our countrywomen succeed to double-job as mothers and professionals .	0,51
in this competition, the Kazakhstani crew took second place.	the kazakh team of soldiers took the second placement in the competition .	0,51
In order to record the monuments, registration, certification of iron, crow, March region, Aktobe city and its rural districts, as well as sas planet were organized. "
The World Championship in Northern Disciplines among juniors will be held from February 1 to 8.
On New Year's Eve, from December 26 to December 30, a nationwide unique action of the President of Kazakhstan will be held to support veterans of the Great Patriotic War throughout the country.
in particular, the ECE Regulation approved a methodology for the calculation of consolidated forecasts of the demand and supply of the organization's member countries for basic agricultural goods and foodstuffs.
The head of the regional statistics department analyzed the main statistical indicators of our happy visit zone.
without leaving without respect mothers who did not come to this gathering.
The meeting was attended by a member of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the competition is to widely disseminate this practice and to widely inform the general public about the implemented projects on energy efficiency technologies.
According to the Governor's office, large-scale events are aimed at creating a world-class tourist center.
Communication between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan provides for joint work on the preparation of draft regulatory legal acts related to the interests of private entrepreneurs, as well as equal participation of the parties in working groups and joint projects.
The capacity of the equipment will allow you to organize a mini-mill inside the school.
during the reception, a video message was shown about the main achievements of our country.	the participants highly appreciated development of our country , modern and competent policy of astana city on effective addressing the geopolitical and economic problems under the guidance of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .	0,51
During the forum participants exchanged views.	an extensive exchange of views among participants was held within the forum .	0,51
1,500 people took part in the exit polls.	more than 1,500 people were involved in organizing and conducting exit poll .	0,51
By the end of 2015, it is planned to bring this figure to 77%.	the industrial output amounted to 537.3 billion tenge ,  he said .
there will be twice as much personnel and military equipment.
The veteran was born in 1926 in the village of Tolengit, Mindykarinsky district, Kostanay region.
One of the directions is the strengthening of the institution of a business ombudsman in order to protect the interests of entrepreneurs.
we must move to a career model of public service, take honest, talented, trained citizens into public service, "he said. Nazarbayev.
According to representatives of the Governor's Office of the region, his deputy Yerlan Aukenov gave specific instructions to carry out relevant work on concluding long-term agreements with national companies to create the broadest possible conditions for employment of the population and workers.
meat production increased by 4.5%, egg production doubled.
Voting in the presidential elections began at 7-00 am metropolitan time and will last until 20-00 pm.
Overhaul of central streets, reconstruction of water supply networks of the village will also be carried out.
In general, the agenda of the meeting will be a large package of bills.
natural gas production increased by 4.6% to 543.5 million cubic meters.
kazakhstan geology forum, oil & gas international forum brought together representatives of more than 70 companies of Kazakhstan, Canada, the Netherlands, Russia, Uzbekistan, Belarus, France, Great Britain, Germany.
The flag ceremony was attended by soldiers of military units, students and veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the purpose of the collection is to increase the knowledge, skills, skill of military personnel, as well as to exchange experience among sergeants.
this railway area is of great importance.	in general the length of the new way is about 14 kilometers .	0,52
in particular, a draft agreement on the methodology for the formation of an indicative (draft) balance of oil, oil products and gas prepared for the implementation of articles 80-104 of this Agreement within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union was approved.	in particular , the draft agreement on the formation of methodology of indicative balance of gas , oil and petroleum products within the eurasian economic union was approved .	0,52
They also did their job, since the hospital on the railway provides dressing rooms, treatment rooms and an operating unit with small surgical operations.	digital fluorography machine instantly gives the patient an x-ray of the hand , and the results will not make to wait .	0,52
One of the collections contains a list of military camps located in Kazakhstan. it 's hard to overestimate the feat of people who brought us this victory .
before that, the villagers were obliged to go to the regional center.
In particular, it is planned to extend the route of the Istanbul-Almaty container train and organize unhindered movement to China.
In addition, by the decision of the district maslikhat, elderly front-line soldiers were awarded the title "Honorary Citizen of the Zhalagash District."
As for agriculture, in terms of gross output, the region occupies 4th place in the republic.
During this time, about 60 complaints were received.
You have great respect for what he can behave.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the French side.
daily residents prefer to receive public services on their own.
Its activities include advising the population on many issues.
products from this lamp were made in the 14th century by order of the emir from Isfahani izz al-din ibn taj al-din in the mausoleum of khoja-ahmet yassaoui.
all dtmo tools provide daily operation of the system;
In turn, Vytautas nauduzhko stressed the importance of strengthening ties in various areas.
The international exhibition ndt russia 14 is a platform in which large Russian and foreign designers participate.
During the meeting, the Prosecutor General of Dubai on behalf of the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan was given an official invitation to visit Kazakhstan this year.	according to the ministry of foreign affairs , the uae side was handed the official invitation of the prosecutor general of kazakhstan a. daulbayev to visit kazakhstan this year .	0,52
at the end of the event. participated in the award ceremony of the winners of the British Weightlifting Championship.	besides , i. ilyin participated in award ceremony of the winners of the britain student championship .	0,52
Housing financing by private investors.	in addition , a unique agro-industrial complex will be built .	0,52
Following the meeting of the council, the members of the advisory committee approved the draft agreement.	following the discussion , the members of the advisory committee approved the draft agreement .	0,52
huge funds are needed to restore eastern Ukraine, the president said.
at the end, the mercel wished success to the responsible activities of the President of Kazakhstan in the direction of further realization of the set tasks.
Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce and Economy of Romania, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Prahova Auresian Gogulescumurza region discussed ways of trade and economic development of the regional level, as well as cooperation within the framework of regional chambers of commerce and economy.
At the meeting of the EEC Council, the Kazakh side expressed support for the Kyrgyz to become members.
The head of state proposed five popular reforms necessary for the common man.
"We have every opportunity to do that," he said.
aa. As Idrissov noted, the results of the vote clearly showed that the people actually support the leader of the nation, his stability policy and the comprehensive and decisive development of the country for many years.
The most senior participants of the event held a ceremony of presenting wooden seedlings, which, in turn, was evidence that the noble cause continues from generation to generation.
In addition, graduates of universities and colleges will be able to collect their first experience by performing experienced work for young people.
For the past 60 years, we have been living in residential buildings founded in the 1950s.	zhandarbek malibekuly offered to change the town planning concept .	0,52
today the plant actively concludes agreements with peasant farms.	at this stage , the plant is actively signing contracts with farmers .	0,52
the number of administrative cases decreased by 8.9%, such cases - 27,901.	the administrative cases were 27,901 .	0,52
now documents can be handed over without an electronic declaration and documents confirming information.	now filing is possible without electronic declarations and documents confirming the information .	0,52
This issue was discussed in detail by representatives of the National Defense University, generals who are well aware of military education and the peculiarities of service, like the Bakytzhan Ertaev and Abai Tasbulats.	there were deputies who know about the features of the service and the military education firsthand : generals bakhytzhan yertayev and abay tasbulatov .	0,52
a bright path for all. "
The rally was organized in order to reduce the consequences of accidents involving child passengers, to increase the effectiveness of preventive work of child traffic injuries in the city of Astana.
there were prerequisites for an innovative environment, social spheres - leaders were identified. "
A. Ashimov was awarded the Order of Friendship of the 1st degree for valiant work in art
today we have a VAT refund business.
r. According to Sarsenbayeva, the key to the success of each woman is hard work, bringing to the end the work begun to achieve the goal.
improvement work is one of the most pressing issues for our city.	currently the state renders significant support to the economy 's private sector .	0,52
This group has developed a general principle of work with the participation of Kazakhstani representatives, which will function on the territory of the EEO, - said E. Zelinsk.
The sides discussed the expansion of trade and economic ties in the priority sectors of the economy, noted their prospects in connection with the accession of Kyrgyzstan to the EAEU.
Within the program it is planned to attract 6 trillion tenge of private investments.
in Karaganda, for the participants of the parade, they chose an atelier for sewing work clothes.
participants were congratulated by the Commander-in-Chief of the Air Defense Forces, Major General Aviation Nurlan Ormanbets and the Chief of the General Staff, Major General Marat Uashpayev.
The best performers will take part in the republican festival of patriotic songs.
military courage and hard work in the rear became the basis of victory.
to date, it is possible to increase pharmaceutical production by at least 3.5 times, its share in GDP in each state does not exceed 0.5%. today there is a real opportunity to increase production by at least 3.5 times and increase our pharmaceutical industry .
this is front-line, military transport, army aviation.
summed up the meeting of Governor of Almaty region a. B. Katalov.
active youth, together with the Kazakh ribbon of victory, bypassed the streets of the city of Kokshetau, and also distributed the ribbon and breastplates "May 9 - Victory Day" to residents and guests of the city.
these days, festive events will be held in all regional centers and rural areas.
As the head of state noted for the first time, this year should be a vivid reflection of the unity of the people for nations with a common historical fate.
The Office of Religious Affairs has more than 1,000 employees.
They thanked mothers and women for showing such respect.
he also noted that the development of competition is one of the most important tasks and restrictions on the activities of natural monopolies and the markets regulated by them and state interference in entrepreneurial affairs.
more precisely, the project to create a logistics center for the sale of products in Kazakhstan for the company hp.
Akims of Sayan, Karatal districts and Kapchagai reported on preparatory measures for the heating season of 2015-2016.
More than a thousand teenagers organized a solemn procession "I am a patriot of Kazakhstan" from the street of the capital to the square of the republic.
We sincerely congratulate you on the spring holiday, the beginning of the year with March.
We aim to form a good image, "said Governor of the Yarkai region Askarbek nsimbayev.
It is noted that in the region there are enterprises for the production of Kazakh food products.
According to the Department of Statistics of East Kazakhstan region, as of January 1, 2014, there are 1,053 boys per 1000 girls, while girls aged 0-4 years are less than boys.
Recall that in Taldykorgan the rectors and future grantees arrived at the ceremony of signing a memorandum and awarding certificates with the Governor of Almaty region.
of these, 17.3 billion tenge should be allocated for the construction of educational facilities, including primarily for the elimination of emergency schools and three-level education.	among them 17.3 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of educational facilities , firstly to eliminate three-shift education and emergency schools .	0,52
In recent years, exports of fish products have been growing.	also the volume of exports of fish products has increased .	0,52
the meeting was built on understanding, constructive dialogue.	also they discussed the possibility of concluding bilateral agreements in this sphere .	0,52
Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea expressed confidence that relations and cooperation between the DPRK and Kazakhstan will expand and develop in accordance with the wishes and aspirations of the peoples of the two countries.	chairman of the presidium of the supreme people 's assembly of the korean democratic people 's republic k.nam expressed confidence that cooperation between north korea and kazakhstan will be expanded .	0,52
in addition, the mayor noted the importance of modernizing energy sets and systematically reconstructing obsolete heat sources.	the mayor noted the important significance in achieving a positive result of systematic work on the modernization of the energy complex and reconstruction of worn-out heating .	0,52
In his letter, the author notes that he is professionally engaged in classical music and already in these 16 years has copyright for a number of works.	the 16-year-old author of the letter informed he does classical music professionally and has a copyright for a number of works .	0,52
At the tree planting ceremony, the Governor of the region delivered a welcoming speech to the battles and noted that on the first day of spring it is necessary to regularly conduct such good initiatives.	taldykorgan - our common home , so it should be a comfortable , well-groomed and beautiful , and such actions have contributed significantly to this .	0,52
the order and medals in his life are witnesses to his combat feat.	after the front she worked in semiozernyi court and in the children 's orphanage in kushmurun .	0,52
There are proposals regarding the region, such as paying taxes by business entities, lowering electricity and gas prices, distributing state subsidies in the event of a change in course.	they reflect the important issues taking into account the specific of the region : under the determination of the taxable base of businesses not to take into account the income from the export of manufactured products , to provide the government subsidies to the exporting enterprises with currency fluctuations , to consider lowering the tariffs for electricity and gas , the introduction of incentives for vat enterprises producing goods for export , reducing the railway tariffs for transportation of the production in kazakhstan .	0,52
The event will be attended by domestic and foreign investors and financial institutions.	the forum annually signed by dozens of memoranda on cooperation .	0,52
English will become the official language on the territory of the financial center.	it will become an official language on the territory of the financial center .	0,52
all residents know how objectively the presidential election was held.	all the civilian population wants to know how objectively presidential elections are held	0,52
today's visit showed that Kazzinc LLP and the Maleevsky mine have great prospects. " Akhmetov.
The campaigning work of candidates is also carried out in accordance with their specific goals and objectives.
Also, Akmola region approved a comprehensive plan for the celebration of anniversary holidays, including the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The President of the Senate noted the international activities in the field of health within the framework of the pair, in particular, achievements in the fight against the infectious ebola virus.
such seminars are conducted by local precinct election commissions by members of territorial election commissions.
At the opening, the head of the tourism department of the region, Sh.Batyrkhanov, noted that the Borovoye zone has become a platform for the implementation of large projects.
We believe that today's event is a special manifestation of the anniversary.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
a museum was built to preserve cultural heritage.
It is noted that the implementation of these projects will increase the export potential of the region and the competitiveness of agricultural producers.
some change the positions of heads elected by election.
To solve the problems and current issues facing the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, a special public council is being created and functioning with the participation of leaders of ethnocultural associations.
As a result, military sailors, assessing the scale of the competition, increase their skill in everyday exercises in order to demonstrate high professionalism, physical strength and endurance, as well as continuously overcome new heights.
In Kazakh society, Khan's elections are one of the greatest holidays of the nation.	the election of a khan begins with the convention of summit .	0,52
Today, 10 are commissioned a multi-storey residential building (466 apartments), a two-room 7 house built in the village of Kyzylzharma, with a total of 17 houses.	10 multi-storey buildings and seven houses at a halves are planned to be commissioned in kyzylzharma village .	0,52
another thing is that the volumes of oil imported from the Russian Federation exceed the previous ones, which, of course, affects our oil refineries.
attracting strategic investors to develop milk and dairy production.
In order to comply strictly with the provisions of the Constitution, two elections should be held at different times.
glass production requires more electricity, and its processing is not so simple, especially since it is no less harmful to the environment.
In addition, as the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, K. Tokayev thanked the Indian representative for many years of support for the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
Today, the implementation of a number of large areas for the formation of the Mangistau region as a regional hub in southwestern Kazakhstan has begun.	today mangystau region is a transport and logistics hub , which connects kazakhstan with the arabia gulf countries and europe , contributing to the promotion of kazakhstan 's exports to world markets .	0,52
In 8 leading colleges, an element of dual learning has been introduced.	total there are 33 thousand students .	0,52
Along with Kazakh rescuers, representatives of Norway, Bulgaria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan take part in the courses.	may 27-28 , the military unit no . 26237 of the national guard , and the territories of  carlsberg kazakhstan " llp will hold special tactical exercises on the theme : " implementation of rescue operations in the outbreak spread of radiation and chemicals . "
Given that the processes of state development are clearly reflected through statistics, in which industry this issue requires accuracy.
The legislation of the country provides for the possibility of granting the right to vote to voters who are outside their seat in any polling station within the republic.
In this regard, we are confident in the full support of the Ministry of Investment and Development, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
In the same row, work is systematically underway to organize and supervise the provision of veterans with health-improving measures, utilities, receiving one-time material assistance and other social benefits, "the report said.
- Today there are 3 railway routes between the two countries.
Ilya Marchenko was born on August 2, 1925 in the city of Volodarsk, Kokshetau region.
Bulandynsky district court in Akmola region also took 1st place.
I come to Kazakhstan for the second time, and I can say with complete confidence that everything regarding the elections is going on at a good level. i can confidently note that the elections are on a high level .
we need to consider the draft code of civil procedure, all reforms are aimed at achieving concrete successes in the development of the country.
now members of the precinct election commission have begun counting votes.
I think it's time for us to prove ourselves both in the field of education and in vocational education.
these records indicate that the lamps were made by an Isfahan master on the orders of the Emir of Iron.
Nauryz is the cultural heritage of ancestors, uniting all Turkic-speaking peoples, symbolizing the world of values ​ ​ of Turkic culture.
in addition, health organizations are equipped with modern and high-tech equipment.
The Vice Minister separately noted the possibilities of Kazakh-Austrian cooperation, in particular, the creation of joint ventures.
We must direct public opinion against corruption. " dossans.
Director General of the Association of Belarusian Insurers Alzhanov and Vice President of the All-Russian Union of Insurers Dmitry Kuznetsov also took part in the signing ceremony.
After the Chairman of the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan announced at the ceremony that in accordance with Article 42 of the Constitution, the President of Kazakhstan will officially take office from the moment of taking the oath to the people of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev solemnly took the oath, putting his right hand on our law.
During the discussion, participants and guests got acquainted with the recommendations for holding anniversary events.
pharmaceutical inspectors include pharmacies, pharmacy warehouses, drug production organizations, health organizations that conduct preclinical research and clinical research on medicines, "the committee said.
the main task is to ensure that ordinary people are not affected by the crisis.
In addition to the law, relevant acts have been prepared to implement these norms.
Senators ratified the agreement on the termination of the activities of the Eurasian economic community, proposed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs e.dyrys.
K.Sultanov informed the head of state about several areas of legislative activity of the Majilis, consideration of the main bills and further plans.
Currently, negotiations are actively underway with Vietnam.
Last year oil and gas companies purchased goods and services in the amount of 3.1 trillion tenge, of which 1.7 trillion tenge or 54.4 percent of local content.	the forum was attended by leaders of the kazakh government agencies , such companies as tengizchevroil , karachaganak petroleum operating bv , north caspian operating company ( ncoc ) , maersk oil kazakhstan , zhayykmunaygaz , kazakhstan engineering and service companies , the ministry of energy of kazakhstan informed .	0,52
relations between Iran and Kazakhstan did not arise yesterday.	the work must be carried out at all three sites in each country .	0,52
from seven in the morning about 500 citizens of Kazakhstan came to the vote.	about 500 citizens of kazakhstan have come to vote since 7 a.m.	0,52
Office management in the state language is actively implemented.	the record management in official language is carried out actively .	0,52
Such a situation can force sowing to leave behind, "said V. Bozhko.
This year, the works of candidates were accepted until February 15, 2015.
economic associations and alliances created should not contradict each other.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, akimat of Aktobe region and industrial enterprises of the region signed a memorandum on job preservation and stabilization of production processes.
At the same time, as Zhaksylykov noted, negotiations with Vietnam ended.
during the war years, freed the distance from Moscow to Berlin from enemy hands.
conference materials are published as a scientific collection.
The head of the capital instructed to establish the work of public transport in a month.
innovative enterprises are successfully working here.
it is necessary to start with the younger generation.
the cavalry regiment, which performed the duty of a veteran, participated in the parade of soldiers alone.
However, the Russian side has reduced the number of participants in festive events related to the procession on Red Square, "the report said.
this suggests that today the number of tanks with defects in the heart is decreasing.
this proves the foresight of the policy of the Kazakh leader.
domestic business is active within the eurozone.
of course, sometimes there is a need for fundamental changes, and this is a certain solution.
this will give a great impetus to the development of winter sports in our country.
Winners of traditional ski races received memorable prizes and prizes.
then the head of the department visited the island fish processing plant.
it is made of marked relief plates and is combined into one sculpture.
of these, KZT45.6 million will be allocated to 91 students on the basis of a grant from the akim of the region on the basis of a memorandum agreed with leading universities of the republic.
thus, the population showed its civic activity.
We hope that by the summer we will have a new legal act that allows us to enter the country without a visa.
The 20th anniversary of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, the day of the country's constitution, is celebrated in a solemn atmosphere. but the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the wwii is above all .
the adoption of this document will allow customs declaration in electronic form, which will save time for customs clearance and facilitate business.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the key to transport was handed over to forestry workers by the head of the region Karim Kokrekbayev.
the mobile application will be launched in January.	to date a podcast for itunes has already done .	0,52
and the Housing Construction Savings Bank "creates a pool of buyers of white housing.
Participants of the competition were awarded diplomas, memorable gifts.
from today it is necessary to establish the use of the complex.
Heads of State also exchanged views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
He fought in the infantry as part of the 3rd Ukrainian Front under the command of General Tolbukhin.
Now train chiefs and guides learn English in special educational centers.
residents of other regions can receive free assistance through the portal of the hospitalization bureau.
At the event, a congratulatory speech of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan was read out by the Acting Chairman of the Committee for the Development of Languages ​ ​ and Socio-Political Work of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the parties agreed on close cooperation in strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey.
Kazakhstan should make the most of domestic reserves for economic growth without repeating the mistakes of other countries.
at a plenary session, the chamber agreed on the amendments and additions made by the Senate to the bill "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Natural Monopolies and Regulated Markets."
currently, work throughout Kazakhstan is in full swing.
the necessary legal framework has been created, 9 regulatory frameworks in the field of competition policy have been approved, a board of the European court has been prepared.
Astana plant for the production of polyethylene and pre-isolated polymer products
Today, the inauguration of the head of state n.nazarbayev took place in the Palace of Independence.
Also included in the draft agenda is a bill related to the ratification of the agreement of the member states of the customs union on the elimination of technical barriers in mutual trade with the member states of the commonwealth of independent states that are not member states of the customs union.
During the meeting, special-purpose fighters were briefed by a team of experienced army athletes of the Republic of Kazakhstan specializing in mountain training.
daily tests of military personnel, high energy value of porridge, taking into account increased tasks.
it will facilitate the high-quality selection and deployment of military personnel in the armed forces of the country and serve to further stimulate the professional development of military personnel.
the draft law amends article 225 of the Environmental Code regarding the regulation of relations in the field of environmental protection in the implementation of water supply and sanitation of settlements.
According to him, since 1950, more than 2600 scientific articles and dozens of books in Chinese have been published regarding the history and culture of the Kazakh people.
the level of natural depreciation of fixed assets is reduced from 68.7% to 68.5%.
On the same day, deputies of the Majilis approved bills on the ratification of extradition treaties with the countries of Bulgaria and Romania, as well as an agreement on the extradition of convicted persons with Romania.
according to the results of the project, its implementation is planned in all regions.
Specialist Coordinator for Intercultural and Public Affairs at Georgia State University.
Next year we will open the doors of a huge market that will reflect our efforts.
The main reason for success is thanks to the work of subsoil users.
At the end of the meeting, representatives of the regional education department presented certificates to the conference participants.
We urge all Kazakhstanis to support this initiative and take part in the implementation of the political course of the head of state, support the holding of early presidential elections, "said the chairman of the meat and dairy products union.
The total area of ​ ​ the sports facility is 14,853 square meters.
At the meeting, residents of the district made reports of Crimeans of the Nusupus, representatives of public organizations and doctors.
In addition, the purpose of class groups is to jointly study world experience.
According to him, in 2015 it is planned to introduce 5 more projects within the framework of muiidb.
but this is impossible, collective strength is needed here.
having overcome all the tests, he achieved great success.
we actively work on the general development of transit transportations and transport and logistic activity ", - he added.
but in the public service, different types of work.
this provides that dno operates in the order of 24x7x365, maintains uninterrupted operation and fault tolerance of software and hardware systems at the level of 99.749% and saves data from unauthorized access to the system and physical violations.
first of all, the fleet of combat vehicles remained in the memory of students.
conductor - Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since the radical beginning of the work of the EAO, our ranks have been replenished with Armenia and the accession of Kyrgyzstan.
rental apartments for young families will be built only in the regional center.
they had not been shown anywhere before.
the song of the war years was also performed.
the deputies also noted that "the role of parliament in democracy.
The population of Kazakhstan is 17,458,493 people, in the city 9661814 people, in the village 7796679 people.
The action "I sing victory" not only became a special surprise for guests and residents of the capital, but once again reminded Astana residents and all Kazakhstanis about the celebration of the anniversary.
The head of state also noted that Ukraine is close to Kazakhstan.
This year we plan to invite representatives of all regions of Kazakhstan and border regions of the Russian Federation and hold an exhibition of tourist opportunities.
The head of state noted 5 challenges at the oath-taking ceremony, which may affect several countries of the world not only in economic terms, but also in the field of stability and security. the head of state announced five external challenges that negatively affect most of the world .
In addition, a poultry farm for egg production will be launched in the village of Vednyaya in the rural district of Pavlodar.
The program introduced 258 thousand square meters of housing.
problems and ways to solve them. "
Guests of the event were able to participate in the creation and decoration of the yurt, play hot baursaki and their favorite game of childhood.
The repair of roads of regional and regional significance continues.
Athletes who will perform sports tricks in the air on a bmx bicycle will present an acrobatic show to the viewer.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, large enterprises and institutions of the city, the chairman of the center of trade union organization of Aktobe region, members of the tripartite commission, heads of state institutions were invited to sign the memorandum.
the number of emergency outages in power units of block power plants of national importance has significantly decreased.
- Development and implementation of scientific and educational programs aimed at increasing the level of knowledge of health professionals in the field of modern therapy of socially significant diseases;
I think the above projects can be coordinated within the shu.
summing up the discussion, Chairman of the Almaty City Territorial Election Commission B. Dospanov noted that "our common and main goal is to conduct this election campaign in accordance with the requirements of the electoral legislation."
In 2014, 1 exploratory well was drilled in the Zhambyl section in the Zhetysu structure, 1 exploratory well was drilled in the slide section and 2 deep wells were drilled.
among the tasks performed by commanders is not only competent management of personnel, but also the organization of a healthy moral and psychological state of military personnel during special conditional combat operations.
this year, a decision should be made to expand construction.
tapes are developed in advertising and image organizations of the city of Uralsk.
Governor of Aktau reported that Governor of Aktobe Y. Zhanbyrshin and Executive Vice President of the Assembly, Director General of the organization V.Selivanov signed an agreement on mutual obligations in organizing and holding the next xxiii session and international conference of the international assembly of capitals and major cities.
the main professional animal husbandry of the settlement with a population of about two and a half thousand people.
to date, 57.3% of subject rooms in the region are equipped with a new version.
In his message, the viewer gave a very accurate assessment of the current geopolitical situation.
published the first scientific articles on the Kazakh Khanate, since then he has written several scientific works, author's books, dissertations.
The Bahraini ruler congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his apparent victory in the presidential election and the assumption of the post of head of state, noting that this is a clear evidence of the high confidence and support of the Kazakh people.
a representative of the French defense sector met with leaders and teachers of military educational institutions and suggested considering the possibilities of training the Kazakh military in France, the press service said.
in the suburban Shortandy district, local entrepreneurs paid special attention to the low-income Goltyapin family and a mother of many children, a veteran of the rear.	local businessmen paid special attention to low-income the goltiapins ' , mother of many children v.gnatyuk , and homefront worker m. ovtcharova of suburban rural area kamyshenka .	0,53
this plan will contribute to the long-term improvement of the automotive cluster.	this plan will help improve the activity of automobile cluster of the region in the long run .	0,53
initially it was a small object specially equipped for the manufacture of stews and jams.	at first it was a small adapted room , where pelmeni and vareniki ( dumplings ) were produced .	0,53
The German diplomat noted that the document will combine regional and country approaches and Kazakhstan has contributed to their creation.	kazakhstan made the valuable contribution to its advancement , the german diplomat noted .	0,53
winners are determined by open voting on the social networking site and ortcom.kz.	the winner will be determined by open voting in in the social networks and online ortcom.kz.	0,53
it also strengthens the cultural relations of the two sides.	their performance will be broadcast live on the website of the italian theater .	0,53
in the developed countries of the world, this figure is at the level of 20-30%.	the same indicator varies from 20 % to 30 % in the developed countries .	0,53
experts say that there are no problems with the supply of fuel and lubricants.	15000 tractors , 16000 seeders and about 1100 sowing complexes will be used during the works .	0,53
Canada, Great Britain, Russia.	under the support of the samruk kazyna nwf .	0,53
Manufacturers of member countries of the EAEU have a great opportunity to present their products in another country.
the plant installed high-tech equipment that meets world standards.
Speaking about the work done by the members of the council of the assembly and ethnocultural associations, the Secretary of State noted that "the year of the assembly will achieve the main goal - to reach every citizen of Kazakhstan."
declarants will be divided into risk categories for tax control decisions.
Also, the protesters will plant Christmas trees, as well as perform stars of Kazakh pop.
So, according to the information of the Chechen-Ingush regional center, together with the Taldykorgan territorial branch of the Kurds Association, he sponsored a three-school school in the Karatal district.
In Petropavlovsk, the company plans to install another 9 stops.
The event consists of three stages.
Thus, we determine how many really percent of graduates work through pension payments, "said Balykbaev.
During the meeting, the parties agreed this year to send the newly launched Zhezkazgan-Videou railway, the potential of a rehabilitation seaport, as well as a container service route with a tariff discount through the Akhalaki-Kars railway line, to the Sino-Kazakh-Azerbaijani-Turkia.
To date, 1,823 fellows are studying in 25 countries under the President's international scholarship.
all these measures ensure long-term sustainable development.
the delegation of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan visited the helicopter factory.
More than 500 Kazakhstanis became heroes of the Soviet Union.
I am sure that these books will find their readers, "said B. Berbembekov.
the draft law amends article 225 of the Environmental Code regarding the regulation of relations in the field of environmental protection in the implementation of water supply and sanitation of settlements.
in previous programmes, there was no systemic approach in anti-corruption practice.
visitors are interested in high quality and free services.
observers noted that the leaders and members of the election commissions are open in it, they show all the data on the preparations for the election campaign.
the national holiday in Taldykorgan ends with an evening dance of youth.
According to him, the first is a review and information where young people will be informed about those who provided assistance as a result of the war, about Kazakhstan's participation in the war, about heroes from Kazakhstan.
Over the years of independence, more than 2.5 thousand kilometers of railways have been built in the country. currently , kazakhstan 's specialists developed a large-scale program to modernize the transport assets ; it covers all modes of transport .
I noticed flames in the eyes of teenagers who came to our military unit.	the day ended with demonstration performances of servicemen .	0,53
this object was applied in order to clear the coastal fortifications of the river, the bottom of the Shu River and protect nearby settlements from flooding.	the regulating hydro construction constructed for the purpose of shore protection and cleaning the bottom of the shu river and also to protect settlements from flooding .	0,53
poetry of the great Kazakh poet in the evening.	well-known works of abay will be presented to the audience during the concert .	0,53
The purpose of the event is to create conditions for the dissemination of the model of experience of the best teacher, the opportunity to train teachers, and the evaluation of mentors by international experts.
A.Baikenov was born in 1925 on the collective farm k.mark.
The Chairman of the meeting thanked the deputy corps, members of parliamentary factions of political parties, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies for successful joint work, noting that 2015 will be one of the most fruitful for Kazakhstan on the way to entering the 30 most developed countries of the world and improving the well-being of the population.
More than 1,400 development and innovation patents.
the library receives books on various branches of science with great gratitude.
Today, 8 thousand Kazakhstanis have been trained under this program.
The main idea of the exhibition is to promote the unity and harmony of a multinational society in the visual arts of Kazakhstan.
food organizations began to work in the Znamensky rural district.
it is also planned to build sports facilities and playgrounds.
An ice stadium will be built for the Universiade-2017, "the head of state said.
According to the head of the district, the admission of citizens to the public service is carried out only in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public service on a competitive basis.
the competition is held for the spiritual education of the younger generation, inclusion in classical piano art and support for the first steps in the formation of their creative ways.
but there is no logic to attribute it to Islam.
According to the press service of the Senate, the head of the upper house familiarized the guest with the legislative activities of the parliament and informed the President of the Republic N.A. Nazarbayev about the appeal adopted today in the Senate with a request to consider the appointment of early presidential elections.
The organization included district councils of the region and business women of the region.
According to the press service of the meeting, during the conversation, Chairman of the Senate of the Netherlands Anka Brokers and Speaker of the Majilis expressed satisfaction with the current problems of these areas between the two countries.
The pluralist society movement thanked the Government of Kazakhstan for its support in the negotiations.
As the chairman of the meeting noted, the deputy corps is making every effort to timely and qualitative implementation of important tasks set by the head of state at the opening of the fourth session.
for example, there were 106 cavalry national divisions on the Vov fronts.	the book was published in kazakh and russian languages .	0,53
According to the press service of the Senate, during the meeting there was an exchange of views on the state and prospects of improving the Kazakh legislative framework in the field of freedom rights in the field of peaceful assemblies and marches.	during the meeting the sides exchanged the views on the status and prospects of improvement of kazakhstan 's legal framework on the right to freedom of peaceful assemblies and freedom of association .	0,53
The album was recorded along with abbey road and air studios in the workshop of Karl Jenkins from May to July last year with the help of the production department of one of the leading producers in the world - Alexander van Ingen.	the recording of the album was carried out from may to july 2014 in the best british studios , the producer was one of the world 's leading producers alexander van ingen .	0,53
cleaning yards. a lot of attention should be paid to yard and intra territories .
The most popular object will be the bobsleigh track.
therefore, we continued the creative baton in other regions of the country!
then electrochemical dissolution of metal with current begins.
special attention is paid to the development of tax legislation, the interaction of parliament with the government and other bodies.
The first organized exhibition consists of three directions.
emergency and rescue teams in the Atbasar region continue round-the-clock duty and are put on high alert, "said R. Imankulov.
The volume of production in the mining industry increased, natural gas production increased by 4.4% and condensate - by 4.6%, "he said.
to what extent the confidence of the population showed the voting rate in the elections.
as a result of processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, 2015. the number of births in January-March amounted to 92.1 (92.8) thousand people and decreased by 0.8% compared to January-March 2014.
And in order to increase the level of Kazakh content in Kazakh goods and services in the field of subsoil use of the country, a number of enterprises have been launched in many regions of the republic.
Professor Shuke's work is another step in the development of relations with Chinese universities in the field of education and science of the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
All prize-winners were awarded cash prizes.
Akim also noted that many foreigners come to the center, in this regard there is a need for the widespread use of English.
It is worth noting that in 2015 duty funds will be allocated 1.5-2 months earlier than in previous years, which will provide farmers with loans before the start of the sowing campaign.
each thing is of great importance to historical and cultural information that needs to be understood, and we should only be able to understand them.
we will fund each contribution under conditions of parity.
1205 citizens and elderly people with disabilities were provided with special social services at the rehabilitation center for the disabled, located in the village of Talsuat.
the construction of the Kordai zheo will solve the shortage of electricity in the district.
According to the Governor's office, targeted transfers are provided for the construction of two educational facilities, health care, physical culture and sports, transport infrastructure, water supply and drainage of rural settlements, the construction of one facility in residential buildings and the engineering and communication system.
the already difficult situation presents complex geopolitical problems.	a serious geopolitical tensions add to the situation .	0,53
Several exercises involving the Collective Rapid Response and Peacekeeping Forces are planned for next year.	the kazakh defense ministry informs a series of exercises with participation of the collective rapid reaction force and the csto peace-keeping forces is planned in the next year .	0,53
mining and metallurgical companies in Kazakhstan are in a crisis situation, which is associated with a drop in prices for raw materials and metals to 30-50%.
During the conversation after the ceremony of presenting credentials A. Abdramanov conveyed to the Kuwaiti emir the best wishes of the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the plans include the organization of regular textbooks in technical schools and centers for the preparation of educational plans for non-commissioned personnel. in addition , it is planned to organize regular visits to the technical schools and centers of development of educational programs for sergeants of us air force .
the problems encountered could not be solved through low competition.
Availability of financial resources to ensure their implementation.
supporting cooperation with the national fund, the Governor's Office of the city provides the largest state order to local enterprises.
At the end of the event, the Mayor of Almaty instructed architects to finalize the projects taking into account the voiced proposals and comments.
One of them is the creation of a large-scale Internet project "Encyclopedia of Kazakhstan."
In the 90s, the resettlement of Kazakhstanis began.
Alexander Semenovich babichev was born on April 4, 1921 in the Akmola region.
after several operations, he also participated in the battles for the defense of the Kursk arc, but was again wounded in this battle.
all 60 per cent of them do not affect the condition of obsolete power plants.
In connection with the introduction of technical regulations of the customs union, product quality requirements will be strengthened.
here they openly express their problems and contact the relevant authorities.
therefore, support for the institution of family and values ​ ​ is relevant at all times.
veteran of the Great Patriotic War especially noted Grigory Mikhailov, paid by the Ruslan.
In turn, about 200 entrepreneurs are participants of the meeting from Kazakhstan.
the plant can process up to 5 thousand tons of meat per year.
when selling milk, all residents should have a single bidon.	in turn , the governor drew attention on the sanitary-epidemiological norms .	0,53
The complex registered and established the production of more than 40 drugs.	the complex registered and arranged production of more than 40 preparations .	0,53
they are sometimes not implemented due to small business experience.	many women recognize that it is very difficult to combine work and family .	0,53
Happiness and happiness were presented on behalf of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	bakhyt meldeshov and lyazzat suleymen have been presented by the senate .	0,53
therefore, it is not necessary to manually complete the above documents on paper.	since january 1 , 2016 it is planned to completely convert the basic registration forms to electronic document flow in the municipal outpatient organizations .	0,53
The meeting is organized by the Committee for the Protection of Children's Rights of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the akimat of Kostanay region.	the organizer was the committee for the protection of children of the ministry of education and science , with the support of governor 's office .	0,53
The management and further growth of candidates for lower posts should be based on competencies.	2 . recruitment and promotion must be based on a competency-based approach and merit .	0,53
K. Dzhakupov paid special attention to the selfless work and the historical role of the head of state in the development and adoption of this most important document.	and all the activities of the state are based on the constitution , its principles and norms .	0,53
the document states that holding early elections is a requirement of time:	the document notes that the initiative for early elections is a requirement of time as :	0,53
This year, for the above reasons, the budget may be reduced. now we have carried out the optimizing in the amount of about 3.3 billion tenge .
The head of state decided to withdraw the armed groups from the funded pension system.
Thanks to this number, residents will be able to win valuable gifts.
there are no problems with young people before the call.
34.3 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
The Russian patriarch agreed to participate in the congress of representatives of world and traditional religions, "said A. Bashmakov.
this would be the last innovative achievement in the museum center.	scope is the most important and the main building of the exhibition expo 2017 .	0,53
However, the head of the region again instructed the heads of the competent authorities to check the technical conditions of reservoirs and dams daily.	however , k.kokrekbayev instructed all the heads of the relevant departments to follow all safety measures and to check the technical condition of dams and reservoirs ,  - the statement reads .
a systematic approach in the work of the Republican Public Council allowed us to collect certain materials about the entire anti-corruption service of our country, and we chose to use it. the system approach of the republican public council has allowed to collect experience of anti-corruption activities .
earlier, due to the need to check the car position, car owners were exempted no more than four years of production, including the year of release.
land and property taxes are zero.
In turn, Mr. Siyyarto highly appreciated the policy pursued by the head of Kazakhstan and expressed the interest of Hungarian entrepreneurs in strengthening cooperation with Kazakh partners.
they inspect the patient dolls within a specified period of time and pass tests for the provision of the necessary medical care.
The goal that you set for becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world will definitely be fulfilled in the near future, the telegram says.
As noted by D.Nazarbayev, the government made changes to the program, as support they extended the age to 29 years to 35 years.
we believe that our proposals will be useful and will allow the European side to form an opinion on the prospects of the countries of the region related to the future strategy.
The head of the meeting, Colonel Viktor Zhetnik, is sure that the event will give a result.
Recall that the main goal of the event is to increase the practical skills of the headquarters of the Kazakhstan peacekeeping brigade and the Kazakhstan peacekeeping battalion during peacekeeping operations, as well as the combat compatibility of units during peacekeeping operations in the conflict between the warring parties.
During the working trip to Arshalinsky district, the Governor of the region got acquainted with the work of the Izhevsk fodder harvesting plant and visited the egg production workshop.
institutional reforms of the younger generation will change the personnel policy in the public service and will allow for the formation of effective public administration.
The goal of organizing the association is to modernize ideal values ​ ​ among young people and spread a positive image of family and marriage, increase the status of the family, the report said.
This status allows Oralman citizens to be constantly here, regardless of which zone of the country they are sent to.
This year, the construction of the perinatal central building and 7 medical outpatient clinics in the city of Pavlodar will be completed, 3 of them at the expense of the regional budget.
According to preliminary data, 2 thousand 689 voters came to the polls, ballots for voting in the early presidential elections ended, "said K. Nuralin.
Kazagromarketing is also the operator of the investment subsidy program and accepts applications from investors to participate in the program.
At the same time, the productivity of the manufacturing industry in the West Kazakhstan region amounted to 32.9 thousand US dollars, the share per person - 115.8%.
The Governor of the region visited the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev and the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan of the state program uiid (2015-2019), the implementation of large investment projects using new technologies will continue.
In conclusion, the authors of the letter thanked the head of state for his constant attention to the region and assured that they were working ruthlessly to realize the responsible task of turning Aktobe into an agglomeration center.
a special place in society is occupied by the female community, which has instilled beauty and wisdom.
13 of them intend to participate in the elections by self-nomination, one of them was nominated by the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan.
I am sure that they adequately bear this responsibility in all their life paths.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the post office will serve for 9.00-19.00 hours without a break for lunch.
In 2015, work on the socio-economic development of the region was carried out in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State in a message to the people in 2014 "Way to the Future" and state, strategic and sectoral programs.
According to him, the Akmola region completed work on strengthening the coastal fortifications in the transfiguration hydraulic structure, the laying of inert materials along the streets starting from the side of the Nura River continues.
the place of the main event is determined in the square in front of the assembly hall and the name of the main building.
the third generation of our dynasty flourishes in this country.	we are ready to move forward along the path of prosperity and success .	0,53
Over the two months of this year, in the centers for supporting entrepreneurship of the Zhambyl region, 375 business entities were provided with 1 thousand 468 free services.	entrepreneurs support center of zhambyl region has carried out 1468 free services to 375 subjects within 2 months 2015 .	0,53
The Union aims to ensure and comprehensively modernize the sustainable economic growth of member States, enhance the potential of the national economy and cooperate in the face of global economic competition in order to improve the living standards of the population.	the union aims to create conditions for stable development of the economies of the member states in order to improve the living standards of their populations , as well as for comprehensive modernization , cooperation , and improving of the competitiveness of national economies into the global economy .	0,53
Today, the council is an authoritative platform where well-known state and public figures make recommendations for the implementation of state policy in the field of culture and art	as a member of the public council  miras " i support this initiative , and on behalf of the whole association i can safely say that we are for holding presidential elections this year , " concluded b.tleukhan.
the memorandum provides for the growth of investment potential in the field of health.
there was a role for non-governmental organizations in that regard.
Those who cannot come to a special medical examination, especially distant ones, tried to avoid the help provided in the village from a working child to an old man, "the report said.
instead of the 15 minutes needed for a public speech on the topic of society and democracy, the candidate uttered 10 minutes, did not disclose the topic, violated the norms of the literary language and answered questions unsatisfactorily. "
internship is held on the basis of leading educational institutions of Kazakhstan.
Recall that last year at a meeting of the political council of the party "Nұr Otan" the Party Anti-Corruption Program for 2015-2025 was adopted.
Astana residents are dissatisfied with dirty buses, stops throwing pedestrians near traffic lights or in the middle of the road, arranging races during traffic.
gradual reduction of state activity of judicial executors.
their participation in the formation and implementation of youth policy is determined by the activities of youth organizations, volunteer activities, the participation of youth in educational institutions and labor collectives in self-government bodies.
Special attention will be paid here to pupils of orphanages and boarding schools, large families and low-income families.
I am glad that I grew up among the Kazakh brothers when I had a Darkhan character.
The purpose of the competition is the intellectual and individual development of adolescents who participated in research work, the development of the infrastructure of research activities and the system of organizations in educational institutions.
The constructive exchange of views during the general discussion provided an opportunity for participants to formulate a number of proposals and recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the work carried out in organizing the electoral process.
It is worth noting that lung cancer ranks first among the causes of cancer mortality.
K. Dzhakupov invited his Turkmen counterpart to take part in the plenary meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic-Speaking States, which will be held in the capital this fall.
z.milanovich noted the growing pace of Kazakh-Croatian cooperation, which positively affects the main spheres of relations.
Thus, as part of the implementation of the agreement in 2015, it is planned to sign three international agreements.
2.1 million tons in 2015, 1.8 million tons were sown due to the need for summer seeds in grain.
qualification requirements for employees of nuclear devices designed to provide emergency training and response to a nuclear disaster, nuclear safety and nuclear and radiation levels.
Last year, 80 heads of tribal culture were brought from Russia to the region.	currently there are 4095 of private entrepreneurs in burlinsky area .	0,53
The list of objects in which convenient patenting conditions are provided is compiled by authorized bodies.	a list of objects that will be provided with favorable conditions of the patenting is determined by the authority .	0,53
Currently, the epidemiological situation of HIV infection is stable in the republic.	currently , the country has stabilized the epidemiology of hiv infection .	0,53
After that, the head of the region visited the center of motherhood and childhood.	then the governor of the region visited the perinatal center .	0,53
At the same time, about half of the organization's employees are persons with disabilities who will be completely exempt from paying for the company's services.	by the way , organizations were more than a half of the personnel - people with disabilities will be released from the membership fees at all .	0,53
Ksi was opened by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on June 16, 1993.	the institute gained a reputation of the leading analytical center of the country .	0,53
The opening of such a center in the Zhualynsky district is of great importance to us.
In addition, in order for the treaty to enter into force, it must be signed by at least eight countries, the list of which is listed in the second annex, and carry out the ratification procedure: kum, Israel, Iran, DPRK, China, Egypt, India and Pakistan.
issues of road repair and road construction, as well as the quality of work. the focus will be on the quality of construction .
Head of the Department of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan named after S. Toraigyrova, associate professor of gulfairuz zhapekova spoke about the influence of the garden in modern society.
There has been reconstruction for several years, repairs and modernization are being carried out.
Also, according to Bakytzhan Sagintayev, a general agreement was reached on the issue of phased implementation of a pilot system for labeling light industry products for 2015-2016.
The action will draw public attention to children from single-parent families, identify them in a timely manner and provide the necessary assistance.
The presentation of collections is dated for anniversary of Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
first, the independence of the judiciary from other bases of power and the monitoring of the appointment of judges.
in terms of retail turnover, sko ranks second in the republic.
In turn, the angel gurria noted the importance of the signed document.
It is worth noting that legalization is a preparatory stage for the general declaration of income, which will be introduced in the coming years.
According to the Russian space department, the device, located on spacecraft No. 2 "resource-p," allows for high-quality shooting in the spectral and panchromatic layers of five ranges.
such elections and participation in such a historic high figure have never been seen by observers in other countries.
The honorary title of the capital of Islamic culture symbolizes historical continuity and gives the city of Almaty a new impetus in the development of Islamic culture, "the telegram says.
in the current presidential election, for the first time in history, according to international and Kazakh experts, unprecedented, record voter participation was noted.
The remuneration of a health worker depends on the quality of the services provided.
A working group comprising representatives of Kazakhstan had now been established between the four States.
this will contribute to the navigation and control of ships.
you know, the main source of development of any livestock industry, including the main way to improve dairy livestock production, is the formation of their feed base. you know that the successful development of any livestock industry , including dairy cattle husbandry , is depend on food potential .
We hope that the States signatories to the Iaku Charter will ratify the instrument as soon as possible, and the organization will begin its full-fledged activities in the near future. i hope that the countries signed the charter of the iofs will ratify it as soon as possible to allow the organization to begin its full activity .
Governor of the region k.sherbayev congratulated all villagers on the 70th anniversary of the Victory and got acquainted with the work of the newly introduced cultural center.
The Governor of the region summed up the meeting and noted the topical issues of the upcoming meeting.
military personnel of all units of the unit, according to the established signal, had to carry out their tasks in a timely manner.
According to a study for 2014 and 4 months of 2015, the unemployment rate in Kazakhstan for the economically active population is 5%. according to the research , the unemployment rate amounts to 5 % .
and monitors electoral processes.
It is on this day that the traditional ceremony of taking the oath of young employees who entered the public service will take place in the complex of symbols on Kashpai Mountain.
thus we were able to get acquainted with the level of the Kazakh troupe.
Residents of the regions of the republic will honor the memory of those killed in battles, lay flowers at the Eternal Flame, organize mass holidays, honor veterans
This meeting was held this year on the basis of the National University of Defense named after the first president - the leader of Kazakhstan within the framework of the plan of activities of foreign states and international organizations to expand and deepen relations in the field of defense in Kazakhstan.
In addition, employees of state bodies told entrepreneurs about their rights and obligations, and also talked about changes and innovations in the legislation in force to date.
the elections were calm, neat and compact.
Each participant in the Christmas tree on behalf of the head of state was presented with external clothes, a certificate for a mobile phone, books and sweets.
including in the field of forensic activities.
As for the program targets, the following activities are planned this year: continued diversification of the sown area structure by expanding the areas with priority crops by 50 thousand hectares, introduction of new irrigated land on an area of more than 5500 hectares, the Governor's office reported.
Over five years, 2.3 million tons of vegetables have been produced in the region.
museum doors are open to visitors until 23.00 at night.
Governor of the region nurlan nogaev talked with the employees of the model library by online communication.
following the meeting, Erik Sultanov gave a number of instructions to the relevant departments.
effective work of all elements of the tourism cluster will help to replenish the budget of the region, improve the attraction of additional capital into circulation.
the number of employees during this period amounted to 6.1 million people (71.2% of the total number of employees).
then the senior operative, then the head of the district department of internal affairs.
thus, we have maintained stability and peace in our family and society.
He participated in battles in Poland, Germany, Czechoslovakia.
frozen water margins are sent to the state district, where they are processed without a residue.
in addition, in the area it is planned to commission the structures of the first stage and the third stage of door hydroelectric power stations and standing hydroelectric power station. it is also planned to complete the first phase of construction and commissioning of the third stage of the issyk and turgen hhp .
Yermak presented entrepreneurs with a program to support medium-sized businesses in which financial indicators are stable and existing enterprises or potential exporters can participate.
agriculture, tourism.
According to the press service of the department, the head of state checked preparations for the presentation during a working trip to Alma-Ata region.
the documentary shows the descendants and historians who were in the karlag, the places of serving the sentence and burial of prisoners, interviews with survivors and local residents.
In turn, the chairman of Kalamger noted that in addition to the Grand Prix and the places of the three winners, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan has letters of thanks and valuable gifts from sponsors.
Also, as part of a comprehensive development plan, 169 km of power transmission lines were built in order to solve electricity supply issues in 5 settlements, and 8 transformational regulatory stations were built.
transition to pay based on results.
It is worth noting that during the training seminar, attention was paid to the experience of sbrkk electoral companies 2011-2012 and international forms of elections.
the salaries of those in line for housing meet the requirements.
During 2014, 41,600 children were born in the city, which is the largest of the previous ones.
Independence Day is celebrated on December 16 each year.
Currently, the city has more than 300 ethnocultural associations.
In our state, an effective political system has developed, public consent has been established.
a serious exchange of views took place on a number of prerequisites of the recent bilateral meeting of the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia with the participation of the Chancellor of Germany. Merkel and the President of France f.Olland.
Candidates for judges receive a one-year internship in the scholarship courts.
The Romanian side expressed interest in working closely with the production regions, in particular Atyrau and Prahova, given that both countries are oil producing regions.
Today, according to the facts of product safety revealed by us, the amount of the fine is from 300 to 600 monthly calculated indicators. today , fines range from 300 to 600 minimal calculation index .
According to the head of the holding, this applies mainly to technical specialists.
a group of bills to be ratified will be submitted to the Majilis.
interested in continuing the state educational program and extending the training of Afghan national personnel in the country.
All students of Kazakh universities, united by the federation of student sports, noted that the holding of presidential elections will contribute to maintaining stability in the Kazakh society, which is the key to the successful implementation of ambitious projects for the development of sports in the country.
topics in general can be selected by the users of the site themselves.
now the educational center continues to train more than 100 guides.
According to the Ministry of Defense, Maghripa Sarkina and the love of the humpback by the decision of the housing commission of the Akmola regional garrison were provided with two- and three-room apartments.
every year, more than 1,500 people, foreign military representatives, experts from various NTO headquarters and the military diplomatic corps registered in Kazakhstan take part in the training.
almost all local specialists and employees working at the enterprise.
That is why we currently need to first of all increase cooperation between Kazakhstan and Cherengoria in the field of energy, mining, tourism and trade.
Recall that in 2014, in his message, the head of state presented a new economic policy program aimed at economic growth and the continuation of structural reforms.
materials used for road construction, completely domestic products.
Ethnocultural associations of the region also hold charity events.
they all require systematic work and solutions, including through legislative changes.
a natural-scientific justification for the creation of a reserve of local importance "lake" has been developed, corresponding positive conclusions have been obtained, "the report said.
By the end of the year, the program in the region plans to complete the construction and commissioning of 7 projects.
in the future, it is planned to plant many trees in the park, except for the tree.
Kazakhstan is in favor of affirming the principles of equality, mutual consideration of interests, collective settlement of main problems, relying on international law and the central role of the United Nations, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Employees of all departments and departments of the department took an active part in the exhibition.
He was very enthusiastic about the invitation from Issam al-Khumei and expressed interest in expanding cooperation with Kazakh law enforcement agencies, "the report said.
this is a great pressure for UNT delivery points, their placement, organization.
In order to provide producers with seeds, funds were allocated through the joint-stock company Prokorporation and seeds were purchased.
this center is the second in the region.	it was created to help rural entrepreneurs .	0,54
Also today, the people's representatives appointed a deadline for preparing an opinion on the bill "On the ratification of the Convention on the Delivery of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Cases Abroad."
this is the first procedure for the election of the khan - landing on the throne.
it is also possible to report on travel with regular rail tickets issued on the strict reporting form.
training and retraining of canine specialists will be carried out there.
In the first five-year plan of the program of forced industrial-innovative development in the south, the production of new previously unprecedented technological and pharmaceutical products has already begun, "the akim said.
The incorporation of the values of the eternal country into existing school curricula.
people who work in several directions arrived on our train.
in addition, they want elite Czech manufacturing enterprises to be serviced in the country with the support of the Czech Export Bank and the transfer of modern European technologies.
In this regard, more than 80 large-scale events are planned to be held in the region by the end of this year.
the tasks of the contacts are not easy.
200 thousand new jobs will be created through the construction of roads alone.
On behalf of the akim of the region, the Amandyk "zhetysu" will be provided with seeds of farmers of the areas for sowing sugar beets.
In turn, a. Musinov thanked Sheikh Tamim and Hamad al-Thani for the decisions taken to build a school in Astana and a republican health center in Semipalatinsk.
Employees of the operational-rescue detachment of the TD of the Karaganda region continue to work on transporting people by boat and delivering humanitarian aid to the village of Karaoi, "said R. Imankulov.
lived all his life in the act.
in general, at the general meeting of the Republican Chamber on Akbas breeds, the results of the work of experts from research institutes and universities on practical scientific support aimed at improving Kazakh akbas breeds were announced.
according to the senator, if as a result of any shortcomings, such as a reduction in customs and tax payments to the budget, which ensure joint actions of the state with the population and business, or in a socially pronounced sphere, this will negatively affect the country's economy.
In turn, the Governor of the region got acquainted with the work of the workshop for the manufacture of small-capacity wind generators located in the college walls in the district center, solar power supply panels and integrated drip irrigation.
The participants of the meeting exchanged views on the prospects of Kazakh-Macedonian cooperation in the field of combating crime, protecting public order and combating drugs, discussed the possibility of concluding bilateral international treaties in this area.
First of all, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, it is necessary to attract young people, labor collectives, starting from school.
special wind generators will be installed on the roof of the central pavilion, which will provide power to the entire building, "the report said.
According to representatives of the committee, the limited liability partnership Soyr aes zheo will reduce efficiency from 98.9% to 99.1%, harmful substances and dust - by 30%, dioxide - from 5 to 15%.
and added that the closer the relationship between the state and society, the fewer crimes.
we know about the Silk Road initiative, a number of agreements have been signed on the Chinese side, between Kazakhstan and China, we have a very large fund of natural wealth, and from January 1 - taking into account the fact that he is eeo, the people of Kazakhstan, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan explained.
The head of state also noted that all state programs should be implemented with the maximum involvement of domestic suppliers and producers.
In addition, on the eve of the upcoming celebration of significant jubilees, the issues of attracting young people with their creative ideas to cultural events organized at the city level and their implementation were discussed.
As noted in the management, the main goal of creating an "industrial park" is to increase the volume of tax payments from its enterprises by all levels of the budget.
A. Vasilevich was awarded the Order of Glory of the 3rd degree.
The mayor of the city Alexander Pavlovich Rybalko was the first to meet.
unemployed youth can place their resume there.
The opening of the Year of Kha will be held in all regions of the country.
protecting the interests of the state has always been the honest duty of a man. at all times protect the interests of the native state was the lot of brave and strong people that are not alien to the concept of love for the motherland , patriotism , unwavering loyalty to military duty .
He also noted that today checks are being reduced in the country, processes are being simplified, everyone is going into electronic form.
veteran is the only hero of the Soviet Union in the Almaty region.
It is worth noting that the Abai region is a unique city with developed science.
According to the commander, victory is a great legacy and inspiring message of those who fought against fictional fascism and retained the freedom and independence of peoples from the plague.
The agreement is aimed at increasing the effectiveness of cooperation in combating crime and regulating relations between the competent authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the extradition of persons hiding from criminal prosecution, as well as evading serving a sentence.
In this regard, the Speaker of the Majilis extended an invitation to Zhang Dejiang, Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, to visit our country on a working visit.
this is a clear manifestation of the true confidence of the people in the future of the state.
At the end of the round table, the artists presented the National Museum of Kazakhstan with several of their paintings that took part in this exhibition.
the percentage of registered unemployed was 0.4 per cent of the economically active population.
Cabinet positions re-elected unchanged.
Aigul Aryngaziev, deputy akim of Aktobe, visited the houses of veterans of the Great Patriotic War, the oppressive Ivan Ivanovich and the Yenaliyev Ismail Iskhanul.
According to the Governor's Office, the positive results of the Balapan program were achieved through the construction of state kindergartens in Kyzylorda region.
including growth in industrialization and diversification-based economies.
We must give an example to the younger generation as a national intelligentsia, "the head of state said.	as the leader of the nation emphasized people who were awarded state prizes perform their duties honestly and do much more unsparingly .	0,54
A sports complex and a summer sports ground in the Borodulikhinsky district were built in the Abay district.	for the population of rural areas the houses of culture and creativity were opened in abai , katon-karagai and ulan districts .	0,54
The event is designed to interest the youth of the city in an active lifestyle, and sports are a useful and fun thing.	the purpose of the event is to involve young people of the city in active lifestyle and to show that doing sports is not only useful , but also fun .	0,54
According to A. Akhmetov, the quality of education depends on three things - the level of the teacher, the passion of the student and the material and technical base of the educational institution.	they elaborated on the improving the quality of education as the important component of the competitiveness of the nation , especially in the modern world .	0,54
then an elderly front-line soldier got acquainted with the life of the fire department and expressed sincere gratitude to the soldiers who serve in the security of the country.	after the concert the veteran was familiarized with the everyday life of the fire station , he expressed his sincere gratitude to the men who keep people 's lives .	0,54
China's religious associations have confirmed their participation in the upcoming congress.	religious associations in china will participate in the upcoming congress .	0,54
Obviously, the ceremony of awarding participants in the Belarusian war did not leave anyone indifferent.	it should be noted the highlight of the campaign was awarding ceremony of wwii veterans .	0,54
Recall that in the period from 2005 to 2014, the total inflow of direct investments from Croatia to Kazakhstan amounted to 6.4 million dollars.	during the period from 2005 to 2014 the gross inflow of direct investments from croatia to kazakhstan amounted to 6.4 million dollars .	0,54
in these conditions it was necessary to form your own army.	the feature of the celebration was the staging of a military camp with a field kitchen .	0,54
The bill is aimed at improving the contractual and legal framework on issues of border cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic and taking the necessary measures for the main functions of border representatives, in particular, to prevent incidents at the border, and in case of incidents, to resolve them, "he said.
graduate students amounted to 2632 people, of which 2618 people, or 99.5% - with the defense of the dissertation.
In the afternoon, as part of the anniversary events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, Bokeida, located in the Bokeyorda area, visited the historical and museum complex.
Therefore, we note the special importance of the five institutional reforms initiated by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said the chairman of the public association of the Armenian association Urartu.
The business hour allowed business representatives of the dialogue platform to communicate directly with representatives of local executive bodies on topical issues that arose during the work.
together with a general electrician, alstom, talgo, the production of locomotives and wagons has been established in Kazakhstan.
Almaty Mayor's Office signed a memorandum with French companies "French mountain cluster" montagne "and" pom "in order to develop ski tourism," Akhmetzhan Yessimov said.
their main goal is to allow listeners to enjoy classical art.
Kazakh producers cover our citizens with domestic flour and food.
In the near future, for this benefit, appropriate assessments will be given to the residents of the city and its guests, "said the deputy akim of the capital.
the historical place disappears due to the flush of the Ural River.
they will be exempt from payments, "said Myrzakhmetov.
To date, 6,084 applications for financing through credit programs worth 63.6 billion tenge have been approved, 2,996 applications worth 61.5 billion tenge have been financed.
The sides also discussed the state and prospects of cooperation on a number of issues of social and humanitarian development, ensuring the rule of law and human rights, harmonizing inter-ethnic relations, and ensuring gender equality.
The draft provides for amendments and additions to a number of legislative acts.
All measures to store classified information are specified and provided for.
as a result of the lecture, the main provisions of the president's message were tested.
Nevertheless, the number of visitors to this Internet resource is growing, who got the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the work of their compatriots, "he said.
Honored Worker of Kazakhstan - Mukhitdinov, director, People's Artist of Russia Yuri Alexandrov.
Today, dear ladies, you are provided with all the opportunities for successful work and achieving great success in various areas, "said Erik Sultanov.
Adilbek Dzhaksybekov instructed the head of the institution to pay attention to the accessibility of circles and sections, interesting holding of children's holidays, and also noted that parents should not experience any difficulties when registering a child in sections and circles.
Members of the commission noted the need to strengthen the information and communication work of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan in terms of informing the population about the activities of universities in the country and their modernization.
Within the framework of the action, the work of the public reception council of public consent was organized.
The first landscaping pond of the city was planted in the 70s.
The sides also discussed the prospects of the Kazakh-French strategic partnership.
This issue will be considered by the heads of government on February 6.
According to experts of the World Health Organization, 50-55% of health depends on a person's lifestyle, 20-23% on heredity, 20-25% on the environment (ecology), 8-12% on the work of the national health sector.	in educational organizations sports , cultural and entertainment events , flash mobs , debates are held .	0,54
the company is located in the capital, has 2662 workers.	the number of employees amounts 2,662 people .	0,54
on the same day, the victory flag is awarded to the republican school named after the hero of the Soviet Union, the national hero, army general sagadat nurmagambetov. "
An expanded meeting of the coordinating council of heads of republican educational organizations aimed at implementing tourism programs was also held.
The military parade in Moscow, dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the Victory, was attended by only five veterans from former allied countries, 25 veterans from Kazakhstan.
At the same time, as the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Education and Science said earlier, the Ministry of Education and Science is training personnel on the basis of specialized magistrates for the implementation of the program of forced industrial and innovative development.
Recall that the measures taken are aimed at creating conditions for fully satisfying the need of troops for junior specialists.
In addition, the head of state instructed the presidential administration to regularly inform the population on topical issues as part of a single plan.
The purpose of the meeting is to clarify the main provisions of the message of the President of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
it was one of the largest enterprises producing ceramic bricks.
the youngest participant in the competition is Shah Mahambet fourteen.
there is now a need for technical support for these helicopters.
their work is related to the sale of cement, commercial concrete and inert materials, "he said.
I want to inform you that today the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Union of Journalists, will announce a competition for the best material among journalists who hesitate over the country's foreign policy.	meanwhile , mr. idrisov said that this year the ministry together with the union of journalists held a competition among foreign journalists for the best work of kazakhstan .	0,54
the study of the system of hassle becomes relevant in connection with the introduction of changes in legislation on the fundamental improvement of the conditions for entrepreneurial activity.
it will present engineering thoughts and achievements of world and Kazakh science, as well as show Kazakhstan's tendency to innovative development, the principle of the "green economy."
in this regard, and. in order to expand inter-parliamentary relations, Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Chairman of the Lithuanian Sejm Nigmatulin L. He recalled the invitation to the Kazakhstani, which he sent to the record.
According to Beknazarov, this will increase the confidence of citizens in the judicial system.
Traditionally, peoples' friendship festivals, round tables, scientific conferences and evenings of remembrance are held.
the timeliness and relevance of an initiative in the light of further increase in unity of society, actions of citizens and public authorities on the way of implementation of the program "Nrla zhol" and also in the conditions of growth of global geopolitical and economic instability is noted.
in addition, experts in the field of kum participate in the symposium.
Regulation of the investigation procedure in accordance with water agreements;
the Kazakh-Hungarian intergovernmental agreement on the readmission of persons illegally residing on the territory of the parties and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
As the head of the department noted, the preparation of a career card is an experience applied abroad, which will be ready when any candidate enters the public service.
the new structure will develop, research, process proposals for the development of primary health care not only in Kazakhstan, but also for the entire European territory.
improvement of management technology and organization of medical care contributed to the improvement of basic indicators of population health, forming positive medical and demographic trends.
Last year, trade in the Eurasian Economic Union fell by about 15-16%.
the program of the evening includes a traditional concert of musicians from the Silk Road region and artistic ethnic corners with the support of Eurasian and Middle Eastern countries.
representatives of more than 60 nationalities live on Mangistau land, including 20 embargoes.	the tatar ethnic -cultural association  bulgar " and the fund " soglasiye " ( harmony ) participaited in the meeting .
A media schedule for 2015 has been prepared to coordinate and create information streams.	the turquoise color , filling the central part of the logo repeats the color of the flag of kazakhstan as well as the main color of the country ,  he said .
In 2015, the audience will see the performances "The Way of Heroism," dedicated to the 100th anniversary of M. Gudullin, and "Love Grove," dedicated to the anniversary of Sh. Ualikhanov.
the decision to legalize the latter was made by the tax authorities.
presenting the plan of the nation, the head of state opened a new way for the modernization process.
noted the foreign economic strategy of Hungary "open the way to the east" and the possibility of integration within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
According to the Director of the EEC Business Development Department, Deputy Head of the Working Group Bauyrzhan Bekeshev, the main purpose of the seminar is to explain methodological issues related to the procedure of the slave, practical aspects of the introduction of slaves into the practice of Jewish activities.
In this regard, the President noted that if the domestic economy develops and domestic business produces goods necessary for Kazakhstan, this will be a response to the future crisis.
and increased funding, transfer of research institutes to universities.
we are talking about paired work, about small businesses.
they noted that thanks to the current situation in the country, they will be provided with constant comprehensive assistance, "the report said.
About 700 spectators gathered in the Kokshetau Palace of Culture to listen to the performances of aitishnik poets.
Heads of parliaments of the EAEU and CIS member states, members of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission, well-known scientists and economists discussed the organization's work, as well as strengthening the Eurasian space.
However, the planting work is carried out by the farmers themselves.
In turn, the participants on behalf of representatives of all ethnic groups thanked Elbasy for the fact that peace and harmony prevail in the country on the basis of interethnic peace, a lot of work has been done in the field of education, culture, language development, and most importantly, the future of Kazakhstan is based on the unity of the people.
according to preliminary data, a trestle will be built in this area and the issue of traffic congestion arising at this place will be resolved.
on the agenda were the bills that were again submitted to the meeting.
development of proposals aimed at solving problematic issues.
we wish Peter Fedorovich and his wife Praskovya Alekseevna good health, longevity, well-being and well-being in their later life.
thanks to the heroic exploits of war veterans, the people have survived to this day.
Together with this fund, a number of socially significant events are carried out, programs and projects are implemented, and sociological studies are carried out.
In addition, as John Ordway noted, relations have been established with leaders of civil society and the private sector of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service of Ktzh, the transportation of goods through the shuttle system is carried out every Wednesday.
the company needs technical specialties in the metallurgical industry, and already this year, according to the terms of the memorandum, 4 graduates of the university will be employed.	there is an intention to carry out joint research , design shops and units and modernization of production , development of new technologies , equipment and materials .	0,55
their actions depend on the proper functioning not only of local settlements, but also of cities.	the location and functioning of cities depends on their work .	0,55
This process of developing local self-government this year will be implemented in the Aral, Syr Darya, state-owned districts of the region, the report said.
According to the Secretary of the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform of the Majilis, who made a presentation on the topic, the main purpose of the bill is to bring the current legislation into line with the provisions of the Penal Code.
highly appreciating the contacts between Kazakhstan and Turkey, he expressed readiness to intensify their strengthening.
Currently, the entire population consumes other services from other institutions.
With the construction of a new facility, the issue of a kindergarten in the village has been completely resolved.
in recent years, enterprises have allocated 2,776 grant grants for training.	vice minister stressed that 100 % of population will be employed within the system .	0,55
Sergey kulagin presented the veteran with an anniversary medal and gifts.	sergey kulagin gave the veteran a commemorative medal and gifts .	0,55
his son, Rachmetullaevich, said that his father was a partisan warrior.
only when we were separated and broken.
The task of the Kazakhstani detachment was to ensure the safety of local residents from mines and explosives, help in cleaning drinking water and providing medical assistance, "says Lieutenant Colonel Mukanov, commander of the engineering and sapper battalion.
Considering that the Kazakh diaspora in Houston is the third largest community, issues of further development of cultural relations were discussed.
Today, there are enough young people in Kazakhstan who have all the opportunities for Kazakh youth, actively and have high hopes for the future of the country. today 's the kazakh youth has all opportunities .
this company bases the experience of catering during the Sochi Olympics, the Governor's Office reported.
having signed the relevant memoranda, it is necessary to re-start the practice of holding forums to increase the Kazakh content. it 's necessary to resume the practice of holding the forums on local content with the conclusion of memoranda .
in his opinion, institutional reform is a timely response to the current situation in the world economy and politics.
the role of the garden in bringing to the population the main directions of the mission and the activities of our department is very important. in this regard , the main task of the department and the media to inform the people .
the number of voters reached record levels.
according to it, the winning video will be shown during the year in the regional and city tedeether.
to this end, I am in the Balkhash region.
As a result, over the year 1,694 specialists in 20 specialties - doctors, nurses and paramedics (specialists without medical education) improved their qualifications in Kyzylorda region.
it should be noted, however, that the system for assessing working conditions still needs to be improved. the quality of the assessment of working conditions is poor .
most of the funds from the issue of Eurobonds are used to finance projects for the extraction of natural uranium.
the life of the veteran coincided with the capture of Belarus by the Nazis.
The head of state noted that, according to the World Health Organization, the most useful products for the human body are products in his native area, and even water in his native country has great benefits.
however, on the principle of open government, all citizens of the country should be involved in decision-making by public authorities, especially in the field.
therefore, there are no problems selling the item.
Such live fire is conducted annually in accordance with the curriculum.
According to him, these studies will make it possible to find out how wide sections of the population are aware of the upcoming elections, to find out the attitude of the country's citizens to these elections and the progress of their preparation for the return campaign.
Providing material assistance to low-income categories of children, including from the general compulsory education fund.
it will be a great gift for the participants of this holiday.
companies "bonatti," "enigroup," successfully cooperating with our country, are noted in the oil sector.
In order to increase the availability of financial instruments of farmers, as last year, the holding uses funds for lending to agricultural producers.	according to kazagro , in order to increase farmers ' access to finance , as well as last year , the holding applied the funding instrument of second-tier banks for subsequent crediting of agricultural producers .	0,55
according to the nursing system, they are assisted within the framework of a palliative method of treatment, "said the head doctor of St. Petersburg State University.
At the end of the action, a concert program was held in which patriotic songs were performed.
as a result, the amount of taxes to the budget also increases.
It should be noted that owners of public facilities and residential buildings, commercial facilities using energy-efficient technologies can take part in the competition.
At the same time, as the head of state noted, the assembly should become the center of all charity events held in the country with the support of business with the government.
and the crew of the surface vessel and personnel of the marine infantry military units of the city of Aktau began preparations for the competition.
The summit meeting of President Nursultan Nazarbayev and Francois Hollande gave a special impetus to bilateral cooperation.	the meeting of the presidents of both states in the end of last year gave a kick to sustainable and positive bilateral cooperation .	0,55
Thus, as of April 10, 2015, the Central Election Commission accredited 452 observers from three missions of international organizations - two international organizations (the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states and the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking states) and 32 foreign states.	according to the list there will be : an election observation mission of cis - 37 people , 2 people from the sco , 4 from the cooperation council of turkic speaking states , and 7 more from other foreign countries ,  the member of the central election commission of the republic of kazakhstan reported .
Peter Wolcott expressed readiness to share experience of management of natural parks of Australia and to support development of modern system of management of Kazakhstan sports.
Today, the mutual economic sanctions of the West and Russia, of course, increase the difficult situation in the world economy. we have to applaud leaders who exercised self-mastery , preparedness to compromise and the leaderships .
the publication contains the definition, meaning of terms using scientific publications and tanks in the ethnopolitical sphere.
the volume of the work corresponds to two established sheets, the topic is revealed, the candidate has sufficient vocabulary, the game is correct, understandable.	presidential candidate , nominated by the communist party turgun syzdykov has successfully passed the test in state language .	0,55
today, the number of rabbits in the farm has reached 1,239 individuals.	the current population is 1239 heads .	0,55
The New Year is a holiday that gives everyone souls.	change of years is a symbolic step from the past to the future .	0,55
It is noted that the only center in the Central Asian region for arming and providing inspection of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan celebrates its 20th anniversary today.	it is noted that the only center for arms control and security inspection of the ministry of defence of the republic of kazakhstan celebrates its 20th anniversary .	0,55
the resource provides general information about the union, in particular, current general economic indicators of the eurozone, information on the minerals of the participating countries, etc.	the resource provides general information about the union ,  the message reads .
The meeting took place on the eve of the scheduled visit of the Prime Minister of the Vietnamese Socialist Republic to Kazakhstan at the end of May this year, during the visit it is planned to sign an agreement on a free trade zone between the Eurasian Economic Union and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
In this regard, crop decline increases three and a half times a year and reduces the visibility of rural residents.
The meeting brought together representatives of other nationalities who know state knowledge, representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan youth organizations.
Today, future officers of the Military Institute of the Ground Forces end in combat skill, and are also preparing to participate in a parade in Moscow, where ceremonial costumes will be made and their skills and skills demonstrated.
According to the results of seven months, legalization in the Mangistau region amounted to 170 appeals. as the result of the 7 month work of the commission on legalization , 170 requests were considered in mangistau .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, representatives of state and non-governmental organizations have come to a general decision on the need to conduct an analysis of legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to identify elements that allow discrimination.
the entrepreneur speaks of an increase in orders in neighboring villages.
This was reported in the department. Idrisov noted that the female creature has been a parent of the family for many years.
the best district department of physical culture and sports - department of physical culture and sports of Zhanakorgan district of Kyzylorda region, "the best coach of the year" - with. Basebayev, free-style wrestling coach of the Shanganai aul of the Kerbulak district of Almaty region.
According to him, work has been carried out to create drainage channels, temporary dams have been built, there are bags of inert materials.
In 2014, 46 chemistry rooms of a new sample were acquired.
To date, the main construction of the theater has been completed.
The residential complex will be built on the territory of the exhibition with the use of highly efficient building materials, which will reduce carbon dioxide emissions after the end of the exhibition EXPO-2017 and provide residents with comfortable conditions at a high level.
On international women's day, participants in the forum were congratulated by pupils of preschool organizations "matinee - erkemay" and "nursery."
gabdullin belongs to the same group of citizens.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of mutually beneficial partnership and ways to expand it.
According to the president of the association, we did not know what to do, but believed the head of state.
According to the WWII veteran, it is very difficult to find ships and submarines.
Given that the Kyzylorda region is one of the three regions with a very high birth rate, it is important that a large number of such kindergartens be built.
for them, the Great Patriotic War is a distant story.
in the exhibition hall, a tunic and medals of one of them are exhibited - a WWII veteran, a veteran of the tzh organs of Colonel Dinmukhammedovich mukhametshin.
Over the years, Kazakhstan has sent military personnel to military universities of the Republic of Belarus to receive special specialized education and training of officers.
During the discussion of the message, the President's address is one of the most important events of 2014, which outlines the moment of development of our country.
each stage ends in the neighboring area with a ceremony of laying flowers at the monument with the participation of veterans.
relatively inexpensive and artificial reflection is available.
Thus, the state will receive free water and electricity.
Born in 1924 in the village of Vinogradovka, Algabass district.
During the presidential elections, we witnessed that the majority of the citizens in the polling line at the polling stations created young people, and they pleased us very much. on election day , we have seen many young people wanted to participate in voting and that pleased us .
the presidents of Kazakhstan and Russia expressed the hope that efforts to ensure the peace process would contribute to solving the problem of the conflict in Ukraine.
Highly appreciating the initiative of our head of state to convene a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, he expressed gratitude to the Secretary General of our country for inviting the President of Kazakhstan to the V Congress.
Also, employees of the Civil Defense Department noted the significance of this day, which is celebrated annually on March 1.
Together with the participants in the action, we plan to continue the project from this week until the end of April, "he said.
The exercise was attended by commanders and chiefs of staff of Almaty garrison units, as well as company commanders of air defense troops of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
turnout was 95.22%.
if necessary, hairdressers will visit the homes of veterans.
in conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan wished health, success in his work, and well-being to the friendly people of Kazakhstan.
central hospitals in all areas received new equipment.
to date, the designed point has been reached.
The parties called the oil industry, energy industry, transport and communications a promising area of ​ ​ cooperation.
during the exercises, the nodes of the field command post and the reserve command post and the rear post were expanded.
Canada, in turn, is among the leading partners of Kazakhstan among the two American states.
Thus, in order to increase the efficiency and modernization of the public administration system, to activate the state apparatus and create a small government, the head of state instructed to reorganize the government.
according to paragraph 2 of article 27 of the constitutional law, campaigning work is completed at 00:00 local time, that is, at 2015:00 hours on April 24, 00, the day before the election.
An interesting, large-scale exhibition of museums in the Karaganda region presents 617 exhibits.
from. Zhasuzakov also called on commanders to pay special attention to improving combat readiness, strengthening the moral and psychological condition of personnel and improving the social and everyday sphere.
In industry and agriculture of Almaty region, representatives of many nationalities work and live as a whole.
further work was needed in that direction.
for voting, they all went to the city of Seoul, where a special polling station was created in advance.
representatives of an illegally created military group attempted to retreat to the river bank.
The purpose of this is to increase the efficiency of the country's electricity market.
in the future, an entrepreneur service center will be opened in each district.
this will make our independence eternal, strengthen it over time.
According to him, any war veteran can use the services of the strongest hairdressers in the capital.
Moreover, the offices of global banks are very convenient in the near future.
This practical lesson was organized as part of the command training of the leadership of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will be held from January 19 to 30, 2015.
Current expenses in the amount of 5 billion tenge will be used as part of the optimization.
the population density in the south is four times greater than in the north.
According to the speaker of the House, especially in the transport and transit sphere.
Within the framework of the visit, a meeting will be held with UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova.
captains of surface warships.
Governor's Office of the remote Moyynkum district bought a TV for low-income families.
About a thousand people took part in it, who showed an example of courage and dedication.
warehouse consists of three chambers.
this is the first visit of the Turkish president to the Kazakh country.
In addition, the necessary specialists were trained in the rehabilitation center of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk and expensive diagnostic devices were involved in the regional hospital.
you easily combine all this with activity, you are always beautiful and cute, "said the mayor of the city.
Also, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko were presented with an electronic library consisting of two parts, as well as reading tickets.
the mobile phone differs from the usual installation with large buttons with shortened numbers, each action is accompanied by a sound, an alarm button, when pressed, a special signal comes out.
It is necessary to harmonize the language modern and seek consensus on terminology.	as the ministry noted , the tasks of the president of kazakhstan has been completed - a terminological fund of kazakh language has been created .	0,55
The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan have developed an action plan for the creation of iako.
During the consideration of the document, a number of changes and additions were needed on the basis of amendments and comments by representatives of the committee.
The Ministry of Health and Social Development together with the Mayor's Office of Astana "concluded memoranda on issues of social support and employment of the population aimed at improving the quality of health of the population," Duissenova said.
strengthening the institution of a business ombudsman to protect the interests of entrepreneurs.
this document paves the way for the development of many joint projects and initiatives.
Last year, we radically modernize our company and now manufacture more than 20 types of high-quality products in colored boxes, decorated beautifully and brightly, "said the CEO.
in the individual competition, the best was the instructor of the Directorate of the Commander of the Regional Command "Capital" headquarters sergeant Sergei chieftain, the second place went to Sergeant Second Class Rustem Makhanov, and the 3rd place to the veteran of the Afghan war marat smak.
Kazakhstan needs to maintain stability, you are a pledge.	representatives of the medical sphere also sent letters of support .	0,55
the wall of a prominent memorial with distant vision is poured with concrete.	the monument is an example of patriotism and courage for youths .	0,55
the leaders got acquainted with the situation in flooded areas and saw the amount of water in the Nura and Sherubai rivers, "said A. Sovetov.
The magnet of his paintings dedicated to the city of escape is already ready.
two bridges over the Syr Darya River have already been worn out.
this will allow children to receive a high-quality education.
In addition, the works of famous fencing masters of the XX-XXI centuries in our country and the region are presented: m.baraisov, g.ponomarenko, o.skorodin, pppedin, m.kaldybayev.
I remember very well your initiative to create a customs union, and then eo.
villagers can view the website of the party, government and district akimats for free.
We encourage entrepreneurs to invest in the agro-industrial complex of Almaty region for agricultural development.
returned to the Taldykorgan and received the rank of major general.
In addition, Dosayev noted the contribution and importance of alternative energy sources in Kazakhstan.
During the event, the heads of educational institutions working as part of the experiment on the dual training system shared the features of the dual system and familiarized employers with the problems that arise during participation in the experiment.
the accompanist of the vocal studio "Young Dauren" as part of the jury was Chernikova Tatyana Vladimirovna, the teacher-organizer of the Palace of schoolchildren of the Yeshimkuls zhaksybek mahamagshkulovich, as well as the teacher of the theater-studio "Dream-show" Bekbolatov.
Last year, 154 investment projects were implemented in the region.
joys, let the houses be bright, "said A. Batalov.
in this regard, the agreement provides for the assistance of the Ministry in transferring to the trust of its organization, including the national agency for the development of local content "nadloc" white and "national agency for export and investment" kaznex invest. "
The upcoming parade is the largest procession of the Kazakh army.
he first appeared from the mouth of our ancestor.
in the current crisis, one of the most important tasks is to attract foreign investment, sagintayev noted.	to date attraction of foreign investment is one of the most important tasks .	0,55
you chose a high specialty and study at a school that bears the name of the general of the sagadat hero sagadat nurmagambetov, created on the initiative of the head of state - the supreme commander of the armed forces.
The rapid conduct of the election campaign will ensure the legitimate continuation of the work already begun and implement the priority areas of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "said A. Sabitov.
About 20 yurts were planted on the central square, competitions in national sports were organized.
a charity event in Kazakhstan covered 10,000 people.
Today creative collectives of ethno-wrestlers are very popular in the region.
After the war, he improved his health, was engaged in sports, became the champion of the Republic of Kazakhstan in athletics and skiing.
According to the results of ski racing at a distance of 2.5 km, the first place among women is taken by Captain Kadyrova a.k., the second place is Sergeant D.A. Sadyrbaeva, the third place is captain e.m. ozboeva.
78 requests received by the CMR on 15 May of the current year are under consideration, the consideration period of which is from one working day to three working days from the date of acceptance.
because he made a great contribution to the popularization of the art of our multinational state, "said the mayor.
Most importantly, each of them must be intolerant of corruption and aware of the full responsibility that they bear in committing corruption crimes.
ethnographic and historical study of Kazakh life and traditional clothing allowed the abdubait to restore a single layer of historical artifacts.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of meetings of heads of state and government of the CIS countries, bilateral and multilateral negotiations.
In addition, by the decision of the committee representatives, the expenses of the republican budget for 2015 according to the updated plan and an increase in the volume of deficit by 7% will amount to 244.5 billion tenge.
in this regard, the main priorities common to the congress and gmm were noted, such as the promotion of a global dialogue between religions and cultures, the development of a culture of tolerance and mutual respect for hatred and extremism.
the focus is on the economic advancement of women, especially in rural areas.
began his career by feeding livestock in his native village.
in general, in this industry, the second place after the Kyzylorda capital in terms of per capita loss.
it is planned to open about 1000 jobs on the base.
in this regard, the focus should be on attracting investment, including focusing on attracting foreign funds.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the conversation K. Zhigalov and L. Elich emphasized the importance of bilateral trade and investment ties.
in particular, the development of modern trade and assistance in attracting a franchise.
at the same time, especially priority is given to projects implemented with the participation of foreign companies.
work is under way.
According to the Director of the Institute of Social and Political Studies, it was possible to devote time to revitalizing the elections.
Within the framework of the forum, scientists, economists, politicians will discuss the prospects of the global economy and the likelihood of rising oil prices.
Among the priority areas of activity of the Council of Business Women are support for promising business projects, consulting, exchange of experience of women entrepreneurs, ensuring the high image and prestige of women in Kazakhstan business among business circles abroad.
According to the head of the KTZ, since 2012, a service of urgent container trains has been organized to provide quality services.
with remote counselling, the result of an examination of train doctors, the current condition of the patient was fully studied, the preliminary diagnosis and treatment measures were adjusted.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by order of the Chairman of the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated January 26, 2015 No. 16/od, the following main elements of the high-precision satellite navigation system were put into operation (hereinafter - the system).
In addition, the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region and local enterprises signed 6 memoranda to stabilize the production of industrial products and the safety of jobs.
In conclusion, K. Massimov noted that Hungarian enterprises can work in the sphere of the national economy from the manufacturing industry to the processing of agricultural products.
initiative groups of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan operate on the ground under the chairmanship of akims of districts and cities.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on topical issues in the field of religion, discussed issues of state-confessional and interfaith relations.
its creation is the key to the effective implementation of reforms.
During the visit, the head of the region a. Batalov noted that the preparation and improvement of the airport is one of the main tasks.
To this end, such actions, which are currently being held throughout the country, are part of the respect for WWII veterans.
kmg "nabors drilling company" LLC was created as part of fulfillment of obligations to the Government of Kazakhstan of Tengizshevroil LLP specified in the corresponding memorandum of bilateral understanding.
excess gas is exported.
in the village, the applicant prepares an inert material, "said R. imankulov.
According to the ministry, the purpose of the competition is to find a sculptural and artistic solution to the monumental monument, symbolizing the historical significance of the creation of the Kazakh Khanate.
as a result, Kazakhstani society had high immunity from inter-ethnic crises.
thus, there is a different characteristic and true image of each officer.
eliminated the need for entrepreneurs to receive conclusions of the state fire service for 20 out of 21 licensed activities.
Kazakhstan Auto Business Association supports the initiative to hold early elections this year. the association is all in favor of snap presidential elections in 2015 .
given these factors, the timely and qualitative implementation of national reforms can be expected.
we are in solidarity with the victory of n.nazarbayev.	the president emphasized the implementation of the five institutional reforms .	0,56
The head of state emphasized that not a single veteran should be ignored in honor of the great victory.
Kazakhstan really should be an example, "he said.
every young voter is sure that he votes for the future of his state, it is important for everyone to make his choice.
In the future, full conditions will be created for the acquisition of knowledge by local students abroad; in 2015, the Eurasian Economic Union will begin to operate.
By the 70th anniversary of the Victory, everyone will be able to visit the exhibition, which will work all year round.
Nevertheless, the Central Asian countries are actively working to address the issues of prevention of statelessness and the emergence of new situations.
Currently, 1 kilometer of roads have been built in the region.
The institution of group management is also provided for business entities.
in this regard, he noted that the study of advanced foreign experience in the fields of combat training, personnel management, conscription and social security, joint exercises is a priority of the medium term, "said Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov, First Deputy Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, speaking at a meeting with military attachés.
it also serves as a clinical base for the training of specialists in cardiac surgery, cardioanesthesiology and health for many medical educational institutions in the country.
In addition, the head of state noted the need to increase state support for the agro-industrial complex as one of the anti-crisis measures.
In this regard, askhat daulbaev reported on the progress in the ratification of the interstate treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases.
to implement the terms of the agreement, coordinate the work of representative bodies and agree on requirements for participants in the integrated currency market based on the provisions of bilateral parties and global international practice, as well as for interbank conversion operations to form a competitive environment - the CIS body that carries out relations in the financial and foreign exchange market, the committee said.
Currently, about 5 thousand citizens of the country live in Dubai and the northern emirates, of which about one thousand are students.
Yessimov also noted that on December 1, 3 years have passed since the opening of the Almaty metro.
guests got acquainted with the peculiarities of Kazakh culture and enjoyed the Kazakh national taste.
there is a network of places of religious education at the level of lycées and colleges, which are funded by the State.
a code of conscience for military personnel was being drafted in that regard.
Following the meeting, its participants will be presented with expert opinions and recommendations on the introduction of the best world practices for the development of industrial sectors of Kazakhstan aimed at increasing their investment attractiveness.
The second place went to the South Kazakhstan poor Baurzhan, and the third place went to him from an unsustainable region.
During the meeting with the leadership of the Russian drama theater akim of the region noted that in Shymkent in recent years there has been a cultural revolution.
Today, the portfolio of meetings includes 66 bills related to economic and socially significant areas.
in addition, an agreement is expected to be signed to coordinate actions to protect rights in relation to intellectual property objects.
Within the framework of the forum, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the "execution" and the Austrian transnational company "kapchtrafficcom."
Hungarian partner - Hungarian export-import bank.
first of all, it is important to focus on transferring people with dollar loans to tenge. the next stage is a banking sector which is need raising standards for minimum reserve requirements , " hudayberdiyev added .
In turn, Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region will take part in the allocation of land with the necessary infrastructure.
in addition, the new concept provides for the improvement of animal conditions as far as possible.
the exploits of our fathers and the work of our mothers will forever be preserved in the memory of our people.
In order to simplify customs declarations and customs operations, a green corridor is planned this year through the introduction of a direct control mechanism and a system for controlling the movement and trade of goods.
N. Akkulov expressed confidence that this bilateral memorandum has important socio-economic significance for the city, which will positively affect the further improvement of rehabilitation.
a substantial decline in commodity prices.
More than 500 Kazakhstanis became heroes of the Soviet Union.
the information system allows committee employees to use a single information system in their work and reduces paper document circulation, ensures transparency of the committee's activities, "said the aliakpar of mothers.
We must raise children with our soldier's experience and spirit, "said the war veteran.
More than two hundred military personnel of military service are currently undergoing 6-month course training in the training centers of the cities of Taldykorgan and Priozersk, the report said.
During the festival, various information and image materials were distributed.
further, Foos answered questions from members of delegations regarding the legislative framework and practice of holding elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, about the progress of the campaign and the activity of candidates, as well as about the cooperation of the Central Election Commission in informing the population in the electoral period.
As Karim Massimov noted, Kazakhstan is completing the final stage of accession to the WTO.
The main task of the charity event is to identify the reasons that contribute to the termination of education or the prolonged non-participation of school-age children, prevent non-attendance for disrespectful reasons, as well as improve the quality of life of children living in low-income families, involve the public in charity activities aimed at providing material assistance to low-income and low-income families.
N.Nazarbayev noted that investment justice and the international arbitration center should, following the example of international experience, increase the attractiveness of the business climate in the country around the world.
The issues raised in the book are still relevant today, in addition, this work is now of great vital importance.
The event will last until December 31, 2015.
Next year, they will include another 3 hectares of greenhouse complexes.
Thus, the purpose of the seminar is to improve the election observation process, develop an understanding of the mission and goals of the public election observation commission.
According to the results of the audit conducted under the leadership of the chief of the main inspection of the km, Lieutenant General Kurban Karashanov, at best, sergeant of the 3rd class of Daydos Secbayev, senior sergeant Temir kazybek, sergeant ermak makhmetov and junior sergeant maulida appuzova were noted.
JSC Uralskagroremmash issued 110 units of special equipment worth 2.2 billion tenge.
And now our grandson is growing, and I hope that he will join the ranks of our labor dynasty, God forbid for this day, "said a representative of one of the labor dynasties talgat kostai.
the commander of the unit, Lieutenant Colonel Dauren Zadanov congratulated his wife, who remained for Major Vladimir, on the upcoming March.
kindergarten education is provided in the State language.
it will be broadcast on the central state television channel for a month.
It is worth noting that on this day at the entrance to the central park sports and mass events on wrestling in Kazakh language, Gir sport, darts, karate, togyzkumalaku and other sports were organized.
Kazis Zholdybayev was born in 1924 in the Astrakhan district of the Akmola region, in 1942 he was drafted into the army of the Soviet Union.
preservation of intellectual property rights since 2011 "took 42nd place in the global competitiveness index and rose from 116th to 74th place, ahead of Spain, Brazil, Russia and Georgia.
The new educational institution is planned to be commissioned on September 1 of this year.
It is worth noting that in May 2014, in order to implement the first stage of the project, the ITz-Kaik LLP plant was created, which is engaged in the production of mat tractors.
Voting for the President of Kazakhstan will begin at seven in the morning metropolitan time and will last until 20.00 in the evening.
:: Soboda spoke about the tasks and rules of the CIS observer mission and shared his preliminary impressions of the preparation and conduct of the extraordinary presidential elections in Kazakhstan.
Majilismen on this day will consider the changes made by the Senate on issues of energy conservation and energy efficiency, as well as housing relations.
a polling station was also organized here, arriving from different regions of the country and in order to prevent restrictions on the rights of citizens.
all this will allow to collect a lot of experience for future specialists.
the bill is aimed at improving the bill in the field of intellectual property, removing administrative barriers. the bill is aimed on further improving the legislation in the field of intellectual property , in particular through the elimination of legal gaps , contradictions , and exceptions of the rules that create the administrative barriers .
also developed an option for visually impaired people.
in the last election, we had about five thousand observers.
the activities of the civil aviation committee will focus on the models of the British state civil aviation agency and the aviation safety agency.
earlier it was reported that Akmol regional branch of the company began accepting applications.
In 2013, the linear part of the pipeline in the direction of bozoy-shymkent was completed, and this year the linear part in the direction of bozoy-bozoy will be completed.	in addition , gas pipeline beyneu-bozoy-shymkent is under the construction .	0,56
It is expected that a package of legislation will be submitted to the meeting.	kabibulla dzhakupov urged all deputies to work on legislative support .	0,56
in some regions, the coverage of settlements has been completed beyond the plan.	several regions over-fulfilled the plan .	0,56
Petr Fedorovich served in the fire department in Krasnoarmeysk for more than 20 years, and has been retired since November 1986.	an evidence of military glory of the veteran - the red star order , the world war order of the 2nd degree , the medal  for courage , " and many other state awards .
We opened a clinic at a military hospital.	the recruitment agencies also participated in the career fair .	0,56
Anatoly Vasilievich Komyakov was born in the Kostroma region of Russia.	anatoly komyakov was born in kostroma region in russia .	0,56
it remains only to wait for the decision of the IAC.	we need to wait for the decision of the ministry of justice .	0,56
in addition, the high technical capabilities of the aircraft make it possible to achieve a high level of training of the flight crew.	in addition , the technical capabilities of the aircraft will achieve a high level of aircrew training .	0,56
the standard of living in the country is constantly growing.	the standard of living in our country is growing steadily .	0,56
The contracted soldier and his family members are provided with housing or are compensated for their employment.	contractor and his family members are provided with housing or receive monetary compensation for his rent .	0,56
Also, Canadian officials participate with great interest in events organized in Kazakhstan on the theme of rapprochement of cultures and religions.	canadian representatives often participate in the events hosted in kazakhstan on the topic of dialogue of cultures and religions .	0,56
Due to the decline in oil refining in the region, special attention should be paid to the agricultural sector.	due to the decline in oil production the region should shift to agriculture , he said .	0,56
this is one of the activities of the holding to ensure maximum availability of financing for Kazakh agricultural producers, the report said.
Today, the priority supplier of maximum value added is the manufacturing industry. at present , the development of processing industry sectors is the priority , this provides high value .
During voting in 6 polling stations, I drew attention to the closeness of the ballot box, its seal and the attempts of voters to keep them. during the voting i paid attention to a closed box , seal , and the rules of conduct .
I ask you today to promote the ratification of the instruments of accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to Russia until the Kyrgyz parliament enters the summer holidays. i appeal to assist in the completion of the procedures for the ratification of the accession of kyrgyzstan to the eaeu until the summer parliamentary recess .
commemorative signs brought from Volokolamsk to the city of military glory of Russia.
in this regard, it was decided to conduct additional immunization.
Particular attention was paid to competition in the grain industry, on the basis of which trade in privately owned goods on the cross-border market is prohibited, the yeek website reports.
this approach is aimed at improving education, working together with colleagues from the University of Cambridge, organizing pedagogical practice and is recognized as a distinctive form of studying actions during classes.
this figure remained this year.
Microcredit is one of the effective mechanisms of employment.
Virtues, Khan Sultans and bi-batyrs of our country, adhering to traditions, from the very beginning trusted the descendants to bury themselves in the Khoja ahmet Yasaui mausoleum.
In addition, the parties discussed the implementation of the agreements reached at the meeting of the Kazakh-German intergovernmental commission on ethnic Germans on November 12, 2014 in Berlin.
More than 800 scientists from the world, representatives of civil society, students and other activists who participated in the conference were informed about the steam history and we see that during this time the organization has grown from 51 member States to 193 member States. during the information fair over hundred participants signed the online petition of the project atom with the appeal to the governments of the world to achieve the entry into force of the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty ( ctbt ) and make a new important step towards a world without nuclear weapons , " the mfa informed .
One of these legends is that this program should bring our country to the level of countries such as Germany, Japan, South Korea in 5 years.	as the chairman of the board said , it is necessary to understand our possibilities .	0,56
what are you afraid of, do not be afraid of.	we do not need to be afraid .	0,56
The provisions of the bill are aimed at improving the legal regulation of the development of water supply and sanitation in settlements.
At the end of the event, M. Sarsembayev noted that the election authorities need to ensure strict compliance with the norms of the electoral law and create all the necessary conditions for citizens to exercise their constitutional electoral rights.
In addition to Kazakh researchers, specialists from Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and the CIS countries took part in it.
modernization of activities should be aimed at developing free competition.
we support all your proposals at the ceremony!
In total, 76.8 billion tenge will be spent in the region and 71 projects with 6,699 jobs will be implemented.
In particular, Kazakhstanis were congratulated on the anniversary events, such as the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The cost of each of the 10 buses with a total capacity of 85 people, the length of which reaches 120 meters, is 85 thousand US dollars.
creation of the combined enterprise will allow to increase Kazakhstan's share, exchange experience from the Set company, obtain technology and management system, as well as effectively work as a drilling contractor on large oil and gas projects of Kazakhstan in the long term.
In order to control the command of the Commander-in-Chief of the ground forces, a center has been created to collect information on the presidential elections.
victory did not come to us with ease. dear veterans !
To date, 48 of them are operating at full capacity (from 70 to 100%).
there a white fireplace in the yurt and khan, who elected the khan, burst into tears and shared with the black people.
The reason for including a citizen in the list of voters at a particular polling station is the fact of his registration at his location in the territory of this polling station.
This year, the region is building a meat processing plant with a capacity of 7 thousand tons of meat per year and large feeding grounds.
Participation in this project was expressed by several enterprises in the region.
In addition, the youth of the region decided to create a public anti-corruption movement and concluded a memorandum with the anti-corruption service of the region.
In addition, in the Zaisan district of the East Kazakhstan region, the dam waterworks of the Jemen River and the water intake of the Bazaar River in the Tarbagatai district will be repaired.
then a solemn concert was held in honor of the heroes of the holiday, where songs of the war years were heard.
As part of the signing of the memoranda, the meeting participants got acquainted with the requirements of what products are needed for Kazzink LLP.
n. According to the city administration, the event is designed to demonstrate the activity of ethnic groups in learning the state language.
According to Majilis deputy Serik Sedumanov, the experience of developed countries shows that without values, national ideas accepted by the whole society, it is impossible to overcome great heights.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the modern production base and qualified specialists will allow the production of a number of types of reinforced concrete products.
On April 26, mission representatives visited 53 polling stations of the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, Kokshetau, Shymkent, Akmola and South Kazakhstan region.	the mission noted the high voting turnout and says that the work of precinct election commissions in the areas was conducted in accordance with the requirements of the election legislation of kazakhstan .	0,56
there are few presidents and public figures left in the world who understand their policies and support their decision.
In this regard, civil servants are tested in East Kazakhstan region.
turnout was 95.22%.
It will be organized on the basis of special points of its holding.
Every citizen who has attained the age of 18 in accordance with the Constitution and the electoral law has the right to vote in elections.
the program of the evening included the works of erkesh shakeev performed by the famous London symphony orchestra and master violinist marat bisengaliev.	according to the report , the evening 's program includes works of kazakh composer e. shakeyev by legendary london symphony orchestra and virtuoso violinist marat bisengaliyev .	0,56
Human Dimension Dialogue Platform. "
Peacekeepers' Day has long been celebrated in our country.
To date, the results of the study have been published in Europe.
this, in turn, leads to the complication of natural disasters.
in this regard, amendments are envisaged to the Civil Procedure and Administrative Codes on Administrative Offences.
after the flood, 16,171 people were evacuated.
participants in the qualifying round performed in various nominations.
Considering that we consume our electricity, the product of Araz LLP will be much cheaper, "said a representative of Araz LLP.
aa. Idrissov, speaking at the Conference on Disarmament, expressed Kazakhstan's position on topical issues on the agenda of the conference, noting that the forum has great potential to make a significant contribution to the disarmament process.
During the meeting, the deputy request of the Senator was announced to further improve the enforcement proceedings on effective mechanisms for the recovery of alimony.
to date, there have been no complaints or complaints from citizens regarding violations of the electoral law. there are no appeals , complaints , serious violations of the electoral legislation in the prosecutor 's office .
A special headquarters has been established in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and territorial bodies for the management of coordination. special headquarters on the management of coordination are developed in the ministry and territorial departments of internal affairs .
activists and representatives of youth organizations of the city of Aktau "cleared the coast of the Caspian Sea, organized various sports competitions, congratulated the townspeople on nauryz.
today the best architects of the country take part in the commission.
an impeccable justice system is a key tool of the state's effective anti-corruption policy - a fundamental tool of the rule of law system, "said the chairman of the supreme court, speaking at the opening of the council.
Representatives of the East Kazakhstan region are currently actively cooperating with this clinic.
this is not the most important indicator, of course, but we must overcome this line, "said N. Nazarbayev.
they feed mainly on small fish and various invertebrates.
the city has one of the largest industrial zones in the country.
In accordance with article 39, paragraph 2, of the constitutional law, persons in the polling station are obliged to strictly observe the rules established by the voting commission.
The length of the pipeline to the green area is only 5 kilometers.
friendly and partnership relations are being built on it.
It is worth noting that the decisions of military units and ties relate to military certification measures as the most important measure.
the head of the center, Professor Rakhimzhanova, drew the attention of members of the national commission to the fact that in the country there are cases of cancer of women in 1 place.
there really should be a strong park here.
it should be noted that in the second year of the consulate, the scientific library gives a large number of recent publications.
The press conference was attended by the Director of the National Center for the Formation of a Healthy Lifestyle, Professor Zhamil Battakova, Chairman of the World Health Organization of Kazakhstan Melita Vuynovich, specialist of the European Tobacco Control Program Winkhoven, Director of the National Center for Research-Inquiry of National Statistics of Kazakhstan EldGangambayev and head of the press service of the National Center AlAlAl.
Recall that on 3 thousand retail objects of the region posted more than 5 thousand posters and stickers with the logo of the action.
famous domestic artists and creative groups performed at the concert.
lamps exceeding human ones are decorated with Arabic inscriptions.
The main task is to ensure the export of up to half of the products produced to the CIS market in a three-year period.
According to the head of the regional head of health care, Asset Kaliev, the new part is not a hospice, where support therapy is constantly available for those who do not need hospital treatment.
strengthening the fight against corruption, as well as the creation of a special anti-corruption department for the systematic prevention and rehabilitation of corruption offenses in the structure of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption with the development of new legislation.
On April 21, administrative proceedings were discontinued due to the absence of cases of an offense.
Last year, 212.7 thousand people applied to employment centers for participation in the program, the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
the customer and organizer of housing construction is the national company Ertis Akk.
They include retail and wholesale trade, hotel, restaurant, construction, agriculture and other services.
The meeting chaired by akim of the capital adilbek dzhaksybekov was attended by heads of universities and heads of city structures.
As for history, this is the way.
This year the train served residents of Kazalinsky district of Kyzylorda region.
The honorary mission of laying a capsule with a message on the foundation of the monument went to the WWII veteran, honorary citizen of Zhambyl region Uatay Alimkhodzhaev.
According to him, the state is intensifying the policy of protecting the family and children.
My colleague and I chose our sites to visit.
in particular, the department of the ground military chief, the airborne assault brigade and the republican school "zhas ulan."
Mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is an important element in the fight against crime and offers ample opportunities to deepen cooperation.
the purpose of the protocol is to exempt from value added tax the supply of goods, as well as the performance of works and services under contracts concluded under the agreement, from the date of entry into force of this Agreement until December 31, 2020 by amending it and supplementing it.
work in this direction should be carried out on the basis of various projects of medical training in the field of health, social sphere, informatization of society.
The Supreme Court of Kazakhstan has proposed a number of measures to strengthen the institution of judicial protection and private property.
In turn, Juzhana Yakab shared his opinion that opening an office in Kazakhstan is a unique role in healthcare at the global level.
the first spring tree planting in the village was a real holiday.
special attention was paid to the ethics of the conduct of observers at polling stations.
Mayor of Almaty stressed that unity and mutual understanding of the people are the most important value.
Lieutenant Colonel and shutter does not hide the fact that such gaps have gone in the USSR, which may affect other veterans.
resource-p "was put into orbit, delivered to the GP.
We are endlessly glad that we can be useful to society.
Depending on the type of assistance provided, the aid provider decides to send the assistance team to provide them with the necessary materials.
In the region, which the head of state called the "mother of Alash," good and good deeds, he will hand the Karaganda with a desire to replenish and continue this Taikazan.
we are always proud that the evil enemies of humanity are the descendants of the heroes who destroyed fascism, "said the head of the region.
On the same day, a delegation of the Kazakh embassy took part in a memorial rally held by the mayor of the city of trieste in the walls of the former Nazi concentration camp "riziera di saba" and laid flowers in honor of the victims of the Nazi regime.
mannequins were imported from Russia.
According to the representative of the ombudsman, society and the garden closely monitor the quality of public services, while reform is a timely measure.
Tokayev expressed satisfaction with the dynamic development of Kazakh-Afghan cooperation.
in the team competition in the history of college sports, the national team of Kazakhstan took 3rd place after Russia and South Korea.
The structural agreement between the religious association and the State is the main instrument for preserving national harmony and preventing religious extremism and terrorism in the country.
as a result of this unity, we won.
It is worth noting that in order to close the pension gap between employees of armed groups in 2016, a one-time recalculation will be carried out.
therefore, it does not come out of the confidence of the participants in the trial and contributes to the emergence of manifestations related to corruption in the judicial system itself, "said B. Nazarov.
Following the meeting, representatives of the states agreed on the service and training of es145 helicopters, for which 1.5 million euros were spent.
conflicts of a new type have become a great criticism for the world security system, haphazard players have appeared on the world stage using extremism and violence.
He also noted the importance of consistent work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the main long-term foreign policy initiatives.
In honor of Defender of the Fatherland Day, a book will be presented about the heroes of the Soviet Union, Kazakhstanis awarded the Order of the National Hero and Glory.
It should be noted that cultural events dedicated to the March holiday are widely celebrated in all areas of the region.
nor does the metalworking industry remain.
That is, when holding significant events this year, we must make efforts to ensure that funds are organized not only in luxury, but also in educational terms for the younger generation, "said Maulen Ashimbayev.
and we are holding events to ensure that each cultural center contributes.
In addition, during the ceremony in the presidential library named after N.N. Yeltsin opened the exhibition "We won because we were together," during which the attention of the audience was shown that in 1941-1945. Newsreels, photographs, historical documents depicting the era of the Patriotic War are presented.
and vocational training will continue in the third direction.
in the conditions of today's communication, I do not think that it will affect the Almaty business so much that, on the contrary, the relocation of banks here will be very costly for them.
Summing up the meeting, B. Saparbayev noted that maintaining social stability is one of the main tasks of the heads of regions.
The college has a dormitory and a workshop with 200 seats.
I think such competitions should be held more often.
the country now maintains a steady pace of development.
it was the pinnacle of national support, "said the Kazakhstan Academy of Sciences.
The bill "On private detective activity" is proposed in the first reading with accompanying amendments.
as a custodian of educational information, we assume that data in the form of requests, education and methods should be published by the financial academy. we will gradually give all the educational , methodical and reference information .
sale or lease, or use as an administrative building of ministries and government departments.
aa. Speaking at the opening ceremony of athletics competitions, ulegenov noted that the Great Patriotic War was the most tragic event in the history of the Soviet people, and also that the war was a vivid example of the unity, integrity of representatives of various peoples and nationalities who showed military brotherhood, unprecedented courage and courage.
Both well-known writers and amateur authors took part in the competition.
in many ways, Kazakh girls experienced difficulties and constantly showed themselves. in times full of difficulties they confronted the difficulties demonstrating their determination and perseverance .
whitewash is a young, beautiful city.
there were no such transport facilities in Soviet times.
stabilizing or lowering copper prices does not affect investment programs.
tank biathlon as a form of competition was created in later times and became the property of the public.
at the meetings of the advisory council, topical issues of forming an agreed policy in the areas of labor migration and ensuring the free movement of labor resources in the EAEU space will be discussed.
the third stage is the process carried out on the territory of the ground forces.
Therefore, it was proposed to rename the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan to the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
The names of the winners will be announced on April 20.
The exhibition of the second direction is dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
to a meeting on behalf of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Georgia, members of the CEC of Georgia, Javakhadze and Chikaiberidze.
As the head of state noted, thanks to these qualities, Mr. Golovkin earned the title of one of the strongest boxers on the planet.
here the department of the assembly in the kmu named after Kurkut ata opened.
According to the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the bill is aimed at improving state regulation and management of health care, improving health and prolonging the life of the population, improving drug policy.
the reform will make the judicial system fair, accessible to investors, the inviolability of private property will be stopped, "the head of state said.
I fully understand that it is necessary to help the agricultural industry, all states support this industry.
One of the main criteria for assessing the performance of local executive bodies as part of the transition to the principle of remuneration should be the work of attracting investment.
at the opening of the course, the deputy chairman of the Committee on Emergency Situations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General Zhumashev, spoke on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and on behalf of the NTO - the head of the civil protection group.
It is worth noting that in the Karasai region there are Chinese investments that were invested in the activities of Kelun-kazpharm LLP.
in his opinion, the issue can be resolved by creating a commission on ethics or, accordingly, the formation of a code of ethics for a scientist.
Including us, representatives of the education sector, try not to forget about your exploits before the younger generation, "said the Vice Minister of Education and Science.
thirty enterprises in the act looked for the specialists they needed.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, these achievements are another successful step towards the implementation of the standards necessary for obtaining tickets to the World Cup and the Paralympic Games.
1,330.8 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, which is 14.5% higher than in 2013.
The art of the capital's cheese darya liga was very pleasant to the audience.
in particular, the head of the Kazakh department proposed establishing long-term relations between the leading enterprises of the two countries in the manufacture of sports instruments and musical instruments.
The parties noted that the holding of such a global forum was a serious step in the preparation of appropriate measures to prevent the risks of the new world.
The main show of the holiday is a floral carpet of flowers and natural materials with a total area of ​ ​ 450 sq.m.
the draft law was developed in order to bring the norms of national legislation into line with the treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union and the agreements of the world trade organization.
A panel of judges led by Yu.erikson, invited from Sweden, appeared in the arbitration.
The experience of Kyzylorda region, which signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 8 projects totaling 63 billion tenge, is an example for other regions, "First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B. Sagintayev said.
Team members who won the grand prix received ultraviolet light.
The author of the monument to the reverse ship, the leon, in his creative work, proudly reflected the heroism of slaves and fighters against slavery.
but there are a number of issues in this regard.
exact time of shelling and immersion of the Sun.
As the Governor of the region noted, within the framework of the memorandum, active work with subsoil users of the region will be established.
In addition, this year the road will be overhauled from the white Kokshetauminsu plant to rmk on the right of economic management of Kokshetau Heat worth 38.3 million tenge, Naberezhnaya street worth 95.2 million tenge, Victory street worth 300.3 million tenge, Satpayev street worth 297.4 million tenge.
As V.Guminsky noted, there are no violations at the polling station, everything passes in accordance with the norms.
its area is 1300 m2.
today there are already 20 of them.
this also means a developed trend in technology.
Implementation of a three-stage selection system.
The main goal of the industry was the introduction of the Australian method.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the American side.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the festival of creativity of people with disabilities is held in all regions of the country for the tenth time.
The main content of the exhibition is scheduled for May 22.	east kazakhstan is one of the leading regions in innovations .	0,57
all this was achieved thanks to unity and stability.	all this was achieved thanks to the unity and stability .	0,57
According to the Ministry of Defense, within a month the military passes tests according to the combined arms decree of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	according to the defence ministry , during the month the soldiers pass tests on knowledge of military regulations of af rk and their duties , as well as physical , fire , timber and other types of training .	0,57
such support increased the activity of entrepreneurs in the development of irrigated land.	such support has caused the activity of the entrepreneurs to develop the irrigated land .	0,57
to do this, it is necessary to install parametric wells, at present issues of additional financing necessary for their installation are being resolved.	it 's necessary to set the parameter wells , now the issue of co-financing of their installation is addressed .	0,57
After the announcement of the election results of N. Nazarbayev, who won 97.5% of the vote, an honorary citizen of Kokshetau, a veteran of medicine, addressed the population.	also took the floor directly youth representatives - creative , with active citizenship .	0,57
the Germans found him and sent him to a German concentration camp.	the germans found him , operated and placed in a concentration camp in germany , then he was sent to a concentration camp in italy .	0,57
The first participants of the action presented the museum with valuable artifacts, historical artifacts and memorabilia used by famous persons.	the first participants of the campaign have already donated to the museum valuable exhibits , historical artifacts and memorabilia that belonged to famous personalities .	0,57
because his many years of experience and qualifications are always needed by the country.	following the retirement worked during the harvesting campaigns .	0,57
increased efficiency of water wells, optimized process modes of water transfer.	as a result levels of physical depreciation and normative losses in networks of jsc  akbulak " reduced , water wells productivity increased and pumping water conditions optimized .
K. Mami expressed confidence that the presidium will provide new approaches to the implementation of measures to improve judicial activities and called on members of the presidium to work effectively and productively, the report said.
Danasuvan highly appreciated Kazakhstan's international initiatives in the field of sustainable development.
Adaulbaev informed about the measures taken in the country to counter drug trafficking in the framework of the sectoral program to combat drug addiction and drug trafficking, and also emphasized the importance of conducting training seminars and training for law enforcement officers and special services of Kazakhstan at the Academy of Drug Control Administration located in Quantico.
this practice in both cities showed the creation of a similar court in other regions.
activity is very high.	it is very big .	0,57
R. Zhoshybayev informed about the upcoming preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana, noting that this event will become a driver of tourism development for Kazakhstan and the entire region.	the meeting discussed bilateral cooperation and interaction at the international scene .	0,57
The annual message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan gives a new impetus and power to all Kazakhstanis.	according to the chairman of the board of veterans of north kazakhstan region , today the most valuable thing of the independent kazakhstan marks the 23rd anniversary .	0,57
At the end of the forum, it is planned to adopt a resolution on advice on increasing the competitiveness of Kazakh sports on the world stage and creating favorable conditions for physical education and sports in the country.	following the results of the forum it is planned to adopt a resolution of the forum , which will announce recommendations to improve the competitiveness of kazakhstan on the world sports arena and create favorable conditions for the development of the sports movement in the country .	0,57
mutual trade turnover doubled from 2010 to 2013.	in 2010-2013 the mutual trade turnover increased twice .	0,57
this will significantly increase the volume of production of the engineering industry.	it will significantly increase the volume of production in the engineering industry .	0,57
Young people aged 14 to 29 can take part in the competition.	the competition is open to young people between 14 and 29 years old .	0,57
We are pleased with the level of partnership and cooperation achieved in recent years, especially in the areas of inclusive development, governance and the protection of the rights of women and children.	i wish you success and hope for further cooperation .
each person made his choice on that day.
we did not have any specific criteria.
The Head of Kazakhstan, noting that the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Tatarstan is only 3-4% of the volume of trade with Russia, considers it necessary to increase this share, stressed that the current global crisis requires cooperation, especially in the field of investment, agriculture, science and technology.
the technical support of medical organizations under the control of local executive bodies is carried out at the expense of the latter.
the metropolis is at the forefront of all the changes taking place in the republic and becomes the center of all socio-political events. almaty was and remains in the forefront of changes in the country , in the midst of social and political events .
In addition, according to N. Yerimbetov, through the portal you can help a specific veteran with his address.
This practice began in the UK and France.
Therefore, on a joint initiative, the Governor's Office of Almaty and JSC "Enterprise Development" signed a memorandum on the regional program of financing private business entities.
At the end of the year, housing with a total area of ​ ​ 19.04 thousand square meters was commissioned, which is 244.2% of the plan.
In the city of Xi'an, Shenxi province of China, the governor of Zhambyl region met with the chairman of the people's government of Shaanxi province lu Qinjiang.
the railway industry used little rotation concentration, which is related to China, which reduced their volume, and the demand for our raw materials decreased.
As the political scientist noted, a modernization commission was recently created, which will allow all important tasks to be realized.
the project was immediately supported by local authorities.
The purpose of the action is to honor the exploits and merits of veterans, to modernize the memory of offspring in memory of a great victory.
we must look in the cultural world for our ties to history.
today, Kazakhstani pilots and technicians have fully mastered them.
immunoeducation is one of the measures that bring a lot of benefits to health and a particular person, even to the entire population. immunization provides large positive results for the health and well-being for the general population .
The event is aimed at the correct upbringing of the younger generation, increasing patriotism, maintaining the passion of gifted children for knowledge.
Recall that in January last year, a memorandum was concluded between the prosecutor's office of the capital and the capital's chamber of entrepreneurs in the field of protecting the rights of entrepreneurs.
According to the Vice-Rector, in our country all practical measures have been taken to ensure employment, development of education and health care.
According to the ministry, many veterans, who over time became rare, on this day could not attend the celebrations themselves.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister emphasized the peaceful nature of the activity, its readiness and position to resolve any issues in a constructive, peaceful and political way, "the statement said.
workers of various enterprises.
in total, about 20,000 terms were discussed at such meetings.
This is used by students when choosing a profession in the future.
hope stepanovna places him in the medical sanitary battalion.
Completion of development and implementation of corporate safety standards in 2015, ensuring that state airports obtain isago certification in 2015-2017 using aviation safety technologies and know-how of the best global industries.
for example, representatives of governments or organizations participated in the vote count, which, in turn, popularize the transparency and purity of elections.
we are against a decline in economic growth. at this difficult time , the heavy industry , especially the mining industry , decreases production volume and cuts job places .
There are a lot of things that connect us.
Today, a resident of the city, a veteran of World War II, congratulated the head of the city education department on her birthday.
pre-design work on the construction of nuclear power plants in the area of ​ ​ the city of Kurchatov and the large village of Almaty region will continue.
the parties noted "great opportunities for increasing the interoperability of the armed forces of the two countries in conducting joint exercises, exchanging experience in improving combat training."
the volume of the first batch amounted to 500 kg, which according to the banking standard equals 99.99% of the sample, the cost is 21 million US dollars.
The number of cases heard by the judicial jury against judges decreased by 20 per cent and cases of disciplinary action by 14.3 per cent.
According to its results, the Asian Development Bank expressed its readiness to create apech as technical support and transformation on the basis of the fund of financial support for agriculture, "said K. Nskenbayev.
It is necessary to clearly explain to the people that we began to save on everything.
therefore, much work remains to be done.
the state of our country in these two poles is a real "golden distance."
from the Glory Memorial in the central garden of Kapchagai, a capsule with soil was erected in a solemn atmosphere, a memorial plaque was erected and eternal fire was lit.
Recall that the exercises of the "steppe eagle" are aimed at achieving interoperability of the "kazbrig" during peacekeeping operations.
currently Zhambyl region occupies a leading position in the republic in the development and use of alternative energy sources.
physically we did not reach all veterans, their 4,700 people, the main reason is that they were not at home.	according to him , about 100 real lives were saved in the short period of time when the project was implemented in kazakhstan .	0,57
It is worth noting that the project is included in the industrialization map.	it should be noted the projects is a part of the industrialization map .	0,57
within the framework of this program, work is underway in 5 main areas.	a corporate management system is forming in the educational institutions .	0,57
The first place was taken by a family of shooters from the Kosembai school of the Wilsky district.	shutenov ' family from kosembay school of uil district gained the lead in a race .	0,57
the exhibition complex will become an example of a well-thought-out innovative city.	exhibition complex will be a visual concept of a well thought out innovation campus .	0,57
state-owned companies should not have demand for dollars, except for size.	according to the government , the exchange fluctuation of tenge is not expected in 2015 year .	0,57
it will increase the volume of production and increase the potential for production in near abroad.	in the future , it will result in the increase of the range of the products , exports to the neighboring countries , the increase of the stuff .	0,57
creation of a central network for receiving and processing tax returns.	43 . establishment of centres for processing tax declarations .	0,57
Also, since the beginning of the session, 22 international agreements have been ratified.	a law on public administration system 's further improving adopted as a priority .	0,57
a total of 16,171 people were evacuated during the flood.	since the beginning of the flood period 16,171 people were evacuated .	0,57
Introduction of English as an official language in the financial centre.	72 . making english the official language of the financial center .	0,57
under each figure, the name of the veteran or soldier is recorded.	the first and surname of a veteran and soldier will be placed under each photo .	0,57
a separate 4-story building for 6 departures of the fire station.	the material base meets international standards .	0,57
During the event, a protocol was signed on the intention of Hinhua Sky Camel Biologist devolopment ltd to open a joint venture for the production of camel milk in powder.
And the method of Kazakhstanis allows representatives of state bodies to clearly determine in which areas corruption is located and take appropriate measures, "said Ricardo Pelizzo.
According to the sales schedule for April 16, 106 objects are subject to privatization for national companies and holdings in 2014-2015. Of the planned 69 objects, 64 objects are put up for auction, including 37 objects sold.
potato yield was 310c per hectare.
It is noted that in order to verify the arguments of the applicants present at the previous reception of the Prosecutor General, the Prosecutor General's Office canceled the decisions of the criminal prosecution authorities and opened a pre-trial investigation.
this idea is caused by foreign experience.
in addition, by decree of the bureau of the upper house, a number of employees of the apparatus were awarded an honorary certificate of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I should have five institutional reforms that I have proposed.
concert programs have become a real holiday of folk art.
Pay increases for public servants depending on their performance.
9 deputies will be sent to parliament on behalf of the assembly.
completed the final speech with the wish of a veteran of a long life.
all proposals were sent to the revenue committee of the Ministry of Finance.
The round table was attended by representatives of the intelligentsia of the region, professors-teachers of higher educational institutions, heads of ethnocultural associations, specialists of research centers, heads of public organizations and student youth.
All the materials delivered here are prepared by the museum staff and now you see the materials with your own eyes, "said the compiler of the exhibition concept.
as a result of the proposals, sustainable enterprise development will be achieved and an optimal transport and logistics system for trade in products of construction materials, including export transportation, will be created. it is expected to implement the recommendations , to ensure the sustainable development of enterprises , and to create an optimal transport and logistics system for the production of building materials sales , including exports .
Despite various weather phenomena, such as snow and rain, frost and blizzard, you always need to be ready for the training mission, not embarrassing the commander and colleagues, "says the dinara of the trotter.
the library has already conducted study tours for guests and foreign delegations from the regions of the country, including heads of state.
This gives reason for our country to establish a fund of points necessary for the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016.
our country has created all favorable conditions for the activities of various religious denominations, mobilizing all representatives of religions in common interests.
Also, 45 teachers will work in the team.
According to the representatives of the akimat, the ski base is intended for competitions in several winter sports and meets world requirements.
this is higher than last year's figure.
On April 2, Member of the Senate of Parliament Serik Bilalov and Deputy of the Majilis Free Frames took part in the first meeting of the Commission on the Environment and Natural Resources of the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic-speaking Countries in Ankara.
there will be a trade in vegetables and fruits.
all children with disabilities received gifts from sponsors.
Kabibulla Jakupov expressed confidence that the intergovernmental agreement on water disposal being developed will serve the interests of the two countries.
According to its results, Ilyin and Tatyana Kiashirina were recognized as the best weightlifter of 2014.
after the specified time, calls are charged at a special share rate (0.4 tenge per second), "the company said.
Appropriate amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure.
German colleagues became interested in this document.
the city of Oulu is the capital of northern Scandinavia.
By the Order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Approval of the Rules for State Registration and Registration of Certain Types of Vehicles according to the Identification Number of the Vehicle," the requirements for issuing a certificate of the owner of the vehicle on the safety of vehicle assembly during the initial registration of the vehicle in operation were taken into account.
the main purpose of the event is to increase the practical skills of the headquarters of the Kazakhstan peacekeeping brigade and the Kazakhstan peacekeeping battalion during peacekeeping operations, as well as the combat compatibility of units when performing peacekeeping operations in conflict between the warring parties.
Chairman of the Administrative Police Committee of the Ministry of internal Lepeha made a presentation in which he noted the relevance of road safety problems in connection with the dynamic development of the country's road fleet at the current stage of development of society, that is, the achievement of 4.5 million units of transport to date.
The main thing that veterans of the Great Patriotic War say is that there is no happiness that exceeds the well-being of the country, peaceful life.
The Prosecutor General reported that a single register of pre-trial investigations has been launched and is in operation in all regions of the Republic.
Mayor of the city noted that thanks to the constructive policy of the head of state, all conditions for Kazakhstanis are created in the country, including for veterans.
thus, the construction company will have the opportunity to build houses at cheap prices.
The purpose of the competition is to popularize and preserve the literary values ​ ​ of the great abai kunanbaev, patriotic education of young people through his works, and increase the creative potential of young people.
it all depends on our work.	in this case everything will depend on us .	0,57
Aktobemunaigas increased white gas production by 45.3%, and Voskhod Oriel by 41.4%, "the report said.
13,375 people returned home.
the program ensures stability and predictability of tariffs.
In the section of the Kazakh Khanate, the genealogy of Kazakh khans, artifacts from the funds of the national museum related to the spiritual and material culture of the Kazakh people of the XVI-XVIII centuries, documentary discoveries and historical research, scientific works of leading domestic and foreign scientists on the creation of the Kazakh Khanate will be presented to users.
Akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov also took part in the citywide subbotnik.
pilot instructors will share their rich experience with the younger generation.
today's assembly is a bright result of the far-sighted policy of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.	the event was attended by the members of the apk ekr , the heads of ethnocultural associations , director of friendship houses , veterans , elders , youth , government representatives , the media ,  - the statement reads .
6 of them are on the island and 2 in the state district.
The innovative Eurasian University makes a significant contribution to the achievements of our graduates, "said the head of the methodological cabinet of the education department of Pavlodar. nurakhmetov, speaking of scientific and methodological support for pedagogical activities at school.
a person's lack of immunity against any disease leads to malignant neoplasms and mortality.
in particular, participants in international competitions marched, overcame ground and water obstacles, fired with certain weapons at various targets at a distance of 900-2200 m.
a decade would raise public awareness of the importance of healthy eating for the preservation and promotion of the health of the younger generation.
when providing medical care to residents of remote settlements, ultrasound examinations and speed laboratories are provided, which are required to establish an accurate diagnosis.
the diamond badge created at the academy is the highest form of public respect and professional skill in engineering.
thanks to the achievements of modern science, we are now very close to opening our common home, "concludes the Norwegian historian sturl ellingvag (sturla ellingorg).
Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of the Department of Educational and Ideological Work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Mukhamedzhan Talasov noted that this concert was organized in order to increase the morale of the parade participants and cause a sense of pride.
According to the head of the entrepreneurship department, modern Kazakhstan is a state with great authority on the world stage.
in the evaluation works taking into account the transportation of non-transport organizations and individuals engaged in commercial transportation and freight transport.
The concerts were attended by veterans of the Great Patriotic War and fans of musical art, as well as concerts were organized in the strongest concert halls of the country.
creation of navigation center to enhance navigation safety. it 's planned to create a navigation center .
a memorandum was signed to identify any violations by major manufacturers. the memorandum was signed to prevent violations of the largest producers .
At the same time, the Kazakh model of representation of deputies in parliament did not go unnoticed by other foreign countries.
B. Aytimova noted that Kazakhstani youth should understand global problems.
thanks to the efficient and qualitative growth of the economy, the capital for the first time in its history has reached a self-sufficient level.
today, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has high expectations. there are high hopes for the asian development bank , which has already been created .
the leaders of the two countries discussed the situation in southeastern Ukraine.
the rest is planned to be brought to September.
Within the framework of the training, the international experience of assessing the efficiency of ships was studied, in particular, the experience of the Netherlands, Singapore, kum, Finland and other countries, as well as the Kazakhstan model of assessing the performance of ships.
the conclusion of agreements on such memoranda is caused by the support of domestic business. the signing of memoranda and agreements with the domestic producers , as well as contractors is motivated by a desire to support local businesses .
Activities carried out within the framework of the World Health Organization are aimed at increasing the responsibility of citizens for preserving and strengthening their health from birth to old age, improving the quality of life and developing a healthy lifestyle, health skills that contribute to longevity.
In turn, he, according to the parties, will train specialists with mobile, constructive, innovative thinking, which, in turn, will contribute to significant accelerated development from the structural divisions of the rail plant.
these negotiations and conversations intensified in late autumn.
this will contribute to the development of medical tourism in the region.
when you click it, the veteran can send a signal to the help center.
During the event, flowers were laid at the monuments to the poet from the village of Uzynagash and Tlendiev nurgis.
the building is expanded and the service area is divided into two.
Since the 1980s, the city has boasted significant research in the field of information and computer technology.
we plan to bring the number of observers to the number of polling stations, that is, they should be 10 thousand.
gold quality prize - a unique project that will give impetus to the development of domestic enterprises.
Governor of Kyzylorda region thanked the Crimean Tatar people for the activity shown in the political campaign and noted that the victory of the Head of State in yesterday's elections is a common joy for everyone.
parents are offered methods designed to increase adolescent stress, reduce pressure and inflammation.
In case of absence of the voter's name on the list or assumption of inaccuracies in the data on it, the voter may request his inclusion in the list or make the necessary corrections on the basis of the specified documents.
Ensuring a balance between the accused and the defence counsel before the court by ensuring the gradual transfer of powers to the investigating judge in all investigative activities that restrict the constitutional rights of individuals and citizens.
the new medical institution is equipped with modern technology that allows conducting complex studies there without visiting the regional center.
if the length of service is 20 years, then the payment will be about 70% of the subsistence minimum, and if 35 years and more, then it will be 1 subsistence minimum, "he continued.
On behalf of the Republic of Belarus, I want to congratulate Kazakhstan on its victory and wish peace.
a group of foreign inspectors was accompanied and represented by officers of the center for the control and inspection of weapons of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Work on high-quality legislative support for the strategic tasks of the head of state on the way to an "eternal country."
In 2014 he graduated from Aktobe Law Institute.
he recalled with special respect the years of his daily work, and asked his longtime colleagues.
Thus, at the kiosh 2015 conference, the main directions of improving the system of industrial process management and labor safety were discussed.
According to the Governor's Office, in Akmola the perinatal center could not accept patients from the district.
Pavlodar region cannot immediately visit the people, and we opened a platform in the capital, where not only lovers of art and history, but also investors are attracted.
The event is dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate in order to further develop the national culture of peoples.
this can be called a interest-free loan.	there is an individual approach to every customer .	0,58
According to the NPP of Kazakhstan, the leadership of the National Chamber and the government are interested in expanding the space of cooperation with Kazakh or private investors.	given the high potential and the urgent need for the implementation of ppp in a variety of industries , nce will intensify its role in this process .	0,58
you give us the opportunity to create creative works.	it is you who has given us the opportunity to exercise our talent .	0,58
we are building a network of roads from the capital of the country to the regions on the basis of noise.	we will build a network of roads from the capital to the regions .	0,58
As part of the train that left the capital on March 23, members of parliament, representatives of ministries and departments, as well as employees of a number of national companies, art stars and well-known public, statesmen.	among the passengers of the train , which launched on march 23 from the capital , there are : deputies , members of  nur otan " and the apk , experts of ministries of agriculture , internal affairs , justice , investment and development of kazakhstan , education and science , health and social development and social workers and representatives of the national chamber of entrepreneurs , " nc " kazakhstan temir zholy " jsc , national academic library of the republic of kazakhstan , artists .
the implementation of the planned measures will contribute to laying the legal foundations for the development of industrial cooperation of the eurozone countries in the field of light industry.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in accordance with the procedure approved by the Eurasian Economic Commission, comments and proposals from interested parties on technical regulations are sent to the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation - the developer of this document.
now the state is building social rental housing and offering it for long-term rent with the right to buy back to the population.
He also noted that in the next 4 years, the department developed a roadmap for the exchange of information with other information systems.
and access to state leadership, garden and society, professionalism and dignity of the center's employees: collecting highly qualified, experienced scientists and experts, attracting recognized specialists in the field of research;
here our team has to compete with authoritative army athletes from the countries of the commonwealth of independent states.
the contribution of the assembly to the country is assessed at a very high level.
of which 12 are financial, 8 are non-financial.
The head of state also noted that the allocated funds should be used in the regions in a timely manner.
It is our countries that bear the brunt of war.
collected good warm clothes for the children.
during the construction of facilities, the creation of 3,634 jobs is provided.
their training is carried out in seven areas.
As the deputy of the Senate of Parliament noted, the funds allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture will be deducted for a late period.
- Performing these tasks, the troops pass the standards and during the camp training, the reconnaissance units not only train, develop skills, but also pass the tests at the price.
Also, on the eve of the new year, 4 trading establishments with the logo "low prices" were opened.
joint borders between the states of the customs union were transparent for unhindered crossing by citizens of our countries, for the movement of goods and goods, currency funds. twenty years ago i have voiced out the initiative on the eurasian economic union 's establishment lecturing at lomonosov moscow state university .
Also during the session, Tajikistan, which took the chairmanship of the organization from Russia, introduced priority areas of activity next year.
the rules of the agreement on confidential information apply to commission employees who have access to classified information as part of the consideration of applications (materials) for violation of competition rules, investigation of violations of competition rules, consideration of cases of violation of competition rules, as well as other procedural actions related to the implementation of control over compliance with competition rules, the committee said.
in addition, the assortment of products of the enterprise has increased.
Recall that the deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the deputy chairman of the Senate, the deputy chairman of the public association of the Association of Russian, Kazakh, Slavic organizations of Kazakhstan, Anatoly Shokhmakov and the chairman of the public association of the Karelian-Finnish etonda of the center Alexander smirnov.
Having familiarized with the work of the center, Deputy Governor of the region N. Godunova noted that it is here that changes and the implementation of the development plan of the region are traced.
they were coordinators of the traditional rite, opened the face of the bride at weddings, blessed wedding tables, went to the center of events related to the birth of children and the transition of people from one to the other, "the report said.
The following major measures for the kha year are included in the plan of kha gst in the Mangistau region, for example, the opening of a depository in the kmtiu library based on the scientific works of Sh.esenov. in the field of inter-ethnic harmony and interfaith relations, cultural diversity of the Mangistau region, "said the Botabek adilbek.
this is the contribution of our citizens to the development of our country's economy, "the head of state said, recalling the need for all contractors to use all opportunities at the expense of Kazakhstan's resources.
Our partners and I discussed how to continue to distribute monetary policy.
During the chairmanship of Kazakhstan, several important international events take place: in August 2015, Japanese Hiroshima and Nagasaki turn 70 years old, in 2016 - 10 years since the opening of the Semipalatinsk Treaty on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, the report said.
Veterans in line in the region will be provided with apartments for a month.
According to the central election commission, until 10.00 a.m. about 20% voters made their choice.
According to the Ministry of Defense, this stage in the new academic year is the first step in the system of developing combat coordination of units.
it was now important to be able to make the most of the resources available to deal with the effects of the economic crisis.
It is planned to put into operation in Almaty by the end of the year, "Engsebayev said.
As honored guests of the event, the deputy of the Bundestag axel fisher and the former deputy of the European Parliament Elizabeth took part.
the telegram says that the victory in a duel with Martin Murray is another fruit of determination, hard work and high skill.
according to representatives of nuclear and energy control and supervision, the company has installed modern equipment for cleaning from dust and gas.
As the Vice Minister noted, farmers are covered with everything necessary, but hunger cannot affect the crops in each farm.
the competition was attended by students from all secondary schools of the region.
the international expert, despite numerous opinions, noted that even with the harm from vaccinations against measles, it is millions of times less than from infectious diseases, the dsadm said.
in Kazakhstan, according to the main law, the state language is the native language and it is common to everyone.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, banks of the second level as of 27.04.2015 opened 105 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 64.0 billion tenge, including for legalization of money withdrawn from the savings account with payment of 2.4 billion tenge to the budget.
889 program participants who completed vocational training (including those previously admitted) were employed 818 or 92.0%.
Deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, members of the Kha Council took the initiative to hold early presidential elections.
I must approve the members of the commission who will begin work immediately after the upcoming holidays.
an adaptation document has been issued for each object.
in the lobby of the club of the Ministry of Internal Affairs using museum funds of the internal affairs bodies "by victory!" on the subject of a photo documentary exhibition.
in accordance with the approved agreements, no more than 50% of the second tranche should be allocated to finance new projects, a maximum of 25% - to refinance previously issued loans and no more than 25% - to replenish working capital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev received a congratulatory telegram from the President of Mongolia Tsakhiagiya Elbegdorzha on his election as President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Raising awareness of entrepreneurship development measures.
they attached the steering wheel of the car, set the gas pedal, and he stopped, colliding with the bank of the opposite side.
the city of Turks, located at the entrance to the bay of chanakalle.
Normalization of an effective social rehabilitation system for citizens released from prison and registered for internships.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan and Ukraine have closely cooperated in many areas throughout the period of independence.
In addition, there will be a psychological support club for parents raising an inferior child.
Shanyrak was taken as the main symbol of the logo of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. shanyrak is a central element in the present logo .
In addition, Aksaule Kalieva, a student of the 2nd year of the College of Innovative Technologies of Astana, who celebrates her 18-year-old age, coincided with the day of the presidential election.
The commissioning of the new building will allow persons with disabilities to ensure that special social services meet the approved standards, improve their social and domestic situation, increase the volume of appropriate beds for each disabled person to 5 m2, provide medical care, rehabilitation measures, labor support, and effective leisure activities.
the unity of our people has always been strong.
most of these measures provide for the creation and creation of a competitive cultural environment, the formation of a cultural code of the nation and cultural clusters, and social research with the aim of assessing indicators of the development of the cultural sphere of the country.
a. Musinov spoke about the political and socio-economic situation in Kazakhstan and international initiatives of our country.
Within the framework of the forum, the new requirements of the Code of Criminal Procedure were widely discussed, as well as a comprehensive exchange of views on international experience in improving criminal proceedings.
According to the Ministry, Kazakhstan has created the most comfortable conditions for obtaining quality and affordable education.
in order to ensure freedom of capital movement and create favorable conditions for the financial market within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, an agreement was reached on the exchange of information, including confidential information.
and what is an 18.6% reduction in energy efficiency?
Ivan Dmitrievich was one of the sons who distinguished themselves with courage at the front, who survived the bloodshed. ivan dmitrievich is one of those brave sons of the nation who came through the terrible years of the war and suffered the difficulties of fire years .
it is also given to villagers, "the report said.
Thanksgiving gifts, diplomas and letters of thanks from the deputy akim of the city were presented to the winners and other participants.
He noted the high level of participants in the event and thanked the leadership of Moscow State University and other organizers for the initiative to hold the conference.
You always care about us.
With the advent of independence, our art has acquired a new character.
this will solve the issue of the sale of raw materials and avoid the dependence of farmers on destabilizing prices for raw materials, ensure long-term and stable demand, "the minister said.
also in accordance with the approved plan, reconstruction, major and ongoing repairs of heating networks and main equipment will be carried out.
Status of public councils.
The head of the city noted that unpopular trade is one of the issues that cause discontent among citizens.
veterans are covered primarily by various means as necessary.
the company released supports on the foundation of the Expo-2017 exhibition building.
thanks to the cohesion of nations and the friendship of peoples today, our State is flourishing and progressing.
we are also interested in legally limiting the preparation of this network.
The Governor of the region congratulated all the residents of the region on the commemorative date and read out the congratulatory speech of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
As part of the anniversary, the largest and most significant military parade in the history of independent Kazakhstan should take place in the capital.
oil transportation by sea during the reporting period amounted to 9,606 thousand tons and increased by 9% compared to the same period last year, "the report said.
particular attention was paid to issues of moral and psychological support for the battle.
in the engineering industry, the production of railway cars over the five-year period increased 10 times, and diesel locomotives - 2.5 times. in the sphere of mechanical engineering the production of rail waggons has increased by 10 times and the production of diesel locomotives has increased by 2.5 times within 5 years .
According to the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, during the sabbath in the park of the first President of Kazakhstan about 200 tree seedlings were planted, all streets, courtyards and rural territories of Taraz and the region were cleared.
after the parade, a solemn meeting was held in the club of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
the share of schools connected to the broadband Internet network increased to 83.4%.
At the accreditation ceremony, Director General of the International Renewable Energy Agency Adan Amin in his speech praised this important step as goodwill aimed at strengthening the further expansion and strengthening of Kazakhstan's cooperation with Irena.
other necessary materials and documents, such as regulatory documents, methodological manuals.
available production capacities do not fully satisfy the needs of the republic, "the report said.
removal of yards from snow, assistance in the economy.
prior to that, these procedures were allocated 5 days.
real cash income increased by 1.4%.
this is one of three large gas fields.
The Sultan of Oman wished success to the initiatives of the head of state aimed at further advancement and prosperity of the friendly Kazakh people.
Currently, work is underway in the South Kazakhstan region to study the Moroccan antitumor territory.
Congratulating on the recent presentation of his credentials, the Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan wished the diplomat the success of his mission in Kazakhstan.
According to the Vice Minister, the abolition of conditions for obtaining work permits within the union will favorably affect the dynamics of mutual migration flows.
It is worth noting that the Patriarchate of Constantinople since 1453 was part of the Ottoman Empire, and then Turkey, has 5 dioceses, 10 monasteries and 30 religious schools.
Our country actively supports the further strengthening of the system of interregional security, cooperation in the military and military-technical sphere.
According to the assistant to the district inspector of the Department of Internal Affairs of the city of Petropavlovsk, Garif Khamzaev, thanks to his free knowledge of the state language, he feels free both in his studies and in his service.
To date, the volume of wastewater is 7.3 billion cubic meters with a capacity of 19.5 billion cubic meters.
optimizing the expenses of the regional budget and revising the expenditure of funds will allow for additional sources of financing.
Members of the Republican Public Election Observation Commission visited the regions and remote areas of the country.
the experience of developing the professional skills of officers was proposed by the commander in chief of the ground forces and supported by the leadership of the armed forces. the practice of improving the professional skills of officers was proposed by the commander-in-chief land forces and supported by the command of the armed forces .
He stressed that this action has a deep history, and the two countries through the silk road established and strengthen their ties thousands of years ago.
the relay will finish on May 9 of this year at the Eternal Flame memorial in Karaganda.
At the presentation, participants should be required to indicate the electronic portfolio.
the thanks of the younger generation for you are unlimited.
17 eagles selected from the first stage, such as the failure of a bird, the shape of a bird's clothes, the ability of a bird to hunt, the ratio to a bird, chips, in the second stage went through the final winding of rabbits, foxes.
however, without stopping there, he is now conducting a desperate training session to update the world record.	yerzhan abilmansurov performs 400 climbs on the bar for 1 hour and 40 minutes .	0,58
Extending the scope of jury trial.	21 . more use of jury service in trials .	0,58
the festival will be attended by groups of ethnocultural associations.	the amateur groups of the ethnic and cultural associations will participate in the festival .	0,58
mining works are carried out in an open manner.	the extraction is done openly .	0,58
It is worth noting that in practice, doctors raised issues of hanging the duties of medical workers in medical centers and special places, as well as providing the military with medical equipment.	during the practice the physicians have completed work on the infirmary of accommodation in the places of shelter , medical staff duties , as well as providing the medical instruments to the military men .	0,58
gender differences at the level of education.	in addition , there are gender differences in the levels of education .	0,58
Taking into account the new qualification requirements, in order to increase the prestige of the profession of guides, a phased increase in their salaries is envisaged.	special attention will be paid to the appearance , the ethics of communication , culture , language , service standards , linguistics , leadership , and conflict resolution .	0,58
Regular monitoring of agricultural land use.	36 . improving the procedure of changing the purpose of land use .	0,58
therefore, we first need to complete the construction that has begun.	kusherbayev said that firstly it 's necessary to finish the construction .	0,58
At the same time, I believe that the issue of transferring second-level banks and the National Bank is not so acute.
such servicemen will become an example for colleagues and will increase the level of combat training of the entire Kazakh army.
To observe the elections, more than 1 thousand observers will arrive in the country, about 200 representatives of foreign media.
representatives of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan fully support the initiative to hold early presidential elections.	according to him , kazakhstan has gained a unique experience in overcoming the crisis at early 90s the asian crisis of 97-98 years and the global crisis of 2008-2009 period .	0,58
the estimated cost of these facilities amounted to 18 billion 144 million tenge, the report said.
Students of the I. Zhansugurov Semirechensky State University noted that under the leadership of the Head of State our country has successfully overcome various difficulties during the years of independence.
According to the agency, the daughter of the warrior Ikhsanbek asanov farbiz asanov and the grandson of the nurlan ormanbets took part in the solemn ceremony of presenting anniversary medals dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
the economic potential of Eurasian integration is very high.
The event was attended by deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In connection with the requirements for the placement of service facilities, Kazzholgzi has developed a white national model.
Our attitude and support for them, the memory of every relative, loved ones and acquaintances whose life was not crowned with war, is very important.
The new economic policy will be implemented as part of the Nұrly zhol program for 2015-2019.
in total, 9 war veterans live in the area.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, the front worker met rescuers in arms and shared his memories of the difficulties.
I congratulate Orthodox Christians and all Kazakhstanis on a bright and good holiday - Christmas!	i sincerely congratulate the orthodox christians and all kazakhstanis on such a bright holiday of nativity ,  the president of kazakhstan said to the nation .
It should be noted that more than 20 groups of ethnocultural associations and about 100 creative groups arrived in the capital of Kazakhstan.
The main purpose of the course is the training, advanced training of inspectors and observers during the inspection, the implementation of military-political form in the framework of the implementation of contracts and negotiations.
The new code provides for articles allowing automatic registration without the participation of the competent representatives of the customs authority.
According to him, the desire of citizens of Kazakhstan to adopt children grows over time.
According to the Vice Minister, there are 626.7 thousand people with disabilities in the country, which is 3.7% of the population of the republic.
in New York won the prize as the best passenger carrier.
Young people associated with their future professions asked about criminal standards for prosecuting corruption offenses, the concept of general corruption, measures aimed at its prevention, including the procedure for employment in the public service, in the department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
The first gifts were given to voters and for the first time voters, "said the chairman of the precinct election commission K. Agadilov.
According to the press service of the Prime Minister, the meeting considered opportunities and ways to develop the non-governmental sector as part of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan - "nұrly zhol is the way to the future."
several years ago, a working group was created that developed a general procedure for regulating drug trafficking. a few years ago a working group on formation of common approaches of regulation of the drug market was created .
electoral activity among Kazakhstanis will be increased through them.
the document also identifies the competent bodies for interaction that have the rules on the form of the agreement of the parties.
Our activity here is what we will do in the conditions of the upcoming food crisis, "said A. Musin.
One of the reasons for the large number of voters in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan is due to the fact that the citizens of the country clearly understand the importance of the presidential election. one of the reasons for the high voter turnout is the fact that citizens feel the significance and importance of the elections .
enough dead ends to unlock the nodes around.
therefore, he considered it right to present products for visual discussion, taking into account the peculiarities of the physique of new samples.
we started a successful step.
in addition, letters of thanks and flowers were awarded to gentle living people who distinguished themselves with noble work.
agriculture is growing dynamically in the region, it is possible to observe an improvement in the livelihood of the rural population.
Therefore, during this period, we pay special attention to the moral and psychological state of young soldiers, "said the deputy commander of the engineer-sapper regiment for educational and ideological work, Major Saber Alishers.
So, in the direction of "strengthening entrepreneurial potential" in 2014, non-financial assistance was provided to about 2.5 thousand entrepreneurs.
the baton after the March district continues the Zhaysan rural district.
The main direction of administrative reform, which will be drawn the attention of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, will be the further distribution of powers with the development of uniform and clear requirements for the distribution of powers between levels of government.
The head of state recalled that last year our country signed a document on the completion of negotiations on the draft Agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU.
With his daily, carefree work, he inspires citizens of the country with a sense of pride and high responsibility for their eternal country and for the fact that Kazakhstan is a member of the same kind family.
The first center aimed at supporting entrepreneurship was opened from the Indera district, "the report said.
Because such a large-scale event in the field of industry for the first time among Muslim countries will raise the flag in the capital, "said the deputy chairman of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, hamid opelouri.
Currently, a solemn ceremony of awarding anniversary medals is taking place.
At the same time, Chukla noted that Kazakhstan is a striking example of holding elections in the Eurasian region.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that Kazakhstan is indeed a country of opportunity, the education that young people receive should be aimed at the prosperity of the country.
the construction of a medical institution is planned as part of a public-private partnership.
formation of regional specialization of the region.
thereby leveled for the future.
The multi-stage parking project, as well as an automated installation for the rational use of the solar battery, is especially distinguished.
the senator, together with the structural divisions of the party, non-governmental organizations, contribute to the development of modern changes and practical solutions aimed at eliminating the causes of lack of citizenship.
at the same time, it should be noted that financial resources from both the State and the private sector will be used for the successful implementation of the program.
It is very pleasant that the head of state pays special attention and special congratulations to this anniversary year.
Following the meeting, B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions regarding the issues of establishing relations with NGOs and civic social initiatives.
the second and third places went to the poets of the Kokshetau alibek sergeev and Karaganda appointment.
It is worth noting that until now, the government of Kazakhstan has provided agricultural workers with fuel and lubricants at cheaper prices at spring crops and autumn fees.
Such a situation should be formed in the regions of the country, and the Chamber of Entrepreneurs is considering all measures in this direction.
On the first day of the conference, party secretary general Jens Stoltenberg, defense ministers of Great Britain and France, senior representatives of Kazakhstan, China and other countries made a speech.
The interlocutors noted the need to intensify bilateral relations to combat transnational crime and expressed readiness for the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation.
exercises are an important event for unit commanders.
It is worth noting that the new project provides for the expansion of the field of production of orders of simple categories.
Currently, one dam has been launched on the Syr Darya River, another is being built.
As for our state, in agreement with the Parliament of Kazakhstan, 20 observers were sent in 2013, of which 6 were sent by Western sugar and Côte d'Ivoire.
According to him, the corporation for the third year in a row on an open dialogue platform offers domestic producers an excellent opportunity to show themselves and show their goods in the public domain.
The situation in the region has now stabilized.
According to the press service of the EEC, Deputy Director of the Macroeconomic Policy Department Andrei Lipin, as part of an expert discussion on issues and challenges of Eurasian integration, spoke about the economic assessment of the effectiveness and prospects achieved for the economy of the EAEU member states from the implementation of the agreement on the union.
The building was built in accordance with international standards and is equipped with modern diagnostic and treatment tools.
in general, the main task of a single coordination center will be to bring countries in line with international standards and introduce business processes, marketing measures to attract infrastructure investors and new participants in the region.
however, it was not implemented due to a deep economic crisis. but it was triggered by a deep crisis of the american economy .
in addition, the code establishes common principles.
today, according to steam data, specialists requiring peacekeeping operations, primarily signalmen, medical workers and engineers.	now the battalion is fully staffed , equipped with the necessary arms , military equipment .	0,59
he is the owner of many orders and medals.	the most expensive of them is the medal for prague liberation .	0,59
and from January 21, 1998, pensioners who entered the army will be able to count on the amount of the accumulated pension.	the pension provision of persons newly designed after 21 january 1998 is provided only at the expense of pension savings made in the amount of 20 % of pay .	0,59
now we must move away from the raw material need and begin to carry out concrete affairs, and only then the "bright path" program will bear fruit, "said K. Sagadiev.
after the restoration and modernization of the equipment of the enterprise, a new technology for granulating ammonium nitrate was introduced.
Russians are ready to support Kazakh exporters.
over the past 2-3 years, there have been more global problems.
At the end of the festival, the best teams were awarded letters of thanks and valuable gifts.
The training center for doctors is equipped with modern simulators.
Recall that the purpose of the action was the implementation of socially significant projects of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the organization of charity events.
the parties expressed satisfaction with the structural relations in the field of education.
I think in the coming days we will find out their results.
progress is also being made in housing.
The main goal of the forum is to create a platform for communication. the main purpose of " central asian forum for nuclear medicine " is the organization of a platform for communication .
today our state body is faced with the task of increasing its authority. now , we have the task to improve the situation .
The bill aims to implement the provisions of the international convention on the training and certification of seafarers and the carrying out of shift work for the audit of an international maritime organization, as well as to improve legislation on seafaring, ensuring the safe navigation of ships and their navigation services.
the third ceremony is the "golden sword."
The heads of state also discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation and the implementation of the agreements reached at the meeting at the fourth summit of the Caspian states on September 29, 2014 in Astrakhan.
During the action, a concert of the amateur art circle of the House of Culture was held in the Hero's homeland.
to simplify the procurement procedure, the bill provides for the introduction of new methods of public procurement. besides it is expected one more way - " competition with the use of pre-qualification " will be introduced as well .
most authors are young people between the ages of 18 and 19.
As part of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025, new mechanisms for preventing corruption will be implemented - a list of cases will be prepared when they will be resolved and excluded, both successful and institutions for enriching large expenses of civil servants, on conflict of interest and actions. as part of the anti-corruption strategy of kazakhstan for 2015-2025 , the government will implement new mechanisms of corruption prevention : institute of declaration of income and large incomes of public servants ; drawn list of typical situations of conflict of interest and the algorithm of their actions to resolve and prevent it .
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the project is planned to be implemented through loan funds and investments.
in recent years, the connection between the Lithuanian and metallurgical industries has been developing.
for guests and representatives of ethnocultural associations from Aktobe region, as well as schoolchildren of the city with age.
it should be formed primarily on the basis of citizenship, all Kazakhstani citizens should obey a single law. besides it is necessary to strengthen the kazakhstani identity further .
it is currently planned to further develop production within the framework of pressure management (uekbj) projects and the future expansion (kkj) of well boards.	currently , tco plans further development of production under the large-scale project on the management of wellhead pressure of the project of further expansion ,  shkolnik said .
the victorious pennant was taken by the captain erlan nuralin.
they also noted that the work of the commission was carried out openly and publicly, and the media had the opportunity to monitor the progress of decision-making for each candidate.
More than 60 women came to a meeting with the head of the region.
and individual entrepreneurs on land plots.
non-recognition of the Montreal Convention prevents Kazakh air carriers from participating in various projects implemented within the framework of the international air transport association.
take care of a person, young Kazakhstanis. care about the young generation of kazakhstan is a a fil rouge of our cooperation .
expansion of the contractual form mjs is envisaged.	for example , the construction and maintenance of the railway .	0,59
Enhancing citizen participation in decision-making through the development of self-regulation and local self-government.	97 . empowering citizens to participate in the decision-making process through development of local governance .	0,59
the main requirement for volunteers is knowledge of English.	in addition , the company will hold special training courses .	0,59
Solar panels with 192 thousand energy generation are used here.	it will use about 192,000 solar panels to generate electricity .	0,59
The number of employees in the field of small business increased by 3.3% and amounted to 66.7 thousand people.
however, it is important to remember that absentee certificates are not issued within one settlement.
According to Nurgaziev in his report, as of January 1, 2015, 150,436 patients with oncological organizations were registered in Kazakhstan (in 2013 - 146,404 patients).
It is worth noting that labor dynasties contribute to supporting the profession as a family heritage, increasing respect for youth for work and pride in their profession.
In addition, a children's drawing area, an open-air cinema worked for visitors to the flower festival, and a concert was organized in which circus artists performed.
According to him, today young people, in general, most of the population over time is more engaged in financial issues.
The ECE Council decided to establish a working group to ensure the functioning of the eurozone single market for services. it was decided to establish a working group to ensure the single service market within the eurasian economic community ( eaeu ) .
In general, the Nұrly Zhol program has many projects related to infrastructure, "said M. Mukhanov.
By the end of the meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev handed over certificates to stependiants who joined the ranks of participants in the Future program.
Today, the Association of Students of Kazakhstan includes 27,000 people. today , kazakhstani student community in russian universities is one of the largest and consists of more than 27,000 people .
the author notes that there is now an active integration of the traditions of different peoples of the world.
rachmetolla egizbaeva.
launched a special site for communicating with voters.
A government decree approved a national plan for the organization and holding of the year of the assembly and the 20th anniversary of the constitution.
Within the framework of this agreement, the national nuclear company has made a number of obligations for socio-infrastructure development, improving the level of well-being and quality of life of the residents of the region.
he described measures aimed at combating corruption, improving the public service and the main functions of the anti-corruption department.
this is our victory, the victory of the country. "
During the meeting, the mayor of the city called one of the priority areas in the life of the capital an increase in city budget revenues.
80% of commissioned projects reached their planned capacity.
This made it possible to lay the necessary foundation, on the basis of which Kazakhstani athletes receive high results at regional and international competitions.
self-lifting drilling rig is designed for operation in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea, which can drill wells with a width of 72, a height of 64 meters and a depth of 6 meters.
After the exhibition, it will use home exhibitions for guests, hotels and convention centers for its main purpose.
this year we planted 30 thousand trees.
the number of referrals was 21272.
among them the ratification of a number of agreements.
This year, the construction of two more clinics began.
Thus, peasants will be able to receive funds for the purchase of seeds on VAT security and return them from the crop next year.
in army sports, the 1st place was taken by the military institute of the national guard, the 2nd place by the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications, the 3rd place by the military institute of the ground forces.
It is noted that today the overhaul and modernization of the aul, shymkent, pavlodar continues.
the production tells about the general history of these countries.
I am sure that the 15th anniversary exhibition will open up even more opportunities for working with foreign partners and will create all conditions for the full use of the potential for the further development of tourism within the framework of the heritage of the silk road, "summed up Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
we plan to conduct these surveys weekly.
this is due to youth employment, crime, increased cases of divorce between young families, vigorous promotion of a healthy lifestyle, the lack of active interference in the work of youth organizations and the weakness of work to promote Kazakh culture and universal human values.
in addition, a large number of charity events will be organized.
the work of Nursultan Abishevich, uniting many nations and creating a unique state, is courageous.
In addition, the company produces all types of couplings lining pipelines during the construction of steam network pipelines, certified by authorized bodies of Kazakhstan, Russia, Germany and successfully tested.
Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan T.Duissenova spoke about the current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan regulating the issues of attracting foreign workers, including seasonal ones, to the country.
this Convention also significantly increases compensation for loss of cargo and provides compensation in the event of a change or delay in the voyage, which is not provided for in the Warsaw Convention.
A feature of the traditionally held gathering is that in the coming May it will be exactly one year since the signing of the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union in the capital.
its activities are aimed at creating a healthy and comprehensively strong personnel resource to increase the effectiveness of protecting public order and protecting citizens from criminal attacks and ensuring the fight against crime.
new kindergartens opened in the villages of Taitobe, Kazymukan, Kyzylzhar, New Ishimka, the report said.
our life was full of highlights. life went perfectly !
this will provide the population with new jobs, "he said.
Thus, today all agricultural producers are provided with seeds in full, "said the Vice Minister.
Also, from the documents of the archive fund, the exhibition "Kazakhstan is our common homeland" was organized.
developed draft standards include requirements for the regulation of the prescription process in electronic format, the management of electronic processes of diagnostic research and treatment measures, the regulation of electronic disease prevention processes, including vaccination and screening.
The head of state got acquainted with museum exhibits and met with representatives of the creative intelligentsia of Semey.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to raise the socio-economic level during his visit to the region.	thus i planned to attend reporting meetings of five areas ,  batalov said .
Also, R. Asimov expressed the readiness of the Uzbek country to take part in the organization of the exhibition.
the Order of Glory is awarded to persons of the ordinary and sergeant groups of the Red Army, who received the rank of junior lieutenant, shown courage on the battlefield in aviation.
participants of the meeting discussed the main aspects of socio-economic and political development of Kazakhstan and Kazakh-Russian relations with issues of Eurasian unification.
Kazakhstan is making progress in implementing the Millennium Plan for Sustainable Development. kazakhstan is good at the implementation of the millennium development , and new goals will be finally approved at the grand summit in new york , which will gather all the heads of states and governments of the world , including president nazarbayev , " - helen clark said .
on the experimental mastery of the direction of the educational plan in secondary and higher educational institutions and the introduction of a special curriculum for obtaining specific qualifications.
Within the framework of the union, we can prepare an eao industrialization map.
In 2014, the technology for the production of light and durable artificial rays was supported by the center for the commercialization of technologies under the President of Kazakhstan and 45.5 million tenge of grants were allocated.
in particular, "tassay," "Kazakh-Turkish," "mindam" and the agro-industrial zone.
The Kazakh Research Institute of Eye Diseases is the main ophthalmological center of the country with an 80-year history.	kazakh scientific research institute of eye illnesses , being the leading ophthalmic center in the country , has a rich 80-year history .	0,59
In order to develop agriculture, the National Chamber has prepared an action plan to solve topical issues of the agro-industrial complex.	in order to develop agriculture , nce rk has developed an action plan to address the pressing issues of the subjects of agriculture of the republic of kazakhstan ( roadmap ) .	0,59
the railway train is designed primarily for evacuation and medical assistance to the wounded and sick in hostilities.	it was a train intended mostly for evacuation and medical aid to the wounded and sick in the course of hostilities .	0,59
As of May 8 of the current year, the fee for the legalization of property according to the calculation of 1-p per year, according to code 206110, "in fact, 2.6 million tenge was received in the budget.
this situation occurred in Japan and Brazil.
thirdly, the population is served by an electronic queue.
The rules and conditions of the competition were published on the pages of the republican and regional press in Kazakh.
if the consumer enters the code of their phone or postal alert, they can get the item they came to.
according to the bill, citizens can, by age, through the e-government portal, conduct state basic pension payments and state special benefits, documents necessary for the registration of social payments for dismissal and childcare.
this issue is now under discussion.	so , we will declare approaches and principles .	0,59
we have prepared very carefully for this case.	a very large amount of the youths took part in it .	0,59
The head of state noted the need to develop entrepreneurship and emphasized the issues of supporting small and medium-sized businesses.	the president noted the necessity to develop entrepreneurship and especially elaborated on the support of small and medium-sized businesses .	0,59
According to the commercial director of the plant, at present the enterprise fully covers the domestic market of the country. these locomotives powered by alternating current and are intended primarily for transportation of mining materials , carbon , iron , oil , etc .
their appointment can be carried out according to special requirements and an individual schedule of posts.
front-line soldiers will never forget.
That is, the original paintings, which are still not published anywhere, were first presented to the public.
At the end of the meeting, Ivan Kosenkov thanked the head of state for the comprehensive support of veterans.
It is worth noting that the pilot project of the party "Nұr Otan" received free Internet access thanks to the white partnership "Kazposta."
the development of the armed forces, the application of new methods of combat training, the strengthening of the social security system of the military.
To participate in the parade, hundreds of people arrived from the district centers of the region, whose relatives fought in the Great Patriotic War or worked in the rear.
Having inspected the facilities, the head of state held a meeting on construction work.
after which the community "unity is an eternal country" gathered! "My art is my life."
increased production allowed us to study the market.
The purpose of the event was to develop anti-sabotage equipment for checkpoints and facilities guarded by military units, the interaction of units designed to strengthen the protection and protection of military facilities in the detection of improvised explosive substances and explosives of the military type, the report said.
therefore, it is important to learn to overcome them and continue to work for development, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the water level in the rivers of the region has decreased.
It is noted that the chairman of the Eea college spoke about the relationship of the Eeo with third states.
also, the management staff presented an information stand - a visual example of the "corner of the consumer," made recommendations to entrepreneurs on the design and filling out of the necessary information.
The holding cooperates with Chinese financial institutions in the Asian direction.
deputies will consider the issue of tariff policy in the field of natural monopolies.
In Kazakhstan, the culture of this tolerant behavior, unlike other countries, spread to everyone and was perceived by various ethnic and social groups.
As part of the transformation, the company is actively diversifying its income base.	we develop the directions related to transit and transportation and logistics services in general ,  the managing director on corporate development of " ktz " jsc added .
In the village of Akzhar of the Tarbagatai district within the project of Nr Otan party "y" to elderly people the household help is rendered to Ardatayy y zh of a mouth", - it is said in the statement.
Kazakhstan highlighted the exemplary peaceful coexistence of representatives of different nationalities and religions.
we have great hopes for this port.
Thanks to its 20 years of active work, the assembly became a national and national body and received a constitutional degree.
today, many documents preserved on paper need restoration or repair. the paper documents require restoration .
In addition to residents of the region, any citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan can take part in the competition.
N.Nazarbayev noted that 1 worker in the industry occupies 3-5 jobs in the service sector.
export of meat processing products.
the veteran, who sent a letter from the city of Pavlodar, expressed concern about what was happening in the world.
In the future, this service will be supported on an ongoing basis, "said A. Batalov.
of these, about 60 are young people.
The purpose of the event is to strengthen interfaith harmony in our country, educate young people through creativity and art by a person with a high spirit, rich moral qualities.
With 6 thousand agricultural producers in the Kostanay region, only 60 of them have a stable financial position.
According to the Center for Technology Commercialization, at the moment the research work has been successfully completed.
Currently, these companies are also participating in the transformation program, they are also restructuring and reorganizing assets.
The main goal of the program is the formation of a single economic market through the integration of the country's macro-regions through the formation of an effective hub infrastructure in order to ensure long-term economic growth.
today he turned the national university of arts headed by him into the first music educational institution in the country.
In turn, this will provide 540 families with apartments where all opportunities are created.
There are 15 private theaters in the region, many of which have the title of folk, "said the spokeswoman for the House of Folk Art of Aktobe Region Gulnar Seitalin.
Today, within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, which comes into force on January 1, 2015, one of the most important areas of the integration economy is the field of intellectual property. the intellectual property issues is the key direction in the economic integration within the eaeu which will be launched on january 1,2015 .
Head of Internal Policy Department, Representative of Youth Center r.ruspayev.
The project will include large investment projects that will be able to provide competitive services aimed at removing infrastructure restrictions and will increase transport volumes, "said the vice president.
and since 1989, it has been granted the status of a state institution "House-boarding school of mental illness," designed for the residence of disabled people of the first and second groups with chronic mental disorders over 18 years old.
the applicant's words were full of tautology, oral vocabulary, and he inappropriately used some words, which proves the insufficient vocabulary of the examinee.
In addition, the Vice Minister noted the need for phased automation of the control and supervisory activities of state bodies to prevent the human factor and reduce corruption risks.
The staff structure of subordinate organizations over the past 2 years has been optimized for 1 thousand 401 people.
Within the framework of the session, elections will be held for the president of the parliamentary assembly and its deputies and judges of the European Court of Human Rights, the press service of the Senate reports.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, TK assisted 10 kindergartens and 5 schools in replacing heating networks, auxiliary dining equipment, doors and windows.
then children will grow up through literature, absorbing the centuries-old values ​ ​ of mercy and justice of the people, "said O.anishenko.
In accordance with the rules, all participants made a 10-kilometer march with full combat equipment, mastered a number of obstacles (passage of an underground canal, a destroyed bridge, walls 5 m high, specially made swamps), performed shooting exercises.
In two years of integrated work, we have advanced slightly in the main indicators in the field of health. due to personnel support of the president the second phase of the severoaralsky project included in the " kazakhstan 's water management program . "
the veteran was delighted with the guests who came and spoke about how he participated in the battles during the Great Patriotic War, the veteran was a mine shooter.
Congress delegates supported the proposal and made a positive decision to rename the chamber.
eighth graders scored 487 points, natural sciences - 490 points.
Today, peasant farms and agricultural enterprises in the region have good indicators in the development of animal husbandry.
According to the Vice Minister, in accordance with the agreement, the state guarantees employment after the application of the dual education system.
nomination of candidates for deputies of maslikhat by republican or local public associations, their structural subdivisions are carried out by their highest bodies with indication of the constituency for which each candidate is running.
The event is attended by about 2,000 people.
The third collection is distinguished by books worthy of the 170th anniversary of the great brother.
Individuals and legal entities that are subjects of the agro-industrial complex (anka) making investment investments in the Republic of Kazakhstan are considered as investors.
we are united by a supernatural spirit of independence.
winners are waiting for valuable gifts.
the author of the project is known to the Kazakh architect Toktar Ermekov.
To date, foreign drilling rigs have been operated in the country, and the new Kazakhstan rig does not have any shortcomings from foreign rigs, according to some requirements it even warns them.
the document creates a system of regulations aimed at introducing a system of assessment and management of professional risks, harmonized with the best world practices.
After the meeting, representatives of neighboring areas laid flowers at the memorial to the hero of the Soviet Union Manshuk Mametova and veterans of the Great Patriotic War and honored the memory of the victims of the war with a minute of silence.
and the number of unemployed amounted to 3 million 457 thousand people.
In this regard, within the framework of the order of the Head of State to date, all conditions are created so that athletes of the region can perform at international and republican competitions.
This suggests that in the history of the Kazakh Khanate, which this year marks 550 years, the city of Turkestan occupies a special place.
- When you presided over the European Commission, the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and the European Union increased tenfold.
in addition, there are special mobile points for youth employment.
the people of Kazakhstan made an invaluable contribution to the victory in the most severe war in the life of mankind.
this help can be used for the personal purposes of depositors, as well as for obtaining a bank loan or completing a tax return.
"Statistics are the same thing as someone," said the Estonian observer.
From a number of sketches presented at today's exhibition, we will choose and, taking into account the decision of the commission, choose a project that will be convenient for the climate of our city, "said the akim of the region.
for example, allows you to pay customs duties online.
According to representatives of the akimat, first of all, rental apartments will be registered with local executive bodies in such categories as a large family, an incomplete family, a family raising children with disabilities, orphans, children left without parental care, oralmans, civil servants, military personnel, employees of special state bodies, employees of budgetary institutions.
during the certification, the best officer staff was also determined.
therefore, it is important to preserve the institution of the family.
At the same time, e. Idyrissov expressed confidence that, taking into account the previous proposals of the Ecu and other authoritative international organizations, a high organized type of voting will be ensured.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan emphasized the need for fundamental protection of labor rights of citizens, especially in terms of remuneration.
and during the day the population increased even more.
there are a number of major nuclear energy projects.
in addition, they passed special training tests.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the tradition of holding a "memory watch" was not interrupted.
this system will allow monitoring the timeliness and quality of treatment, monitoring the epidemiological situation in the country.
During the event, 9 republican contests of the assembly started.
work on the reconstruction of sewage networks of kenkiyak, shubarkuduk, Khromtau district, pumping stations and pressure headers of the city of Aktobe was completed, work continues on the reconstruction of biological treatment and sewerage networks of feed and embi cities of the Mughalzhar region.
now you can download the fairy tale you like.
Ten years ago, with the help of residents, a major overhaul was carried out.
the rest themselves are responsible for the family, biography and career. " erimbets.
in addition, the construction of dilapidated housing is successfully underway.
now there are twelve processed tales, a total of 24 tales will be released before the New Year.
in different years, he served as akim of the Kyzylorda region, ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to the Chinese People's Republic, the Vietnamese Republic, and the Korean country.
In turn, as the Director of the Department for Culture and Art of Kazakhstan noted, this year special attention is paid to the restoration of monuments related to the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
And the new automobile plant will build our potential.
Orthodox Christians make a significant contribution to the preservation of interfaith harmony, social stability and peace in our country.
The TJ department pays special attention to veterans, because these people have gone through a difficult and difficult war on their ways of life.
The Kazakh diplomat expressed hope that Doha will take part in the forum at a high level and will make a significant contribution to its work.
On the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the assembly, 2 new multi-storey buildings were commissioned in Pavlodar.
He noted that a third of the disputed issues submitted by the tax and customs authorities in court were resolved illegally.
that is, in case of lack of office or rental housing, the payment of compensation for rent will continue.
According to the press service of the Senate, this document identifies citizens who have violated the procedure for entering the territory of two countries or permanently residing in the territory of two countries, if necessary, returning them to the country or considering effective measures for their transportation.
In addition, in connection with the 70th anniversary of World War II this year, his eyes began to strive to create all conditions for the life of war veterans.	within the celebrating the 70th anniversary of the victory in the great patriotic war an additional assistance will be provided in form of housing and cars , preferential provision of drugs , housing repair , free transportation for veterans and persons accompanying them on commemorative activities to places of military glory .	0,60
thus, the programme will provide comprehensive support to enterprises.	each of these institutions will provide development tools for its implementation .	0,60
the development of this methodology is the final stage of the formation of a unified system for forecasting food markets within the framework of the eEP.
any citizen can come to the polls and have the full opportunity to control the electoral process, this is his constitutional right, however, citizens have an idea of ​ ​ the elections on the day of voting. every man comes at the elections , he has the right to control , it is his constitutional right , but the person gets an idea of the election at a time when he comes to the polls .
Yenbekshikazakh district is one of the largest areas with great opportunities.
in general, he has no lungs to live.
Nikolai Timofeev voluntarily turned to the airborne army.
this is the rostrum of all nationalities of our country.
in the international scientific environment, much attention is paid to ethics.
K. Turgankulov introduced the members of the delegation to the work of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the preparation and conduct of presidential elections and spoke about the specific features of these elections.
According to the Governor's Office, state bodies of the republican level began to participate in this important issue.
You appreciate peace and tranquillity when different situations occur in the world, "he said.
a week ago, we received a letter of thanks from the American side for the prompt execution of the request of the competent US authorities for legal assistance in a criminal case of tax and bank fraud.
According to him, these changes are implemented at the expense of the sectoral state social order.
One of the projects approved by the members of the auk was the opening of a children's entertainment center in the village of Akai of the Karmakshin district Serika Niyazymbetova.	one of the projects is a serik niyazbekov 's project on opening of children 's entertainment center in karmakshinsky area .	0,60
When the draft Code of Administrative Offences is adopted in the new text, the legislation of the country considered in Parliament will identify the provisions of this Code.	according to the senate , the bill contained provisions of the code of administrative offences of the new edition in accordance with the provisions of the laws of kazakhstan that were pending in the parliament at the time of the adoption of this code .	0,60
The 1920s have survived in history as years of hunger.	he survived the famine of the 20s known in history as a great jute .	0,60
Of course, we will be together, as we have so far, and today we must concentrate on a difficult situation.
Large-scale work is being carried out in the region to celebrate Victory Day with dignity.
According to East Kazakhstan region, Borly mining plant in Abay region plans to increase production of non-ferrous metal ore by launching a mining and processing complex for the production of copper concentrate of the maksut deposit.
this direction will be more difficult compared to raw materials.
shooting was carried out day and night.
Tokayev informed Abdullah II about domestic political situations in Kazakhstan, spoke about the implementation of the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol - the way to the future," as well as about the course of the election campaign.
To date, several hundred service dogs are at the disposal of the military police service of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Research Institute named after I. Zhakaev conducted a number of experiments with seeds favorable to our climate, achieved good results.
According to the ministry, Azhimovich Abishev was appointed to the post of rector of the republican state enterprise on the right of economic management of the Atyrau Institute of Oil and Gas of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Another method of supporting programme participants is the coordination of public authorities in removing administrative sectoral barriers.
oil and gas, mining and agricultural engineering are developing, we ourselves produce special equipment, have mastered the creation of turbines for the energy industry, and the production of trucks and cars is growing.
also the secretary of the Central Election Commission so-called on the receipt of written statements on the withdrawal of his candidatures from Mukhamedrahim Kadyrbaevich Kursabayev, Mels Khamzayevich Eleusizov and the greedy Abishbaev Basilbayev.
90-year-old veteran Valentina Haritonovna lives alone in a 2-room apartment, and a personal social assistant comes to her aid.
every eighth of the gentle representatives - with higher or incomplete higher education, every fourth - with secondary special education.
previously, the oldest building lacked medical equipment.
The head of state noted the high growth in industry, as well as the good development of the culture of the region.
Also prepares educational peacekeeping programmes to train the Kazakhstani military to participate in peacekeeping operations.
within its framework, an impetus will be given to the development of single-industry towns and small towns, district centers and support villages.
there are different ways and directions of democracy, and each state chooses its own path.
According to him, this year about 4 trillion tenge is provided for the social sphere.
Repair work in 3 residential buildings continues.
each voter votes by himself.
In particular, in the field of natural monopolies, a tariff policy is provided until 2020, and the concept of joining the capital in the top 10 cities until 2050 has been approved.
secondly, he stressed the need to increase grain crops and even bring gross crops to at least 22-25 percent.
The Governor of the region, who was present at the opening of the new facility, congratulated the residents on the holiday and presented the TV.
The Ambassador noted that Kazakhstan is known to the world as a state that actively conducts reforms in the economy.
the ambassador met in Riley, the state capital, with Lieutenant Governor Daniel Forest and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
its products are exported to Russia.
During the meeting, he separately discussed issues of control over the activities of troops, the Ministry of Defense reports.
during today's meeting, the progress of applications was explained in detail, and then the steps by the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" for the employment of rural youth.
Therefore, the prices of the population for medical services as a whole should be perceived as a price for the state, that is, the authorities, "the governor of the region said.
20 years ago, at the initiative of the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev, an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan was created.
in the Palace of Culture named after I. Zhansugurov, where servicemen of the Taldykorgan garrison held a solemn concert in honor of veterans of the Second World War.
the company specializes in upgrading existing systems, such as thermal, water, gas and oil pipelines, or making toothed decisions on new systems.
guests presented memorable gifts to the owner of the birthday.
they are active and committed citizens who, thanks to your support, have been able to contribute to the development of our country and society.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, the mining industry is intensifying in the Kordai district of Zhambyl region.
Independence Day is the day of the triumph of historical justice, the day when our descendants are glorified, despite the fact that an unforgettable and diverse era has come, in which the era of immense bloodshed has come.
In addition, in the framework of the discussion and general discussion, the members of the election commissions reviewed the experience of their implementation during the past election campaigns related to the legal regulation of individual election procedures, as well as got acquainted with the comments provided by representatives of the Central Election Commission.
During the meeting, sergeant commanders shared their experience in combat training and everyday life. in the course of training the sergeants-commanders share their experiences , their methodology of work in organizing combat training and everyday life in the units .
The leader of the nation, the president of the country set the task to protect the rights of every child born on Kazakh soil. leader of the nation set a task to protect the rights of every child born in the kazakh land .
employment in small business is 3.3% or 66.7 thousand people.
doctors completely examined the patient, made a preliminary diagnosis and prepared for telemedicine consultations.
we must maintain these jobs without the participation of the Employment Roadmap 2020, which has proven to be effective.
As an initiator, we can note the presentation of today's books, "said Omar.
representatives of the inter-parliamentary assembly visited the memorial to the victims of World War II, where fragments of eternal fire were removed in a special capsule.
In total, 244 facilities were installed according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
The holding of presidential elections is a very important, very responsible decision in the interests of the country and our people.
The State Museum of Firefighters and Rescuers of the TD of Astana was opened on the eve of Capital Day after the reconstruction of its doors.
so, we, labor veterans, like other socially vulnerable segments of the population, have nothing to worry about, "said the veteran.
From the first day of independence, the initiative of women in all areas was supported by the head of state, "said R. Sarsembayev.
under this agreement, each of the parties grants the resident banks of the other party access to its foreign exchange market for interbank conversion operations.
The action was attended by Afghan war veterans, public organizations and ethnocultural associations.
One of the institutional reforms - the professional and general corps of the public service - will increase the effectiveness of economic reforms and the implementation of state functions.
The Deputy Chairman of the Majilis asked the Montenegrins to support the initiative of Kazakhstan to become a non-permanent representative of the UN in 2017-2018 and handed over f.vuyana.
It also includes Russian oil, which passes through the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of a contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation for Russian oil transportation and is supplied to the Chinese People's Republic by the Omsk-Irtysh-Alashankai route, "the report said.
Representatives of all groups of the armed forces, representatives of the main directorate of the military police and the cadet corps of the Republic of Kazakhstan km and other military will take part in the symposium.
typical projects have been developed that will be used in a set of one-room apartments, taking into account the possibility of building residential buildings and waiting lists, "he said.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, "on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main priority in the list of events organized in the region is given to the formation of a legal culture, the rule of law as the basis of the principles of state structure.
our future will flourish through the implementation of this programme. the future is better , more beautiful .
In 2014, 20.6 thousand tons of grain from 11,200 hectares of land were received.
however, as a result of the non-disclosure of reliable information on immunization measures, immunization coverage in Georgia decreased, and the risks of an increase in morbidity increased.
To date, Kazakhstan has more than 800 joint ventures.
In addition, according to the results of the 2014 championship, the region achieved great success, rising from 13th place in the republican ranking to 8th.
Venezuela constantly participates in many integration activities in Latin America.
the front-line soldier told the young soldiers that the liberation of the Motherland from the fascist invaders was more important than his life.
The museum fund has more than 1000 historical exhibits.
During the meeting, the chairman of the political party Unity emphasized that the upcoming presidential elections are an important event in the political life of the country.
It entered into force on January 1, 2015.
All of them thanked the guests of the evening and gave them flowers.
in this regard, the foundation of state policy is public consent.
one of such products - a bracket for the plane a380.
your invaluable exploits and exploits will be an example for every soldier enlisted in the army. " Sakauov wished good luck to future soldiers.
more than thirty singers of the opera company took part in the audition.
Kazakhstan will continue its foreign policy direction.
The main condition for the selection of participants is the introduction of advanced technologies and obtaining international quality.
One of the largest projects of the movement this year was the involvement of young people in large-scale construction projects as part of the Nұrly Zhol program.
education in English at the University of Information Sciences and Technology named after St. Paul in the city of Ohrid.
A set of measures has also been adopted to strengthen the fight against corruption in the judicial system in eight areas.
In addition, the visit of French military attaché to Kazakhstan Lionel de Langeron to Almaty military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications will bring news to Kazakhstan military education.
The Chairman of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine on the eve of the decisive day in the republic noted the smooth situation, indicating the good preparation of the election organizers for the election campaign, and also thanked for the invitation as an observer, wishing well-being and working condition on the voting day.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as of 10.04.2015, the second-tier banks opened 91 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 39.2 billion tenge, including for money legalization with payment of 1.2 billion tenge from the savings account of 11.0 billion tenge.
Consumer rights and product safety remain key priorities in consumer protection. the main priorities for the protection of consumers ' rights are the rights of the consumer and safety of product .
in particular, the training of the Armed Forces of the People's Republic of China is available in these exercises.
The goal is not only to contribute to ensuring the purity of the city of every resident of the city, but also to take an active part in the formation of the artistic and artistic appearance of the city.
As you know, the main problem in our country is the management system.
The head of state paid special attention to the implementation of institutional reforms. giving great importance to five institutional reforms , the leader of the nation today took the first step towards its immediate implementation .
in order to ensure sustainable socio-economic growth of the member countries of the organization, multilateral practical cooperation within the framework of Shu should be accelerated.
In addition, during the event, a trilateral meeting of heads of the railway industry of Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia was held, during which the issues of organizing the movement of container trains of the Sino-Kazakh-Azerbaijani-Georgian-Turkish direction were discussed.
you congratulated me on the phone, sent a telegram, and here you came to the negotiations.
In terms of sending materials to the poster competition, residents of Almaty, Akmola, West Kazakhstan regions intensified, their work amounted to almost half of the materials sent to the competition, "said the managing director for media projects of Kazkontent dias esdaulets at a press conference in the Central Communications Service in Almaty.
Having shown the three-week work of the clinic in numbers, it can be seen that the result is very great.
Also in Aktobe region, the coverage of the population with a national screening program in 2011 amounted to 99.0% and 209 thousand 464 people out of 211 thousand 614 people who need to be examined were examined.
Many conscripts go to army service for a large purpose, want to find out the details of military affairs.
This case is based on the ceremony of celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Battle of Stalingrad in 2012.
By the end of the year, 6 more such modern cultural facilities will be commissioned in the region.
today's successes are possible only if there is a strong production capacity and qualified and educated personnel. today 's achievements are possible only due to strong production capacity and skilled staff .
Experts proposed specific recommendations to reduce and prevent environmental safety risks in Kazakhstan.
In addition, the transport gas-filling compressor station "Eco nur" was launched that evening.
in respect of cadets, a specific decision is made to withdraw from detention.
Kazakhstan should restore its historical role and become a transit and large business hub in the Central Asian region, a kind of bridge between Europe and Asia.	the upcoming transport and logistics business forum also contributes to the successful implementation of the tasks set by the program  nurly zhol . "
if it is located in the territory of the member states of the union, search work is carried out by the antimonopoly authorities of this state.
According to the head of the Iliasova fatima complex, Dutch roses are grown on an area of ​ ​ 3 hectares, where 60 people work.
It is worth noting that the international Olympiad is held among youth for 8 years.
At the meeting with representatives of legislative bodies, the Kazakh deputy noted the importance of intensifying inter-parliamentary dialogue through parliamentary committees and friendly groups, which are key tools for promoting mutual partnership.
the next step should be to implement them.
I want to emphasize once again that the main task of all the election organizers is to ensure strict compliance with the norms of electoral law and create all the necessary conditions for the implementation of each citizen of his constitutional suffrage. "
in addition to scheduled inspections, unscheduled inspections will be carried out on applications (applications), in case of complication of the epidemiological situation for infectious diseases, in checking previously issued instructions, "he said.
The Chairman of the Majilis Kabibulla Dzhakupov presented the deputies with the jubilee medal "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" in honor of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, for a significant contribution to strengthening public harmony in the country, ensuring the unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, students of three schools in Almaty (secondary school No. 50, school-lyceum No. 28, school-gymnasium No. 73) learn to interact with each other for 8 weeks, with colleagues, teachers and school administrations.
In addition, the Governor of the region noted the need to acquire an intelligent system, switch to a smart city system, increase the number of video cameras, as well as draw attention to sanitary cleaning and improvement of settlements.
children learn how to use energy effectively through concrete examples and see the benefits of such technologies.
Thanks to the initiatives implemented by 2017, the region will completely solve the energy deficit of 280 MW.
It is noted that the adoption of the draft proposal by the EEC board will increase the potential, export, competitiveness of agriculture and food products of the EAEU member states.
their total area is 151.18 thousand square meters. meters, the living area of ​ ​ the fund is 118.87 thousand square meters. meters.
this is not a guarantee of the state and financing in the amount of 7 million tenge for each candidate.	in general , the region will repair 114 km of roads totaling 5.5 billion tenge .	0,60
today this school received a great gift.	currently , the school has received a real gift .	0,60
In addition, a meeting was held in the Omani Sultanate, at which a wide discussion of EXPO-2017 took place.	and in the coming days , our compatriot plans to visit india and meet with the local journalists and entrepreneurs .	0,60
One of the most important areas of joint work at the current stage of the election campaign, the participants of the seminar-meeting noted the need to ensure strict compliance by all participants in the electoral process with the norms of the electoral law.	as one of the most important directions of co-operation at this stage of the campaign , the participants of the meeting stressed the need to ensure strict compliance with the electoral legislation by all participants of the electoral process .	0,60
The head of state drew attention to the importance of further improving the combat effectiveness of the armed forces and the development of the country's military-industrial complex.	nursultan nazarbayev has stressed the importance of the armed forces ' combat capability further improving and the development of the military-industrial complex .	0,60
we did not rebel, just bought what is not in Kazakhstan.	they did not stage the meetings , but they went to buy something that was missing in kazakhstan and thus they preserved their families , peace and stability in the society .	0,60
In addition, the head of the department noted an increase in production in animal husbandry in organized farms.	the head of department also reported an increase in production in the livestock farms .	0,60
At the same time, as the expert noted, the precipitation of popular sovereignty, that is, when the only source of power is the people, is the basis of the society of citizens and public institutions.	in addition , the principle of popular sovereignty , where the only source of power is the people - is the foundation of society engaging citizens and public institutions , which are associated with the development of a state to participate in governance and participation of such documents as the constitution of the country ,  the expert informed .
According to the Governor's Office of Almaty region, during the event the Governor of Almaty region presented the President Nursultan Nazarbayev's congratulations to the people of the region within the framework of the year of the assembly.
strategic plans and programs of territorial development of public councils under state bodies and akims; draft normative legal acts affecting budgets, reports, achievement of target indicators, rights and freedoms of citizens; Strengthening the role in the discussion of draft programme documents.
This event is hosted by Canadian international expert Brian Marson.
veterans of the regional center found a way to the heart of the audience.
this happiness of freedom was presented by the older generation, which in the toughest struggle for humanity, without leaving the cradle, without taking up arms and unable to withstand false blood.
In 2014, 85,343 citizens' appeals were registered through public reception parties.
Public councils should be set up to deal with complaints from citizens complaining about the activities of police officers. public complaints review board should be established under the governor 's offices .
According to the regional administration, the manufacturing industry has increased from 4.6 to 7.6 billion tenge over the past five years.
Recall that between April 5-11, the III Republican Festival of Ethnic Theaters of Kazakhstan will be held in Shymkent
The Alliance of Volunteers of Kazakhstan will unite active youth and will allow to prepare qualified specialists before the exhibition.
at the same time, you probably need to increase the number of employees of election commissions so that it is more convenient for you to think about the future and express your civic views.
and the creation of jobs in the construction of roads does not take time.
in addition, in connection with the adoption of this document, amendments and additions are made to the water, land, budget and environmental codes and a number of other documents.
today, the main risk of obesity is overweight and obesity, which reduce life expectancy by 10-15 years.
if certain goods are purchased due to the threat of strengthening the dollar, their value should be converted into tenge and sent to the market.
now we, people of art, have received an order from the president and have quickly begun this issue.
According to him, it is necessary to inform the population about the upcoming elections and convey to every citizen of Kazakhstan that his vote is important.
the people's representatives approved the bill "On Ratification of the Treaty on Accession of the Republic of Armenia to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014."
It is worth noting that from April 13 to May 24, Akmola region announced a month for spring improvement, sanitary cleaning and landscaping of settlements.
Since then, four tedhalmata have been organized on various topics.
According to the regional department of domestic policy, thus, for the first time in the country, such powerful equipment was launched that meets international requirements for the processing of raw materials and the quality of products.
According to the expert jamestownfoundration Vladyka Sokor, the CEC showed that the election commission is carefully prepared for the election process.
at the meeting, the preparation of agro-formations was carefully worked out.
again such difficult times.
According to the information, 40.8 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the economy of the region during this period, while indicators increased in six districts of the region.
In this regard, for the implementation of the initiative of the head of state, voiced at the 16th congress of the Nұr Otan party, it is planned to implement 15 projects with the participation of large foreign investors, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Following the conference, a joint appeal was adopted by the conference participants to support the international anti-corruption movement and make efforts to strengthen the solid foundations of our states.
During the action, most participants in the event received advice on the execution of court acts, registration of rights to real estate, legal entities, etc.
At the end of the meeting, the wife of the gardener of the Battle Herlan Nahuana handed the Maghripa Nahuana the keys to a 5-room apartment, the wife of Denis Gorbunov love the humpback and New Year's gifts to children 3.
At the end of the meeting, Adilbek Dzhaksybekov noted that one of the main goals of the state's activities is to strengthen the health care base.
We note the significant potential of the CIS development, "E. Idrissov said during a press conference following the meeting.
Time density requires annual meetings and appropriate responses to the challenges ahead.	in turn , mr. lukashenko noted the eaeu states should demonstrate their unity on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the victory .	0,60
military personnel studied the preparation of equipment, weapons for combat use, disguising the area from the enemy's source, providing medical assistance in the field, and methods of engineering supply at the Shesha training ground.	the soldiers have studied in detail the preparations for combat use technology , bringing weapons to fight , masking areas of health care in the field , methods and techniques of engineering equipment .	0,60
in the regional centers and cities of the capital and Almaty, in order to quickly respond to complaints from graduates and parents received during the championship, the coordination headquarters for the UNT is established.	the regional centers and astana and almaty will have the headquarters on the coordination and conducting of the unt to respond quickly to requests and complaints of the graduates and their parents at the time of the unt .	0,60
The first results of the program can be seen in March this year, when 1357 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 76.5 thousand square meters. m	the government developed a program of regional development up to 2020 , focused on a rental housing .	0,60
a good event will contribute to the continuation of good deeds in all regions of the country. "
citizens in line were provided with about 1 thousand 400 apartments, the deputy said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the active implementation of a number of state long-term programs aimed at the development of key industries in the country.
It should be noted that the certification of military personnel will be organized and implemented in accordance with the requirements of the guidance documents.
The work of the forum is aimed at making proposals on priority areas for preserving and studying the culture and traditions of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that in 2014, in accordance with the plan to ensure economic growth, the Ministry of Energy carried out a set of measures to bring oil production to the planned volumes.
In total, the city has more than 600 multi-storey residential buildings, which will be updated under the housing and communal modernization program. the city has more than 600 high-rise buildings , all of them will be renovated in the framework of the modernization of housing , " head of architecture and urban planning of kyzylorda region seilkhan toibazarov said .
Nrla zhol "is not only accurate program which is calculated on each step, it is confidence in the stable future", - he added.
The Metropolitan also invited the Minister to take part in the trilateral exhibition of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation.
the introduction of corporate governance in the field of education will increase the efficiency of financial costs for technical and industrial education, will increase the demand for specialists in the region, as well as ensure the employment of graduates.
the enterprise fulfilled 107.6% of the annual plan, in the mining industry - 119.7%.
we thank every veteran who has shown military feats on the front line, who worked in the rear.
assistance in domestic work, delivery of medicines, food.
the art of young artists, creative groups of the school showed that active youth live in the village.
To date, 3 thousand 566 appeals have been received from young people.
currently, representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises are invited to switch to international rules for the exhaustion of regional rules that do not require the consent of the owner of the trademark.
however, in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 28 of the constitutional law, citizens and public associations that do not form electoral funds in accordance with the constitutional law are entitled to conduct election campaigning that does not require funding.
The head of state congratulated the participants on the beginning of the forum and noted the active participation of young people in the implementation of the main initiatives.
in addition, the bill defines and reflects the consequences of the application of minimum social standards and guarantees.
One of the challenges faced by Kazakhstan was the search for qualified specialists needed to maintain sustainable growth.	the participants of the meeting thanked the head of state and emphasized that they are glad to strengthen the relations with kazakhstan .	0,60
The most solemn moment was the presentation to the Semipalatinsk garrison of the regional command "East" of the victorious pennant from Karaganda in the relay.
we, the youth of today, are happy.
Meetings were also held with labor collectives of enterprises of the chemical industry of the region, where deputies of the Senate answered numerous questions regarding legislative support for the industrial and innovative development of the country.
At this championship, our country won 3 gold and 2 silver medals and took 3rd place in the team competition.
Representatives of akimat of the region and kha, ethnocultural centers in national costumes of each ethnic group took part in the relay reception ceremony.
According to him, 5 institutional reforms proposed by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev take time.
Following the meeting, the head of state set a number of tasks related to the development of engineering education.
Last year, this educational indicator was lower than the UNT.
its goal is to unite generations born in different periods through music, protect our country, our land from enemies, and respect those who laid the foundation for an independent country, "the report said.
The head of the region noted that not all banks show equal activity in working with state programs to support business.
each participating team prepared the Kazakh national cuisine and spoke about its composition and preparation.
in general, in the reporting period, the cup was transferred to the Treasury Department, other winners were awarded medals and diplomas.
then I used a way to extract energy from the wind and the sun, "he said.
Implementation of a dedicated testing system for active police officers and staff candidates to test skills and personality and improve the selection of police officers based on their business ability.
An important role is played by the support of the Russian Consulate General in Uralsk named after M. Ntemisov, after which the scientific and scientific-methodological Russian language received the support of future teachers and literature.
March is a reflection of the revival of our native land.
the rating is compiled separately for each type of hospital.
the political will and future for the further promotion of justice have been identified and the Supreme Court is proposing the further development of the independence of judges.	according to him , the first article of the constitution of the republic of kazakhstan defines the economic development for the sake of the people as a one of the basic principles of the state 's activity .	0,61
in the Great Patriotic War, the Kazakh country demonstrated its fighting spirit, the rich Kazakh people.	we are proud of your unprecedented heroism , courage and love for the motherland .	0,61
Akim of Astrakhan district congratulated the winners of the contest talgat of the Erseites with a large family, a family of teachers in three generations, asylbek and the celebration of Kassymovs, as well as a family of Suleimen and Gulnar Zhusuns.	mayor of astrakhan district talgat yerseitov congratulated the winners - a large family , a dynasty of teachers , family of kasymov and zhusunov .	0,61
The main gift for them was a tourist trip to rest in the chanakalle zone for two people.	two lucky ticket holders fielded legendary war in turkey .	0,61
In turn, the head of the region noted that the region is open to all investors.	in turn , the head of the region noted that the region is absolutely open to all investors who are interested in beneficial cooperation but first it is necessary to solve the problem of the sale of electricity .	0,61
In order to preserve jobs and stabilize production processes, memoranda were concluded between the akimat of South Kazakhstan region and the largest production enterprises of the region, including kazatomprom, Kentau Transformer Plant JSC, Petrokazakhstan Oilports JSC, standard cement LLP, etc.
The CEC did not announce the agenda before the start of the session, but this does not require the law.
Recall, the international conference "Transport corridors of Eurasia: new areas of cooperation" is devoted to the discussion of topical issues of development of transport corridors of Kazakhstan and the countries of Eurasia.
it is planned to place solar electric energy in the Arshaly district.
The head of state noted that such a position is the ultimate basis of the dynamic and harmonious Kazakh path.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the event presented the works of schoolchildren trying to introduce innovations in science.
and even wrote a book of buckbergens, "Life is full of struggle," not respecting that the exploits of our ancestors in the years when they survived the Tolarsak were an example for the younger generation.
According to him, in tenge terms, housing prices increased compared to the rest in the city.
independence is a sacred duty to past ancestors and a great responsibility to the future generation. nursultan nazarbayev stressed that mangilik yel is a philosophy of life of independence .
The head of state congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Victory Day.
As for history, this is the way.
A. Khachaturyan, who wrote the music, believes that the sharp drummaturgical plot and artistic image leave the old land audience indifferent.
this is a high indicator in the republic.
In grades 8-10, Alice Petrov won this nomination.
now children are introducing the drip irrigation method and rain nozzles for sowing water.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the canteens of five schools of the city have been renovated, equipped with modern equipment, and provided with full hot meals.
The deal provides for joint work in several areas of the educational sphere: changing the field of education, promoting the application of innovations in the learning process, as well as improving the skills of the 21st century and preparing young people for employment.
Within the framework of cultural cooperation, an agreement was signed on the holding of a joint international festival for the exchange of experience and technologies in the field of art and culture, as well as the participation of Chinese archaeologists in research work in ancient Taraz, where Chinese artists expressed a desire to take part in events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
germanwings, in connection with the crash of the airline, the head of state sent a telegram of condolence to the king of Spain, the felipe and the federal chancellor of Germany.
at a meeting of the Minister of Culture and Sports a. Mukhamediuly, representatives of national federations and sports organizations presented a report on the results of the work of the federations of the Republic of Kazakhstan in winter and summer sports.
Kazakhstan adheres to the position that commercial, trade and other economic ties contribute to ensuring confidence, stability and security between countries.
The implementation of 5 institutional reforms proposed by the President of Kazakhstan following the results of the forum is the basis for Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
In turn, on the part of the guests of the meeting, in particular, members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, chairman of the regional Bulgarian ethnocultural center Darya Kravchenko, honorary citizen of the Alakol region spoke.
That is, the quasi-public sector will also develop openly and publicly in accordance with the requirements of the meritocracy, "he said.
It was also noted that the experience of Kazakhstan in strengthening peace and harmony between representatives of various ethnic groups and faiths can be used by other countries.
In addition, Kha Wko will develop the Altai Margin tourist cluster, adapting to the 86 steps of the Nation Plan.
The members of the team are glad that the primary party organization bears the name of our fellow countryman-hero, "said the deputy chief doctor of the Karatal district hospital of the tapen fish.
Soldiers of the honor guard company of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the action demonstrated the parade elements, performing the artistic use of weapons in service.
the Russians did not return us, fulfilled our request and shook hands.
According to him, the low qualification of the team, which impedes the development of the industry, and the lack of competition in various sectors.
the agreement also provides for the participation of representatives of the NPP in the supervisory boards of government bodies and small departmental development institutions.
The purpose of the agreements is to establish a mechanism of mutual cooperation in order to provide the population of the city with high-quality and affordable food products.
The seminar participants considered the topics of preventing corruption in the judiciary and law enforcement agencies, raised issues of combating corruption in the field of public service.
According to John Ordway, thanks to the strategic partnership, Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan are working together to strengthen and continue economic ties.
and, with regard to the format and structure of electronic copies of customs documents, the amendments made to certain decisions of the panel were approved.
most open educational institutions are private.
and avoid various distortions.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhanov wished the children good health, happiness, success in their studies.
In the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a canine unit was opened for the development of kinology on the basis of the nursery of the military police detachment of the Almaty regional garrison.
Within the framework of the bill, it is envisaged to improve the formation of tariffs for the transmission of electricity by introducing subscriber payments, "said B. Zhaksaliev.
In the reporting year, the second perinatal and stroke centers, a rehabilitation center on the basis of the children's Kostanay city hospital opened in the ore
Abdel Fattah expressed confidence that relations between our countries, based on centuries-old friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation, will continue to effectively serve the interests of the friendly peoples of Kazakhstan and Egypt.
the facility was built at the entrepreneur's own expense.
For comparison, in 2013, enterprises included in the group produced 76.8 thousand tons of cathode copper.
this programme will allow for specific employment activities for each target group.
According to him, workers of state institutions who, having changed their organizational and legal form, have become "enterprises on the right of economic management," are granted paid work leave for a period of no more than 1 month with compensation in the amount of monthly wages for health correction, fixed minimum monthly wages and additional wages.
on the left and right side is an element of national ornament, "the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Recep Erdogan visited the 2 thousand-seat mosque built by Turkey, and also met with representatives of the clergy and citizens.
and the fitness of young people for military service, taking into account education, specialty, physical training.
The Supreme Court proposed the development of a special procedure for resolving court disputes in which investors are involved. supreme court has initiated the creation of a special order of resolution of disputes involving investors , " the speaker noted .
lifting capacity 2.5 tons.
To continue the repair in the educational organizations, a hedge was drawn up in the amount of 5.8 million tenge.
Currently, the advanced scientific centers of the country in order to improve the breed of meat sheep with scientists of the West Kazakhstan Regional University named after the Khan genre are conducting breeding work on the selection cultivation of "edilbay" meat in the Zhalagash district.
For this purpose, American shooters and a non-profit and charitable organization created on the initiative of the Embassy of Kazakhstan, a gala evening held by the Nauryz commission, brought together more than five hundred representatives of the White House, state department, congress, diplomatic corps, business and public circles, as in previous years, "the report said.
the number of criminal cases decreased in the capital, but the number of administrative cases increased. the number of criminal cases dropped today .
deputy of the Bundestag of Germany, member of the pass from the Hdo/Hao party K. Strenz congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his election victory and expressed warm condolences to the German Federal Chancellor a. Merkel.
Over the past period of 2015, the call center of the Prosecutor General's Office received more than 21 thousand calls.	in the result the prosecutor 's office of east kazakhstan region protected the labor rights of 166 employees of  taskara " llp .
each of them provides the taxpayer with the possibility of paying tax only once in one of the contracting states.
entrepreneurs are provided with a different platform for trading.
he is the chairman of the regional district ethnocultural center.
Not to mention the fact that in order to further strengthen Kazakhstan's unity and preserve the Kazakh model of tolerance and consent, the civic principle must dominate. it has been rightly pointed out that the principles of nationality have to prevail for further strengthening of the kazakh identity and the preservation of our own model of tolerance and harmony .
In 2014, 15 projects worth 39.5 billion tenge (1245 jobs) were put into operation.
Head of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of Akimat of Zhambyl region reported in detail.
with the help of a call center and a special site, you can make an appointment with the necessary specialist without leaving the house.	the project will provide an opportunity to save time and reduce queues at the reception .	0,61
during the verification of voter signatures collected in support of presidential candidates: in subscription lists for a particular candidate executed by one person more than once, if the data corresponding to the subscription list is incomplete, if there is a written statement of the voter who withdrew his signature, voter signatures made for the deceased, made by a person who does not have active suffrage. signatures made with one hand for a few people , made by a person more than once in the signature lists for a particular candidate , with incomplete data in accordance with the subscription list , with a written statement from a voter to withdraw his signature made by a person not having active suffrage performed for deceased persons are recognized as invalid , " the statement reads .
The congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in the capital is a global dialogue platform that has withstood criticism of the times.	patriarch bartholomew i , expressed great appreciation to kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev for the organization of such a process and noted that astana became the capital of all religions .	0,61
its production is located in the Zhambyl region.	the plant is located in the territory of zhambyl region .	0,61
Kokai greedy told historical stories that inspire the spirit.	zhadikov kokay shared breathtaking stories and tales .	0,61
the leader of the democratic party "ak zhol." Peruashev supported this decision taking into account the experience of anti-crisis work.
so a real metal fraction will appear from the idea.
preparation and discussion of the training programme.
this measure will allow potential suppliers to preliminary consider the technical characteristics and in case of problems lead them to the buyer, "he said.
To implement the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan at the 6th Congress of Judges, the court developed a civil procedure code. in order to adjust the tasks set by the president of kazakhstan at the sixth congress of judges , the court has developed a new version of the civil procedure code and started to develop a new administrative procedure code .
To date, we plan that the volume of harvested grain will be no less than last year, and this will not have a negative impact on wheat exports, "said S. Omarov.
According to him, this practice is used for the first time, before there was no such system anywhere.
practical classes were held at the training ground of airmobile troops.
Currently, our military daughter is preparing to take part in the first parade on the way to military service, a parade in honor of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, which will be held in May this year.
since two of the winning students studied in Germany, they had to work remotely.
As noted, today in the Mughalzhar district there are 1,149 children in line for kindergarten, of which 600 are in the district center.
In this regard, he noted, stability is important, which is an unconditional condition for the successful implementation of the course of the head of state aimed at further implementing the planned reforms.
everyone who had previously been evacuated returned home.
the company won a competition for the implementation of an advanced project in the framework of public-private partnership.
"killing one innocent man, killing all mankind."
Speakers reported on measures taken by the competent authorities of their States to combat drug trafficking, cross-border organized crime, cybercrime and cyberspace.
the issue of Eurasian integration has not been neglected by our governments and is very important. eurasian integration issues are under review .
According to the Hungarian minister, Europe should pursue an open policy for further development, expand relations with developing countries and build a dialogue with the eo.
The report notes that 14 out of 17 kindergartens planned for 2015 have been opened in Almaty since the beginning of the year.
you chose a special specialty without a work schedule, service to the homeland is round the clock.
previously in Latvia, Austria, Germany we built plants for the processing of such waste.	as noted , the plant will apply the latest technology and equipment .	0,61
And today, the party leadership and the political council bureau announced an appeal in support of the initiative to hold early presidential elections.	then the head of the faction noted that the bureau of the party 's political council and the leadership of the party today appealed to support the initiative of holding presidential elections .	0,61
Participants of the competition will be involved in the process of attracting tourists for the period of preparation and holding of EXPO-2017 as part of projects of nominated tourist routes.	also , the winners will be involved in the process of attracting tourists during the preparation and holding the exhibition within the nominated projects of tourist tours .	0,61
Currently, enterprises are being built that meet modern environmental requirements, which ensures the safe future of the city.	currently , the companies are built that meet modern environmental standards , which ensure a secure future city .	0,61
The regional department of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption regularly conducts such educational and educational events among youth and students.	regional department of kazakhstan agency for civil service affairs and anti-corruption holds a variety of events , educational seminars and student conferences among the youth field on prevention and fight against corruption .	0,61
under the influence of this seminar, a special discussion platform was created. due to this seminar a unique platform for dialogue was created .
during the evening of memory, an art documentary was shown.
development of high technologies, development of oil and gas, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications, tourism, construction, automotive and manufacturing industries, transport, innovation.
He also noted that in order to provide orders to small and medium-sized enterprises of the North Kazakhstan region, a special action plan was approved.
One of the main tasks in the field of education is to solve the problem of emergency schools. one of the most important tasks in the field of education is to address emergency schools ' issue .
In this regard, annual events are held, local executive bodies are obliged to provide all necessary measures to ensure that every child feels care for himself.
therefore, I associate my life with the army and conscientiously serve in the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
Vaccination of the population is carried out free of charge in accordance with the National Vaccination Calendar against 21 infectious diseases, "the report said.
that is, 2550 citizens are intoxicated, 8851 are speeding, the rest are pedestrians and safety belt violators, "said Bauyrzhan Rakhimzhanov, head of the public safety department of the North Kazakhstan region.
It is noted that the clerk highly appreciated the Kazakhstan model of interethnic and interfaith peace and harmony, which is the most important in conditions of instability in the modern world.
A lot of work has been done in the region last year, but there is still a lot of work ahead, "the akim said.
The competition was organized together with the culture department of the KM "Center for the Study of Languages" of the Astrakhan region, where great importance is paid to the culture and traditions of the Kazakh people.
The commander of the KPB company, Lieutenant Yelnur Dyusenbinov, the head of the hardware ZKPB, senior sergeant Muratbek Slamov and the head of the radio station p140m, was noticed as a junior sergeant among the best servicemen.
The relocation of geese is especially interesting - there are remains of animals found only in Pavlodar region and Canada.
Today, we can say that the technology we chose in 2014 paid off. may be said that nowadays the technology that formed the basis of the experiment of 2004 has been justified .
The Council may be represented by competent specialists of the Department for Organizational and Mobilization Work and the Main Military Medical Directorate of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	advices provided by competent experts of the department of organizational-mobilization work the general staff and the main military medical directorate of the armed forces of kazakhstan , the department reported .	0,61
He ended the war in Japan in 1945.	nickolay voldyrev celebrated the 88th anniversary .	0,61
In the region, the issues of preschool education of children, which are our future, are positively resolved.
Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Major General Muslim Altynbayev became a student of a special course from our country.
in addition, aircraft will run along recreational, Kokshetav routes.
working as a dispatcher in the fire department, fate met him with her husband and gave him two sons.
in Astrakhan district, the head of the special department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in the Akmola region held a meeting with the participation of akims of rural districts, heads of district services, civil servants, heads of budget institutions and entrepreneurs.
apply German technologies in the production of broiler meat at the enterprise.
the driving licence exam is fully automated here.
then our veteran from 1958 to 1978 served as a teacher in various military schools and shared his life experience with students.
Overall, the analysis showed that the establishment of specialized courts had contributed to a thorough examination of materials relating to minors, to the expected results in cases of offences and crimes and in the resolution of disputes.
All participants of the competition were congratulated by Deputy Director of the Center for Public Consent of the regional akim's office Asylbek Tugelev and wished good luck, "the Department of Internal Policy reported.
The improvement of this indicator is directly related to the effective work of law enforcement agencies to combat counterfeiting, "he said.
regulatory documents of the organization are compiled: rules of procedure, rules of financing and rules of personnel management.
the chairman of the relevant election commission is responsible for the procedure and has the right to demand that any person who violates the provisions of the constitutional law obstructs the conduct of voting leave it.
Following the meeting, its participants decided that the government needs to support the bill relating to the country's budget.
cable products, granular polypropylene, caustic soda, ruberoid, steel balls and pipes, fittings, paper products, corrugated products and other products.
The chairman of the Almaty branch of the republican public election observation commission reported on the peculiarities of the organization of public control over the election process.
Deputy Mayor of the city rose bazhanovna bokhanova, head of the city department of education marat zhayylkhanovich aralbayev spoke at the event.
According to the press service, the upcoming meeting will discuss the formation of its own tribal base, which has become a key source.
coordination of units and joint exercises will begin tomorrow.
thanks to the timely, prompt response and response of all rescue services, in conditions of sharp low temperatures on roads, there are no deaths among those remaining in snow drifts.
The meeting focused on trade and economic relations.
we helped those in need before, but 100 days before the 70th anniversary of the great victory, we decided to start a targeted action under this name.	young people- students , pupils volunteers do what they can for the elderly people- veterans of the great patriotc war and labor veterans .	0,61
the second place was taken by Pavlodar Victoria resunova, the third - Almaty sagidulla akhtanov.	in the category  jury selection " : first place - aynur bokina from astana , victoriya rezunova from pavlodar , sagidulla akhtanov from almaty .
after that, the children were familiarized with the history of the department, showed helicopters and aircraft in the department.
The head of state once again spoke about the elections held on April 26.
on anniversary, significant holidays in the country, veterans will not be left without the attention of department employees.
The contribution to the improvement of urban architecture was made by the private company Ecosever.
adilbek jaksybekov handed letters of thanks to athletes.
at each station, collecting and concert programs will be organized, in schools - meetings with veterans.
according to him, when the creation of kha began, no one had an understanding of the ultimate goal of the head of state, and over time he learned that this was the key to peace and harmony.
This program will allow citizens to be provided with work and solve housing issues.
in this regard, the role of the Kazakh-Romanian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation was noted, at which it is planned to hold the next meeting in Bucharest in May this year.
In addition, the head of state noted that in Strategy-2050 "corruption is social abuse.
The purpose of the bill is to improve the legislation governing the arbitration sphere, develop an alternative system for the regulation of disputes in general, and reduce the burden on the competent (state) courts.
As the head of state noted, thanks to the wise policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan will have a bright future.
On the occasion of the 180th anniversary of Sh. Ualikhanov, an international set of events "Eternal Immortal Star" will be held.
Since 2000, I have studied the literary environment of Abay and his works.	the 2016 year will mark the 160th anniversary of one of the followers of abay arup tanibergenov , the talented poet and philosopher .	0,61
because the channel of assistance to them will be increased.	all planned social programs will be implemented .	0,61
The newly launched workshop will produce salt for livestock, the Governor's Office of the region reported.	to date , 800 people involved in the production process .	0,61
organized an exhibition of crafts for people with disabilities.	the forum participants expressed the wish to meet the needs of persons with disabilities .	0,61
volume index in the mining industry - 104.1%. aktobemunaygas " has increased gas production by 45.3 % , " voskhod oriel " - production of chrome ore by 41.4 % .
In addition, the Ministry is currently working to increase the refurbished credit and leasing obligations of the agro-industrial complex entities to 400.0 billion tenge, while the agribusiness 2020 program will be amended accordingly.
K. Zhanakov is sure that cooperation with the expo exhibition will allow the plant to receive guaranteed orders, and provide workers with stable wages.
aa. Idrissov supported the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to convene a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in 2017-2018. for his candidacy for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council and support for the international specialized exhibition Expo 2017 in the capital.
The objective of the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International Air Transport, done at Montreal on 28 May 1999, is to introduce standards of international law in the field of civil aviation.
The first stage of the laboratory is the acquisition of innovative equipment for iron processing and the necessary for the educational process.
A roadmap for the development of entrepreneurship in the regions has been adopted.
postamats are special automated mail stations designed to facilitate communication with the mail operator. postamat is a special postal automated station for the provision of goods and services ; it is designed to simplify the work with the postal operator .
at the "negative-yashybulaksky" training ground for a month, they improve their skills in working with horses, as well as riding in difficult mountainous places.
Currently, a new bus station and others are operating in the city of Taraz in the village of Momyshuly, construction has been completed and a passenger service point has been commissioned.
they will be devoted to the holding of events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of World War II, the addition of surcharges to wages depending on the severity of working conditions, raising the wages of administrative state employees, subsidizing the costs of enterprises in the field of processing.
All participants of the training expressed the wish that such events should be very effective and necessary, that they should be held on a systematic basis.
According to the head of the Zhambyl District Department of Education, the Bakirova Lash, this is the 30th kindergarten in the district.
we stand before you for the courage and heroism shown at the front, for the patiotic example shown to the younger generation.	for courage and bravery unexampled kosenkov ivan was awarded the order of the patriotic war of the second degree .	0,61
During the meeting of the commission, issues of trade, economic, investment, transport, including port cooperation, relevance and prospects of bilateral cooperation in industry, agriculture and other areas were discussed.	particularly issues of port cooperation , industry , agriculture and other fields were also touched upon at the event .	0,61
annual capacity of the enterprise engaged in the production and processing of livestock and dairy products, 3.6 thousand tons.	the annual output of the company is 3.6 thousand tons of products that allows you to fully meet the demand of the regional population .	0,61
- use of cash registers and additive terminals	the use of a cash register and pos- terminals ;	0,61
our polling stations operated from 7:00 to 20:00. our polls were open from 7am to 8pm .
In the village of Michurino, it is planned to build a medical outpatient clinic for 75 visits per day.
At the same time, the taxpayer who closes his activities has the right to freedom of choice - to close the profession by conducting closed inspections by the tax authorities or make an opinion of the audit organization. "
elections are held in a calm and festive mood.
previously, schoolchildren, students and journalists came to the map of heroes.
ethnocultural associations of the local friendship house also developed a large concert program.
the session will be attended by more than 1,500 participants.
Amirzhan Saites this year turned 95 years old.
The head of the region noted the work done to strengthen inter-ethnic harmony with the guests of the meeting.
A.Mamin noted that the necessary efforts are being made to implement the tasks of turning Kazakhstan into a transport and logistics center of Eurasia.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, this company is included in the second five-year plan of the industrialization map to increase the volume of own production.
the second and third places were taken by teams of Pavlodar and Almaty regions.
six of them today live in Karaganda.
The mandate of trust entrusted to me is an assessment of who works to strengthen an independent country. the mandate of the trust that was handed me proves an estimate of our work for the strengthening of independence of our state .
the Thai Minister also acknowledged that the great potential in certain areas of partnership was unfortunately not being fully utilized.
a.zhaksybekov instructed to strengthen work in the field of public-private partnership to solve the problem of lack of places in kindergartens, as well as to eliminate three-shift education in secondary schools this year, thereby eliminating the excessive completeness of schools.
thus, consumers pay for power supply enterprises organizing the process of supplying electric energy from the manufacturer to the end user.
a small concert was organized for the winners on the station square.
The work of the conference is devoted to the popularization of the history of Turkestan, which derives roots from the bowels of the centuries, the heritage of the Khoja Akhmet and its mausoleum, the moral path of our ancestors buried in the mausoleum.
March today was a sign of unity, success, understanding and stability of Kazakhstan's society.
people are used to holding elections at a high level.
compared with international sources, Kazakhstan has risen from 54th to 49th place in terms of labor productivity in 5 years, taking fifty of the best countries in the world in terms of labor productivity.
As noted in the report, the chamber is invited to consider in the second reading legislative amendments on insurance and Islamic financing.
Sectoral types of entrepreneurship are regulated by special legislation.
these measures will strengthen the state of general physical training, the command spirit of the personnel and will increase the interest not only of the military, but also of the whole public in mass sports.
this agreement was concluded in Minsk on October 10, 2014.
It is worth noting that in order to sponsor, care for every house in the children's village, oil companies and educational organizations have been approved.
the people are a big force, but without state support it would be impossible to fulfill this task, "said the director of the Consent Foundation zulfia Bernei.
Production is scheduled to start in July this year.
According to the committee, on January 20 of this year S. Kusenov celebrated his 100th anniversary.
Involvement in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank project, established at the end of 2014.
I set myself a goal and go there, this is not a clothing factory and a modeling business, this is art, but the pinnacle of craft art, "said A. Abdubait.
V. Shkolnik noted that in Kazakhstan, with the support of the state, the wide distribution of energy-saving equipment is expected.
No administrative and/or criminal proceedings have been instituted for violations of electoral law.
work in three shifts, sometimes four.
only in those areas where they will be developed, and in relation to "potential violators," the vice minister concluded.
During the ceremony, which was attended by about ten thousand people, a minute silence was held in memory of the soldiers who died on the battlefield during the Great Patriotic War.
we have advanced in many areas, we cannot advance in this area. it is crucial to raise law enforcement agencies ' status and their responsibility to the citizens .
According to Tuleutaev, one of the factors that influenced the reduction of cancer incidence is the favorable environmental situation in the city.
According to him, the historically significant international conference on the development of financing, which will be held in the city of Ababa specialist from July 13 to 16, has the opportunity to qualitatively prepare the UN development financing agenda.
Currently, the employment centers of Kokshetau in three areas of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program have completed 100% of the work.
we are actively developing partnerships with our foreign partners, improving the transportation of energy resources.
without language there can be no nation.
The event was attended by about 100 people.
Then he received a message from such veterans as the seed of the Yegesh in the village of Saudakent, the Kemelbek of the Shamens in the city of Zhanatas, the Kalkaman of the Kassymbeks in the village of Zhayilma.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the participants were shown electronic methodological manuals in the direction, the imam was told about religious trends, received information about upcoming events this year, programs to support entrepreneurship.
According to observers from the Nұr Otan party, young people come to the early presidential elections in the morning and comply with all the requirements.
the third is based on work with the population, advice.
At the same time, according to the ministry, in 2014 the number of colleges with the introduction of the dual education system increased by 104.
According to the heads of the Semipalatinsk plant, construction by launching the production of autoclave gas concrete will be faster and will save money and time.
as part of the competition, a futsal tournament was also held.
thus, the metal is converted to an ionic form.
a plenary meeting of the agricultural holding will also be held.
fedor gavrilovich was on the Kalinin front.
now peasants mainly sow Russian seeds.
rising world oil prices and, as a result, belonging to Kazakhstan.
automation of the permit system eliminates direct communication between citizens and employees responsible for issuing permits. automation of licensing system excludes direct communication of citizens with public officers that issue documents .
The action was attended by 1000 people, including students of Kokshetau University named after A.Myrzakhmetov, higher and secondary educational institutions of the region and youth of Kokshetau.
thanks to your effective influence, friendly assistance, we signed a document on the completion of negotiations on the draft Agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU.
they have a rematch, this battle is of great interest to society, many want to come to this tournament, and it's also nice for us that it will be held in the capital, "said A.
Every day, when he got into the cavalry division, he participated in the battles near Stalingrad, reached Ukraine, where he was waiting for his victory.
Since 2011, more than one billion two hundred million tenge has been allocated for the implementation of projects under the White Stream program, of which more than one billion one hundred eighty four million have been spent.
the branch cooperates with the city perinatal center for the treatment and screening of eye diseases of newborns.
there was also an increase in the total number of scientists - from 2009 thousand in 15 to 25.8 thousand at present.
The Development Bank constantly monitors the development by agent banks of credit funds allocated from the national fund.
locations of polling stations were checked for fire safety and document safety.
conceptually, new versions of these laws are associated with more effective protection of the constitutional rights of citizens.
60 veterans of the Second World War and 1 thousand 299 citizens equated to it live in Mangistau region today.
the number of small business facilities exceeds 1100.
The head of the World Bank delegation, Amitabh Muherjee, highly appreciated the role of the Kazakh prosecutor's office in the implementation of the project and confirmed his intention to continue cooperation on issues of effective use of funds.
According to the akimat, in the village of Amanotkel, Ostrovsky district, an individual entrepreneur opened a workshop for the production of plastic windows and doors two years ago.
this is the volume that we now have for the modernization of the housing and communal services sector, "said K. Nskenbaev.
In addition, on the same day, the deputies of the Majilis approved in the first reading the bill "On Informatization" with accompanying amendments.
He informed that the results of the four past forums were formed by a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions as a permanent forum of religious leaders who, together with well-known politicians and leaders of international organizations, discuss the most pressing issues of our time.
According to experts, over the past five years, such a drop in oil prices in Europe and Kazakhstan has not occurred.
On the first day of the Commission's work, a political declaration was adopted by consensus, including global progress and a number of difficulties and shortcomings in the implementation of these international instruments.
Also in Novoishimsky district opened a 25-meter swimming pool.
The event discussed the implementation of projects within the framework of the industrialization map of the region, support for domestic producers.
In turn, after the official opening of the exhibition, guests were shown a short film about the chanakalla, as well as a lottery among the guests.
The right to nominate candidates belongs to republican associations and citizens registered in the prescribed manner. the right to nominate candidates belongs to the republican public associations registered in the established order , and citizens through self-nomination .
I sincerely congratulate you on the Easter holiday!
Recall that in the period from January 28 to February 8, 2017 in Almaty it is planned to hold 28 world university games.
According to the ministry, it is planned to integrate the system of the "state center for the payment of pensions" of the Ministry of Health and Social Development and the unified system of higher education management in order to automatically monitor employment processes and study the reliability of employment information from March this year.
in Alma-Ata, an icebreaker on a high mountain, an international ski jumping complex, and a ski and biathlon complex are ready for the Olympics.
not only me, but also other observers were amazed by the large number who came to the polls. not only for me but for many others it was a great surprise to see a lot of voters at the voting stations .
they are waiting for a thirty-day course of a young fighter.
According to the organizers of the rally, the choice of the West Kazakhstan region as the venue for such a large-scale event is not free.
therefore, this event is unconditional evidence of increased confidence in the legal system of Kazakhstan, recognition of achievements in the formation of democratic institutions in the country, the creation of universally recognized mechanisms to guarantee the protection of human rights and freedoms.
K. Turgankulov also told international experts that the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan is open for cooperation on all issues and aspects of the organization of the electoral process and is ready to provide the ecu/diak experts with all the necessary information and materials for their effective work.
At the same time as the President of Kazakhstan took office, the government resigned, and also ceased the activities of state bodies and persons close to the activities of the President, akims of regions and cities of Almaty.
prices for non-ferrous and steel products have decreased, ensuring the flow of funds to the country's budget.
However, employees of the Prosecutor General's Office conducted an audit of local akimats for the distribution of subsidies from 2013 to 2014, and numerous gaps were identified.
bakytzhan sagintayev instructed to complete the reconstruction and modernization of the Ministry in accordance with the approved schedule.
Recall that the HA Council took the initiative to hold early elections.
all our agreements are reflected in our joint statement signed by all, and it, together with the hostile declaration, will guide the work of the Shu member States in the coming years.
the bill defines the structure of the contract on activities, all aspects of the relationship between the state and business, measures of state support, issues of dispute resolution.
holders of the best works are awarded memorabilia.
Cooperation with various organizations and associations for election observation is a constant experience of the CEC of Kazakhstan, "said M. Sarsembayev.
At the end of the event, Orthodox believers held religious events.
children between the ages of 2 and 7 with visually impaired vision and dementia are taught free of charge.
A photo gallery of veterans of the Second World War on the 70th anniversary of the Victory will be created in the military units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
not only respect the right, but also use it correctly without violating it.
The Global Strategy on Nutrition, Physical Activity and Health, adopted at the 57th session of the World Health Assembly in May 2014, proposed measures to organize healthy nutrition at school.
among them are orphans, children left without parental care, children from large and low-income families, as well as gifted children who have achieved success in education, sports and creativity.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
it is a golden transportation environment on maritime railway and air routes.
creation of a system of system and comfortable air communication with leading financial centers of the financial center.
The film presents data that is still not known to many Spaniards, the reasons why the Spaniards are sent to karlaga.
therefore, the minimum stage is halved.
it is necessary to ensure the turnout of the population for the elections, "said the president of the" civil alliance of Kazakhstan "nurlan erimbets.
It is no coincidence that Ukrainians and Kazakhs have a lot of Turkish words, "said the leader of the nation.
as a result, the topic "linguistic fate - the fate of the people" was not disclosed, it is not clear that the dictionary fund does not correspond to the proper level of the candidate for the highest state post of the country. "
first of all, the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate plays an important role in the formation of ideological consciousness for Kazakh youth.	therefore , this book should be at home every citizen of kazakhstan ,  the author believes .
rejection of points.
Akim noted that next year, instead of the old "Turksib," a new 32nd station will be launched, thus, the energy supply program will be fully implemented in the city.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, there are 180 veterans in the Aktobe region, including 141 in the city of Aktobe, 39 in the districts.
both veterans emigrated from the territory of the region.
currently most weather stations are owned by a cashydromet, only a few work individually.
offshore financial center.
the agreement provides for the addition of dividends and interest on the income tax of the state receiving income under the minimum premium.
in the festive program: variety ballet "samruk," dance theater "talisman," city children's and youth center named after a.zhubanov. Aktobe College of Music, Aktobe College of Humanities, etc. Military Institute of Air Defense Forces, m.b. Aktobe Law Institute and winners of city creative competitions.
I am sure that you will continue military training, successfully enter higher educational institutions and become worthy officers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, "said the head of the school, Colonel Mukhtar Maykeev.
"Why don't we go to the gala ballet on January 23rd?"
The first three of the 5 reforms are the most reliable.
As the head of state noted, the elections have ended in the country, and important work will begin.
the company carries out its activities in Akshabulak, Nural deposits and in the Aksai South Turgai lowland of Kyzylorda region.
It addressed the serious problems of the past year and raised issues such as prevention and prevention of loss of life.
Therefore, we have a full opportunity to work effectively through strengthening the partnership of the two countries, "said D. Akhmetov.
hearing the chairman of the council, the head of the region said that the construction of the automobile plant will be provided with maximum support from the regional administration.
currently they have completed an individual combat training course and have begun training in a single combat composition.
the program operator is Baiterek Holding, which united all financial institutions.
Now the system is fully implemented by the regional center, islands, state-owned areas.
As the senator noted, an important part of interstate relations is inter-parliamentary dialogue.
According to him, the antimonopoly authority has not yet identified any controversial issues on competition.
For a worthy contribution to ensuring the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, strengthening public harmony in the country, strengthening Kazakhstani patriotism in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as in honor of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, a number of citizens were awarded the jubilee medal of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "20 years," the statement said.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state to organize the celebration of the March holiday and unity day in honor of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. based on the instructions of the president , in honor of the 20th anniversary of the assembly of people of kazakhstan the work on the organization of the celebration of nauryz and the day of unity should be started now .
In our region, "20 good deeds of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" will be aimed at providing assistance to veterans and those in need, "said Head of the Secretariat of East Kazakhstan region Erkinbek Ayazbayev.
the publication will also be presented electronically for public access via the Internet.
the plant is engaged in the production of frozen fish meat, semi-finished fish and fish flour.
an auction will also be introduced.
Akim noted the large-scale work on the comprehensive development of the younger generation in the metropolis.
he shows our beautiful girls who serve with dignity in the Kazakh army, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the participants of the meeting discussed bilateral international cooperation in the fight against crime, especially in the fight against extremism and illegal migration.
in Kazakh society, as well as among young people, the issue of early elections has recently been discussed a lot.
we came to your capital to meet with this expanded composition, and also invited members of the opposition. we came to astana to meet other members of the opposition .
The parliamentary delegation of Kazakhstan was invited to the grand opening of the exhibition with the participation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and examined the stands of a number of world agricultural producers.
on the agenda, the group members heard a report by Kamal Burkhanov, a member of the committee on social and development of the chamber, doctor of political sciences, on the topic "Plan of the nation-100 steps for all the modern state."
1330.8 thousand square meters of housing were introduced in the city, which is 14.5% more than in 2013.
Today, the number of issued keys under this program is 1 thousand 357.
The deputies approved in the first reading amendments to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on insurance and Islamic financing.
in mountain and steppe, day and night conditions, snipers trained to find landmarks in an unfamiliar place, studied the tactical and technical characteristics of weapons, underwent reconnaissance training
The deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region, who was present at the opening ceremony of the school, said that other schools of the Omsk region will also undergo an engineering and technical examination and overhaul of schools recognized as emergency.
today, more than 40 countries of the world intend to create free trade zones with eurozone countries.
their wages should also be based on the principles of competition, that is, it depends on the results of work.
bilateral interest was expressed in further strengthening cooperation in various areas of common interest, "the statement said.
every responsible person of society clearly understands the importance of participating in elections, understands that this will strengthen the achievements of the state, strengthen its vector and democracy, "concluded A. Kaukenov.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, in order to be worthy of the title of the most beautiful soldier of the garrison, each participant had to demonstrate all his knowledge and skills in various fields, as well as creative opportunities in singing, dancing, making samples of clothes and hair.
The commission under the executive bodies of the region on the legalization of property in Kazakhstan received 198.3 applications for the legalization of property totaling 23,047 billion tenge:
The solemn event brought together 1,500 people.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev, the most important anniversary events announced at the enlarged government meeting on February 11 should go through universal information and education of citizens, first of all, educational character, strengthen unity and unity, consent of the country.
In addition, during 2015-2016, financing for the construction of rental housing was additionally increased by 180 billion tenge.
As noted by the city, the agreement is aimed at strengthening cooperation in ensuring the Kazakh-Kyrgyz border regime with the participation of border guards of the two republics.
we consider this a sign of the arrogance of the head of state. "
Also, specialists from Lithuania, together with metropolitan doctors, will examine and advise children who are being treated in the departments of burns and traumatology.
According to the Governor's Office, despite the fact that there is a shortage of housing in the inner territory of the city, the volume of construction over the past year has increased from 70 thousand square meters to 115 thousand square meters.
each ethnocultural association has a lot of experience.
We are descendants of ancestors who respected their path.
its launch will cover 50 people with jobs.
Removal of probationary period when hiring persons under the age of 18 in the Labour Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to resolve social issues in support of youth employment; to determine the term of conclusion of an employment contract with a young specialist who was first employed.
climate change and reducing the spread of greenhouse gases are being actively discussed in the world today.
also monitors the procedure for organizing and conducting competitions and sporting events on the scale of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, selecting athletes for the national team of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Reportedly, in. highly appreciated the fight against this serious disease in Kazakhstan.
married couples must be under the age of 35.
Kazakhstan pays great attention to the education and health of the younger generation, attracting significant investments in this industry.
Within the framework of the signed Roadmap for the development of cooperation in the defense industry, it is planned to increase the level of localization of repair and technical work, the department said.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Ukrainian side.
He noted that according to its advanced model, Kazakhstan can show the world the possibility of establishing peace and harmony between faiths, and also noted that the emirates are the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Akhmetov. He expressed support for Nazarbayev's efforts to develop and preserve the true spiritual and cultural values ​ ​ of Islam.
This year, with the help of sponsors, the apartment was renovated and new furniture was purchased.
Many organizations involved in certification do not have laboratories that determine the factors of the residential industry, and they are forced to attract such needs from outside, and they themselves are not fully provided with the appropriate equipment, "explained Dr. Argandykov.
this must be remembered, "the president said.
there in the group of Soviet occupation troops.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Belarusian side.
we are witnessing what the head of state said today, firmly entrenched in our society.	today , you , dear women , opened opportunities to be successful and achieve peaks in different areas ,  the governor of the region said .
the portal presents competent and complete information on privatization, legalization, accounting, auditing, tax and customs legislation, electronic procurement, regulatory acts.
At the same time, it is necessary to implement about ten large projects involving processing transnational companies, "the head of state said.
Before the start of this event, the heads of delegation of the participating states received President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
The same thing happens in the post office, and soon citizens will receive parcels through postamats.
Currently, all buildings are built.
The head of the region got acquainted with the work of a new fertile peasant farm. "
at the end of the film, he begins to learn his native language.
N. Umbetaev noted the importance of the upcoming 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
In Taraz city construction works for gasification of residential buildings in the valley "arai" for 260.0 million tenge have been started, for the current year 760.6 million tenge has been allocated additionally from the republican budget.
all of them will be registered online through a computer and sent to the www.meteoperson.kz website, "the statement said.
the bill regulates the requirements for drinking water quality at all stages of water supply - from the choice of sources of drinking water supply to supplies to water users, and defines general rules for water accounting.
Now each depositor can correctly control his pension savings, "says the deputy chairman of the board of BZhK Ruslan Erdenaev.
The participants of the meeting discussed the preparation of intellectual competitions, increasing the creative potential of students.
According to the ministry, this year the congress is timed to coincide with the 70th anniversary of the National Center for Scientific Surgery.
In addition, within the framework of the 2017 exhibition, the possibility of holding a thematic conference with an international agency was worked out.
At the beginning of this year, a general military competition for the title of the best company commander was held in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the examination, the linguistic commission unanimously decided by open voting that the presidential candidate of the Republic of Kazakhstan is fluent in the state language.
At present, in connection with the establishment of the Eurasian Economic Union, we are facing great proportions. the launching of the eaeu contributed appearance of the additional opportunities .
At the end of the meeting, the Governor of the region, the rope bozumbayev and the Consul General of the Russian Federation Sergey Annenkov expressed their readiness for the further development and strengthening of relations between the two countries.
they believe that a modernized market will give impetus to trade growth and increase the number of buyers.
It was also noted that governments timely inform the Eurasian Economic Commission about how the provisions on the model law in their states are applied.
the number of children enrolled in kindergartens reached 52.4 thousand.
In addition, the document pays great attention to the road issue.
and for violating the terms of special, anti-dumping, compensatory investments.
The event is attended by about 80 representatives of Croatian business, representing various sectors of their country's economy.
the metropolitan prosecutor's office and the Chamber of Entrepreneurs are ready to support all business entities, the necessary work is being carried out in this direction. the prosecutor 's office and the chamber of entrepreneurs are always ready to support business entities .
this depends on each paragraph of the five reforms.
According to him, 3 thousand 35 people were employed in 2 months of this year, which is 22.8% more than last year.
They involve a record number of military personnel of the country's armed forces and military equipment.
Also, 28 stells were compiled with the inscription "Golden Star of the Hero of the Soviet Union."
During the event, government representatives answered topical questions from representatives of the business sector of the republic.
According to the NPP, the creation of a platform for the provision of all services for the development of entrepreneurship in the village of Akmol will give impetus to this industry.
Despite the cold frosts, young football players aged 14 to 17 years showed a beautiful and interesting game.
A list of events held in anniversary time is being developed.
among them are quite strong chess players and drafts players.
Following the meeting, a memorandum on mutual cooperation between the Kaztalov and gendarme districts was signed.
now we teach them.
proposals were also made to support young poets, the department of internal policy of the region said.
The leadership of Kazakhstan was represented by the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic, Major General Muslim Altynbayev and Commander-in-Chief of the Air Mobile Forces of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General Daulet ospanov.
its purpose is to develop the skills necessary for the strict fulfillment of the assigned functional tasks.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan b.m. In accordance with Saparbayev's protocol order given at the meeting of the Republican tripartite commission on regulation of social partnership and social and labor relations of January 21, 2015, work is underway to sign memoranda between the akimat, employers and trade unions on issues of ensuring the production process, labor rights and stabilizing the employment of an employee in the region.
there is a side to the use of aircraft.
The head of state noted that local officials serve to improve the quality of life of rural residents. the president has always assigned the tasks to the local agencies to improve the lives of the villagers .
he himself led the people's freedom movement, and his son died near Moscow.
in accordance with the order and rules of construction, these parts belong to the 4-lane, i-th technical category.
the missing quantity of petroleum products was imported.
this indicates the responsibility of every citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since June, it is planned that the Kyzylorda-Antalya-Kyzylorda international charter flight will fly in 10 days.
in addition, a vegetable storage facility with a capacity of 2.4 thousand tons was commissioned.
this shows not only the high status of our country on the world stage, but also the constant manifestations and risks.
the reconstruction of the pedestrian bridge over the Ulba River in Ust-Kamenogorsk was completed, the project to save the zyryanov city from the threat of flooding continues.
the emergence of the juvenile system in Kazakhstan, including on juvenile issues, for the first time in the post-Soviet space was highly appreciated by international experts. the creation of a juvenile justice system , including the formation of juvenile courts , is evaluated as the progress of implementation of the recommendations of the un committee on the rights of the child by international experts .
Kazakhstan attached great importance to the work of the Eurasian Economic Union, which has great potential for trade and economic cooperation between our countries, and will be so.
the growth of exchange turnover of international trade, prices for raw materials differed significantly from their own.	primarily , this occurs due to the impossibility of centralized regulation of global markets .	0,62
The German politician praised the personal contribution of the President of Kazakhstan to ensuring interethnic harmony, economic achievements and improving the well-being of the people, emphasizing his initiatives aimed at ensuring global and regional security.	german politician emphasized his international initiatives aimed at ensuring regional and global security .	0,62
In addition, other objects, including foreign pavilions, will be free after the exhibition.	in this case , many other areas will be remained free after the exhibition , including pavilions of foreign countries .	0,62
the culmination of the festival was the composition of the poetess Albina Bayzakova, dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
The agreement between the Governor's Office of the capital and the Development Fund is aimed at lending to small and medium-sized businesses in areas that are not included in the list of priority industries for participation in existing state programs.
crisis and a way out of a situation where oil and gas prices are falling.
eliminating changes and burdens in difficult times is the main task of training personnel in the field of education and culture. but we have to develop and enrich our achievements .
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Youth Policy," aimed at ensuring the active participation of youth in public and public life, access to social infrastructure, increasing the responsibility of state bodies in the implementation of youth policy
Last December, the draft document was sent to three states, and now it is aimed at familiarization with Armenia.	over a year , the expert group has worked over the customs code development .	0,62
The head of state noted that the number of illegal inspections of business entities has decreased by 6 times and instructed to ensure further control over strict observance of the rights of entrepreneurs.	moreover the head of state outlined further strengthening of improve financial supervision over the funds allocated from the national fund to support the economy .	0,62
in conclusion, Margvelashvili wished the President of Kazakhstan success in all endeavors for the benefit of the people of Kazakhstan.	georgian president expressed the hope to the further strengthening of the kazakh-georgian .	0,62
veteran's health does not allow free movement.	the state of his health does not allow the veteran to move independently .	0,62
tools provided in the second direction include the provision of innovative grants, training of top managers of the enterprise in the areas of increasing productivity and energy efficiency, reimbursement of costs for technical standardization of labor, restoration of costs of the quality and safety system based on product certification and international standards.	the tools provided within the second mission consist of providing innovative grants , payment for training of top managers of the enterprises , compensation of expenses for technical rationing of work , compensation of part of expenses on certification of production and systems of quality management according to the international standards ( api , astm , gmp , en ) .	0,62
According to the ministry, the parties noted the high level of bilateral relations, interethnic and interethnic harmony in supporting the development of German culture.	according to the ministry , during the meeting the sides noted the high level of existing bilateral relations in the sphere of support of citizens of german nationality in kazakhstan , development of interethnic and intercultural cooperation , and also in the sphere of sport , education and youth policy .	0,62
the concert was held in an amphitheater organized on the territory of the tent camp.	the concert was organized on the territory of the campground amphitheater .	0,62
the introduction of a European competition system to replace outdated construction standards and rules applied since Soviet times.	49 . replacing old and obsolete construction standards and rules used since the soviet period with the eurocodes system .	0,62
during the conference there will be a book exhibition dedicated to the Kazakh Khanate, a graphic exhibition "nomads of Eurasia" by Rakhimzhan Kasymzhan and solemn gifts to the public association "Nogai eli," a concert program.
Special monuments will also be erected to the heroes of the Mangistau Soviet Union of Madi Begens, Zhumagali Kaldykaraev, Bilal Kaliev, full holder of the Order of Glory, Pavel Malaev, lazy order Isatai Sueubaev and Kartbay Bekzhanov.
it is fully possible to reach the assigned purpose.
Many participants of the event noted that such events are very useful in order to get more information about political and economic situations in Kazakhstan and decide on the arrival of Kazakhstani corporations.
The twenty-first century, in the era of globalization, we can safely articulate that comprehensively sound language policies are one of the main guarantees of our country's sustainable development.
Medvedev called the free trade zone agreement concluded between Eo and Vietnam a breakthrough agreement with a third party, so it is the first agreement.
great achievements in the development of Kazakhstan and the head of the republic especially noting the role of Nazarbayev, s. Rabbani expressed gratitude to the Government of Kazakhstan for humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, who are constantly in need.
The participants in the event intend to effectively confront the new threats arising from the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, the difficult geopolitical situation and the sanctions policy of the leading powers. Special attention was paid to the main aspects of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
technology of kumys casting is automated, all equipment works according to modern technologies.
It is worth noting that currently in the agriculture of the region there is not a single enterprise for the production of feed.
Within the framework of this memorandum, the trade union is instructed to carry out explanatory work to the collective of enterprises on measures taken by the enterprise administration and state bodies to stabilize the production process, to assist in taking measures to observe internal labor discipline of workers and prevent social and labor disputes.
The prerequisite for the construction of a new bakery was that the old bakeries and technologies launched in 1967 have not been modernized in recent decades.
Also, within the framework of the round table "Russian Economy in the General Economic Equilibrium Model," Advisor to the Macroeconomic Policy Department Olesya Polyakova made a report on the work done in the system for assessing the effectiveness of the eeao based on the general model of economic equilibrium.
and work to make the window of our state equal to others.
I.adyrbekov noted that Romania is the main partner of Kazakhstan in eastern Europe and the Balkans, and our country pays great attention to deepening dialogue in parliamentary cooperation.
Also, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev celebrated the 25th anniversary of the CIS.
This event was presented on the initiative of the Khan on February 14, 2015.
We meet on the eve of the March holiday.
the guys took shovels in their hands, cleared the courtyard of snow, and the girls, in turn, cleaned the houses.
Semipalatinsk youth, who supported the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, held a flash mob and expressed their civic position on the implementation of state youth policy.
Due to the expiration of the term of office, the composition of the council is updated by at least half.
In the Taldykorgan in the Palace of Culture named after I. Zhansugurov, the meeting participants were presented with a photo exhibition and an exhibition of craftsmen.
B. Saparbayev also stressed the importance of preserving the history of the country and educating future generations, urged the heads of museums and reserves to work for their own cause.
The meeting considered the conditions regarding the rate of competition for the transport of goods, the complex rate of organization and equipment of container trains on the Trans-Caspian international transport route.
The heir to the Abu Dhabi throne noted that the emirates support Kazakhstan's foreign policy initiatives and in January this year signed the charter of the Islamic organization for food security.
At the end of February, representatives of the South Ural region plan to visit the Akmola region.
this norm was introduced in accordance with amendments to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state registration of rights to immovable property."
According to him, the widest employment of the population is the main factor in ensuring stability in the region and remains one of the main tasks of the social sphere.
As for Aktobe region itself, this year there will be land changes.	as for aktobe region , it is planned to carry out structural reforming .	0,62
Nursultan Abishevich, thanks for the invitation to meet to analyze current events.
In the area of public procurement, there should be an equal order for member countries.
however, these requirements applied only to vehicles imported from third countries.
on the basis of this sample, a certificate of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected in the extraordinary elections of April 26 of this year, is made.
livestock is growing not every day, but with an hour.
all events of the republican level.
because his work is directly related to the processing of criminal or civil criminal cases.
On the occasion of the 20th anniversary of kha, a special anniversary gold medal was established, which will be awarded to 3 thousand participants in the assembly. a special gold medal has been established by this date - the 20th anniversary of the apk and 3,000 people , the participants of the assembly , will be awarded this medal , everyone will be congratulated .
bills are sent for consideration by the chamber.
According to him, this is a more universal, comprehensive set of measures than the millennium development plan, which will have targets and indicators.
International observers from Kazakhstan monitored the election with colleagues from the two countries, who also noted that the vote was open and legal.
In 2015, as a result of the construction and reconstruction of all buildings in the region, it is planned to open 1,500 new places in kindergartens of the regional center.
A tour of Kokshetau was also organized for all participants.
In these cases, an agreement was reached on taking measures in case of disagreement, "the report said.
The works of various nationalities and ethnic groups living on the Kazakh land of the XX-XXI centuries demonstrated the mastery of a deep sense of culture and art, linked traditional trends in fine art and contributed to the development of the domestic art school.
78,939 hectares of rice were harvested in the fall, the average yield was 50.1 centners per hectare.
silver is ionically converted into a solution.
the activities of our association serve for the constant modernization of the automotive market and the transport industry.
The commission conducts measures on material expenses.
As noted, the publication is dedicated to a wide range of readers interested in special humanities, experts, civil servants and inter-ethnic relations.
theater, museum, library contribute to popularizing the history of the Kazakh khanate.
A. Shaueev noted that the allocated funds will be directed to the implementation of projects aimed at supporting the study of the state language by the younger generation.
The Ambassador noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of relations with the Czech Republic in all spheres and considers the Czech Republic its key partner in central Europe.
today, the formal nature and objectives of peacekeeping required regulation. today , peacekeeping is a special mission , and of course a major task of the most important activities of kazakhstan 's army .
the new legislation provides for the removal of conditional sentences from breadwinners and the confiscation of property in the amount of money received.
This did not greatly affect the Kazakh market.
such connections are established at 9 thousand 741.
These reports discussed in detail the topic of state power under the Kazakh Khanate, the traditional law of Kazakhs with a dance court.
we signed an alliance agreement with you, within the framework of which many issues are being implemented.
today, in the conditions of the successful operation of the experimental complex for the production of gasoline and diesel fuel from coal, an investor was also found ready to invest in industrial production, "he explained.
it is also important to discuss the role and significance of the ideas of the "eternal country" and the society of universal labor on the platforms of this forum in the formation of a new value matrix of Kazakhstan society.
in the future, the number of wells will increase to 100.
war veterans are accompanied by medical workers.
currently transporting to the Caspian Sea.
And in May, 600 events are planned.
these are regional social service centers, social institutions in which 1000 people work.
subsequently, the applicant made errors when reading the poem mukagali makatayev "feeling" and did not answer the questions of the commission on the content of the poem read, "the conclusion says.
Along with increasing printing capacity, processing depths increase, the quality of petroleum products changes to Euro-4, Euro-5 standards, "said the deputy head of government.
members of the linguistic commission noted that modern criteria allow us to determine the level of knowledge of the applicant of the state language.
UNESCO Director General highly appreciated the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to organize a congress of religious leaders, noting its special relevance in the modern international context.
this is not just a word, and this is not just another appeal to the people.
summing up the meeting, social institutions are tasked with combating the violation of the rights of workers and providing maximum support for improving the quality of life of the population.
He also spoke about preparations for EXPO-2017, and also on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan received an invitation to take part in the exhibition in honor of the Korean present.
I believe that every citizen is obliged to participate in the elections.
this Kazakhstan is the root of history.
we did all this sincerely for you.
Kha is the main mission of further development of inter-ethnic harmony and peace in Kazakh society, "said K. Asylov.
Thanks to the help of the Richos Boron Hotel and the Noble Heritage Charitable Foundation, the intensive care and treatment departments of newborns will be equipped with sufficient modern equipment, and now all newborns that belong to 7 districts of the region will be able to receive the necessary assistance, "said Leyla Kultaeva, chief doctor of the regional perinatal center of Kyzylorda.
the construction of the third power unit of the Balkhash, the Ekibastuz harness-2, as well as the modernization of the Syr Darya sound and politeness will continue.
Today, everyone sees that the cinema of Kazakhstan has gone on an unprecedented rise, and the reputation of Kazakh cinema is becoming higher. today , everyone can see how kazakh cinema experienced unprecedented growth , how the glory of kazakh cinema is revived before our eyes .
The design capacity of the plant is 430 thousand tons of finished products per year, including 200 thousand tons of rails and 230 thousand tons of hook.
one of them is the image of a predator in a cat suit.
Competent cooperation bodies have been identified and attention has been paid to the form of cooperation between the parties to the agreement.
By the way, another important aspect that experts have shown is the role of the Russian language in modern conditions.
Within the framework of the risk management system, customs control is expected to be minimized by the Belarusian and Russian competent authorities in relation to certain categories of goods arriving through the territory of Russia and intended for domestic consumption in Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
This system already exists in the Mangistau region.
maintenance of the apartment, front door, kitchen furniture.
Then the peasants who took part in the meeting asked their questions.
The Speaker of the Lebanese Parliament highly appreciated the holding of the congress, the message of the President of Kazakhstan and the new economic policy.
Since 2016, large manufacturers can export pharmaceutical products to the EEA countries. major manufacturers are able to increase the export of pharmaceutical products .
The purpose of the event is to popularize the image of a positive family, strengthen the role of fathers in raising children, promote the institution of the family, and form active citizens in society on the basis of spiritual and moral values.
now we are working on the development of a new export strategy, a number of new mechanisms are being proposed.
Considering the statement of UNESCO, the 2200th anniversary of Shymkent will be recognized at the world level. unesco will consider the application and at the global level it will be recognized that shymkent city is 2,200 years old .
in our understanding, this is similar to the shape of an inverted pyramid, that is, such a view is incorrect.
In addition, according to the Chairman of the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan, the success of the Kazakh judicial system will be recognized by many international organizations and experts.
The meeting considered the main directions of Kazakh-Russian relations within the framework of wide cooperation.
In particular, more than 200 participants in the parade will plant 500 tree seedlings in the village of Ilyinka.
these are only the first attempts of the state to get on its feet.
the Chamber ratified the agreement of the member States of the Customs Union on the elimination of technical barriers in mutual trade with the States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States that are not member States of the Customs Union.
unlike existing payment methods, the online service has a significant advantage in the time of transferring money to a personal account. the online service has a significant advantage with the existing payment methods in rate credited to the personal account .
at the same time, he drew attention to the fact that the work of the current generation of Kazakhstanis occupies a special place in the history of the country. "
these tests are based on the common skills of public servants.
briefing with participation of the director of the department of affairs of culture and art of RK of the aktot of a raymkulov, the doctor of historical sciences, professors of a zeynoll of a samashev, the director of the Republican state enterprise Kazkosmos a rope tuyakbayev, the corresponding member NAN RK, Phil.ng, professor, institute of culture and culture of a name of m of the lake of an auezov. "Director of the RGK Valikhan Kalijanov, corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the so-called Professor" Director of the RGK "Institute of History and Ethnology named after Sr. Valikhanova. "
Competitions will be held this summer in the Caspian Sea.
winners were awarded diplomas and cash prizes.
there is a national plan for holding anniversary events.
two more dormitories are under construction.
and the development of transport logistics will increase the economy of the region.
guests of the festival were also presented with Kazakh national dishes.
The performance assessment of public authorities is carried out annually according to strategic plans.
I am grateful that young people on her initiative organize such kind events, "says the parent.
More than 90 contestants took part in the qualifying stage of the competition.
marital and family relations have a direct impact on fertility.
A. Mamytbekov noted that the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "a bright path - a path to the future" indicates a slowdown in the world economy, contributing to a decrease in budget revenues, a fall in commodity prices.
Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted the successful impact of social dynamics in the metropolis on the electoral activity of Almaty residents.
Today, the city authorities are considering the possibility of implementing joint projects with foreign investors within the industrial park.
Countries come to the presidential elections with children.
In 2014, total imports of glass products from foreign countries and CIS countries will increase 1.5 times in number and 3.75 times in price compared to 2013.
It is worth noting that the main goal of the exhibition is the disclosure of famous events and images of personalities in the history of the Kazakh Khanate, which played an important role in the formation of Kazakh statehood.
It is worth noting that 37 thousand people were summoned from the same Akmola region in the first six months of the war, and over the entire war - more than 80 thousand.
the main migration exchange in the country takes place with the CIS states.
New Year's gifts, good intentions and wishes of Santa Claus.
Following the results of the working trip, the State Secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Mr. Abdykalikova, gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies.
In addition, a comprehensive employment plan was approved in 2015 in the region, which will contribute to 7 thousand 38 unemployed and self-employed citizens.
We must all take part in its implementation.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan informed the participants of the event about the important achievements of the country, political and economic reforms carried out on the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, high pricing of leading international rating agencies for the economic development of the country, a favorable investment climate in Kazakhstan.
Also, on the eve of EXPO-2017, methods will be considered to increase the flow of tourists in the field of visiting and domestic tourism.
According to the Ministry, in addition to providing housing and providing free medical services, a soldier under a contract and his family members can use air, rail, water and road transport services for free when moving to another place, children are given an extraordinary place in kindergarten.
now information about the bills received at the meeting and their consideration is available to anyone, "the report said.
The mission also has a headquarters office.
Almazbek atambayev congratulated the head of state on a convincing victory, and this once again proves that the Kazakh people unquestionably recognize the work of Nursultan Nazarbayev as head of state, expressing high confidence in political and economic reforms aimed at the sustainable development of the country and strengthening its authority in the international arena.
From January 12 to June 1, 2015, officers undergoing military service in the military positions of commanders of battalions (divisions), units and their deputies, as well as officers with significant shortcomings in service and personal order, are held, the report said.
ii. Ensuring the rule of law
among them, the 29th Infantry Division received the title of Honorary Guards.
these are highly qualified professionals.
each of them has its own simulator.
two of them are planned to open with an increase.
the corresponding order was adopted.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan thanked the ambassadors for their contribution to the development of international relations.
Karaganda University sends its specialists to the plant for internship.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions to improve the activities of state financial control bodies.
From 2010 to 2014, 770 projects were put into operation with the creation of 75 permanent jobs.
In turn, experts agreed that the economic belt of the Silk Road is not only a transit transport corridor.
In this regard, the Governor's Office of Almaty region will improve skills and organize personnel in the transport and logistics sector.
N. Nadirov also noted that the early presidential elections are a historical necessity of the country.
Within the framework of the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory and the Year of Veterans of the Commonwealth Countries, the head of state, the supreme commander of the armed forces N.A., congratulated Nazarbayev on a historic event.
requests were sent to the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ministry of the Interior. with a servant.
During the meeting, the rector of the academy, Bolatbek Abdrasilov, spoke about the main directions and prospects of the academy's activities, emphasized the issues of training civil servants and the further development of bilateral cooperation in the research field.
During the visit to Kazakhstan, the spiritual Mr. Iranian President emphasized the importance of these trade and economic ties.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that our republic will continue to make every effort to resolve the situation in Ukraine.
in the event of dismissal from military service, except for those who have the right to privatization, "the statement said.
The sides will discuss bilateral trade and economic cooperation today.
During the grand opening of the holiday, the commander of the airborne assault brigade, Major General Diamond Zhumakeev, noted that such meetings play an important role for the current generation.
its main task is to ensure sustainable socio-economic development and protect the economy from external adverse conditions.
Based on the results of the discussion, additional measures will be introduced to the plan for supporting industrial enterprises submitted to the government for discussion.
According to VTsIOM, the mega-project is being carried out in the region for the second time and has given a great impetus to the development of inter-ethnic relations in the region.
In general, what and how many specialists do we prepare today, does this compensate for our needs?
this complex produces 2 thousand 200 tons of cucumbers and tomatoes per year.
In addition, the akimat commissioned housing with a total area of 19.28 thousand square meters for waiting lists. that is, forward, rice, cobda, iron, 8, 2 and 1-apartment rental residential buildings and a 216-apartment residential building in the city of Aktobe in the Wilsky and Khromtau districts were commissioned, 268 families were provided with comfortable housing.
Recall that last night, young people who heard the election results staged a rally.
The meeting participants also exchanged views on cooperation in the field of sports and physical education.
In general, at this event, children and older people were happy, enjoyed them, found new friends, made sure how talented they were, felt like members of society.
milk powder is cheaper than whole milk, and the cost of such products is reduced.
the majilisman of one of the main problems of each Kazakh family paid special attention to housing and social issues.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will raise and develop a patriotic spirit, will allow citizens to develop their history, will contribute to a deep understanding and assessment by Kazakhstanis of the importance of the values ​ ​ of statehood and sovereignty, "said G. Shnkeeva, head of the internal policy department of Akmola region.
In another letter from the region, the leaders of a number of ethnocultural centers gladly accepted the initiative to hold presidential elections and expressed their readiness to support the policy of peace, unity, harmony and stability.
in this regard, measures will be taken to optimize the republican budget, "he said.
a minute of silence honored the memory of courageous girls and grandfathers who did not return from the war.
the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the proposal of the Chairman of the Senate, appointed B. Meldeshov and Lysuleimen. to the position of a member of the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan for a period of five years.
Since the work of the chamber a little more than a year, however, branches have already been created in all areas.	krymbek kusherbayev told about the work on business support of the region .	0,63
that is, the main support tool will be guaranteeing, subsidizing and business consultations, "said A. Solovieva.
Today, the level of participation of Kazakhstanis in the presidential election can be regarded as a sensation - from a hardworking child to a sloping old lady, everyone with families, labor collectives in the morning to polling stations.
now our common interest is the preservation of unity, unity, friendship in a multinational country, "the Governor of the region said.
the will of a citizen who sees the future of his generation together with the sacred homeland of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said after the swearing-in ceremony.
As part of the action, organizers and partners organized a children's playground, where sharp elegance, medicines and medical honey, gifts were demonstrated.
rural hospital, administrative buildings.
a new generation electronic device is capable of seeing a terrestrial person, transmitting an image to an operator in real time.
37 of them from the CIS observer mission, 2 from the Shu observer mission, 4 from the Turkic-speaking cooperation council, as well as two observers from the Latvian republic, Romania and Ukraine, as well as one observer from the Estonian republic, the statement said.
a person should serve only in court, not to be confused with the posts of police, investigator, defender, "said the head of state.
The President of Turkey stressed that the spiritual heritage of Khoja Ahmed Yassaoui is of particular importance.
In particular, this is one of the significant events of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which was held as part of the solemn events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Also during the action, residents will be given advice on many issues.
topical issues of Kazakh-Russian cooperation and cooperation within the framework of Eurasian economic integration were also considered.
Governor of the region thanked the Apostolic Nuncio for arriving in the region and expressed confidence that the appointment of the new bishop of Caraganda Roman Catholic in Adelio del Oro will further increase the cooperation of the Catholic Church and state bodies.
as a result, plant capacity increased by 50%.
the signing of the agreement will contribute to the strengthening of the capabilities of each of the parties in the further development of the agro-industrial complex.
Given last year's difficulties, the farmers of the region began to prepare for an important campaign early.
so that you can learn, learn, improve and develop.	the country makes every effort for your education and training .	0,63
bbf rkb develops several directions of dance and style and is the only full representative of the trolley dance - the national Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan	 fmsd " develops many dance genres and styles and is the only full-fledged representative of the national paralympic committee of kazakhstan on sport - dancing in wheelchairs .
every ninth male is tall and every fifth has a secondary special education.
the opinions of the parties agreed that no one would ever forget anything.
On behalf of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the deputy chief of the general staff, the head of the department for educational and ideological work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel Muhammadjan Talas, presented the veteran with a letter and valuable gifts.
representatives of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs addressed representatives of the Karaganda State Industrial University and exchanged views on training issues.
In general, books will certainly be amazing for librarians.
The head of the region, who took part in the reporting meeting, instructed in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State to complete the construction of the social facilities begun in a quality and timely manner.
among them are professional journalists.
they repaired and cleaned houses, blessed the elders.
The head of state also noted that human independence and independence of the country are carried out only through labor.
The first deputy head of the Uzbek government r.aazimov highly appreciated the possibility of holding EXPO-2017 and stated that Uzbekistan will support the organization of this event.
Major Bauyrzhan Orazbay, senior officer of the Main Directorate of Combat Training for Physical Training and Sports: "Our task is to develop army sports more and involve our troops in curious sports.
According to y. shakhshayev, the national action in support of veterans of the Second World War recalled the traditions of our ancestors and noted the nobility of respect for the elder.
my last visit to your country in September 2013 made sure that there are opportunities to strengthen our strategic relations, as well as Kazakhstan's responsibility on the world stage, Spain supports this, "the telegram says.
Cadet leaders are appointed experienced officers.
The sides discussed in detail the current state and prospects of inter-university cooperation, which is one of the priorities of the Kazakh-French strategic partnership.
Today, the country has all the opportunities for active and committed youth, "the head of state said.
Improving national legislation on safe navigation and navigation services for ships.
experience of personal appeal to every citizen.
We want to make a wonderful gift to all Kazakhstanis on Victory Day, "our team said.
in addition, the reporting documents are completed by the average medical personnel.
When adjusting some programs, the funds necessary for the resumption of production are allocated, "said the director of the investment planning department of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP Marat Kosybayev.
observers also got acquainted with the work of the Akmola regional election commission and visited a number of precinct commissions.
bach expressed confidence in strengthening partnership with Kazakhstan, which is a right-wing member of the Olympic movement.
The deputy commander of the troops of the Southern Regional Command, Colonel Dulat Adyrbekov congratulated the military on an important historical event related to the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
As the head of the national company noted, the domestic market should be provided with low prices for oil products.
The launch of construction will avoid water scarcity for irrigation of agricultural land of New Zealand and Shieli districts of Kyzylorda region in low-water years.
the main feature of this activity is that through it you can contact any city number on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and without any restrictions within the altel connection itself, and if desired, citizens can use it as an Internet network.
Congratulating on the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, the Ambassador of the Republic of Belarus Anatoly Nikkasov noted that the unity of representatives of all nationalities who managed to tear their hand out of one bank in opposing the fascist invaders can undermine the Hitler army.
Currently, the bill is being considered by an interdepartmental commission between the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
aa. Kazykhanov noted that Kazakhstan pays special attention to close work with British higher and secondary educational institutions in order to train professional personnel, teach English, attract best practices and innovative technologies in the field of education.
in addition, it is planned to develop the route network of airlines in the regions and increase domestic and international flights
as well as the campaign held today in Kazakhstan, "agitation, awareness-raising work is being carried out among residents of cities and regions.
From 2010 to 2014, 770 projects were put into operation with the creation of 75 permanent jobs.
In the spring of 2014, the award of the deceased Oltash Seitov was awarded to the great talgat Seitov.
firstly, the growth rate of gross domestic product in the main economies of the world has decreased, the situation in the secondary commodity and financial markets has worsened, "he said.
in these sessions, special attention will be paid to the conduct of "silent wars."
this is the first project.
Specifies the forms by which this process should be legalized.
Kazakhstan Pipe Plant LLP, which presented the drawings
the number of scientists is growing.
the state of military discipline and combat readiness in formations and units, the quality of military exercises directly depends on the level of professional training of these commanders.
sanctions and orphanages for each part of the country, military mentors and veterans of the Soviet military war.
it was now necessary to take concrete decisions to improve the environmental situation in the country and to keep citizens informed of threats in that area.
the use of the results of intellectual and creative work by a third party is used not only with the consent of the owner, but also in other cases provided for by law.
As part of the project, last year special groups conducted a study of the life of 5 thousand veterans of the Second World War.	this year the party schedules a number of events on occasion of the 70th anniversary of the great patriotic war .	0,63
widespread use of modern information technologies in the election campaign increased the political culture and civic activity of Kazakhstanis, which, in turn, influenced the level of voter turnout.	the widespread use of modern information technology in the presidential election significantly influenced and increased political culture and civil activity of kazakhstani people , which is reflected at the level of electoral turnout .	0,63
He gratefully accepted the invitation to the work of the congress and expressed his readiness to take part in its work.	mokhtar gomaa gratefully accepted the invitation to the v congress and confirmed his participation in the work of the congress .	0,63
Order "Aybyn" 2nd degree "Head of the Department of Combat Training of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel x. Ilyasov and Head of the Military Engineering Institute of Radio Electronics and Communications Colonel K. Sadykov.
in general, the event showed the steady interest of Austrian companies in Kazakhstan and the growing importance of Austrian-Kazakh society as a platform for the development of trade and economic relations between the two countries.
creative teams of other institutions attracted colleagues to participate in musical compositions, "the report said.
22,277 objects worth 146.7 billion tenge were legalized.
this forms the issue of individual tax receipt.
also remains the guardian of the family.
funds under this program are provided for the purchase of breeding bulls for the production of mother stock and young meat breeds, the repair and purchase of fixed assets and replenishment of working capital.
a person's desire to go to the theater arises only with a quiet life and stable earnings.
According to international and Kazakh experts and observers, participation in the elections at such a record level will go down in the history of the world election process.
They also discussed the introduction of a course of state regulation to regulate services and prices in the territory of the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In turn, the sector program of anti-corruption of Kazakhstan for 2011-2015 has made it possible to change the way of organizing work on anti-corruption. in turn , the program on combating corruption 2011-2015 has contributed to a change in approach to the organization of anti-corruption .
gold mining enterprises produced 10.8 tons of gold.
Western Europe has developed its democracy for hundreds of years.
the inhabitants of these settlements returned home.
on this day, the listener gets acquainted with the work of French composers.
however, it is mandatory to take into account the climatic conditions of the city of the capital and other features of the city.
According to the department, in the village of Aganas, Tselinograd district, the transportation of the population and the delivery of food continue.
young inventors also saw high heights.
In his speech, Mukhamejan Talasov noted that this year is saturated with socio-political events.
According to him, there is a full basis for the Aktobe region to be considered an investment attractive zone.
Kazakhstanis can register rights and encumbrances on immovable property when issuing title documents with a notary. from now on , kazakhstan citizens will be able to get title and encumbrances to real estate registered during formalization of title documents by notary .
Today we were one of the first to set the task of closing the central market and building a modern shopping center in its place.
During the conversation, the rector noted the value of seminars conducted by experts of leading specialists of the German country for top managers in the field of public administration of Kazakhstan on the topics of personnel management, effective technologies for managing administrative-territorial units (for corps a), preventing corruption, interaction between society and the media.
in addition, sagintayev stressed that without taking into account large projects, most of Kazakhstan's oil fields have passed the oil production line.
The head of state proposed to reduce the country's budget by 700 billion tenge. we were glad to hear that the president instructed to add the program " nurly zhol " with new anti-crisis measures .
Currently, five institutional reforms announced by the President of Kazakhstan in March of this year will become an important area of ​ ​ state policy, the head of state announced on April 27 during a press conference in Akorda.
We aim to create a diversified energy market in the country that is resilient to market change and environmentally friendly. our goal is to form diversified energy market , resistant to market fluctuations and friendly to the environment .
funds are allocated through the support of certain sectors of support for the manufacturing industry - kdb, which are allocated for the production of specialized equipment of domestic manufacturers through secondary ban, car lending and cadb leasing. as for the individual manufacturing industries - the dbk allocates funds under various schemes , through second-tier banks for auto loans and leases for the production of specialized machinery .
Social and economic reforms under the chairmanship of the head of State ensure peace and harmony and stability in the country.
In order to inform the public about the legalization, a speech by members of the commission was organized, the necessary materials were posted on the official website of the akimat of Aktobe.
This makes it possible to be headphones of global problems and participate in their solution, "the deputy said.
therefore, entrusting colleges with enterprise management is the optimal way to solve the issue of training qualified specialists both in logic and in the experience of other countries, "he said.
today, more than half of the industrial market is covered by its own production, starting from zero and ending with 20%. it is worth to mark , that there is a high level of self-sufficiency noticed .
The head of the region also instructed to accelerate the development of fields and one hundred percent fulfill the oil production plan using innovative methods in production.
In addition, by the end of the year it is planned to build 2 kindergartens in the cities of zhezkazgan and balkhash, and in Karaganda - a new kindergarten as part of the "Nұrly zhol" program.
popular elections are the most important political event reflected in our constitution, a special law.
in his opinion, a person should have a passion for life, the desire to live, to benefit society and the state - the main keys to success.
The purpose of the seminar is to improve the process of clarifying and monitoring the mission and the task of sbrkk.
we will be "the link between east and west, which will form an integral and important part of the world economy, using the geographical conditions of integration and developing transport and logistics infrastructure."
The results of the monitoring carried out by the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan indicate compliance with the requirements of the country's electoral legislation on ensuring equal access for presidential candidates. "
global global problems negatively affect the development of the country's economy. global challenges conquered world economy , of course , have a negative impact on the kazakhstan 's economic development
The Secretary of State, having instructed the deputy akims of the regions to ensure the implementation of presidential initiatives to support veterans of the Great Patriotic War as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, noted the merits of war veterans, women front-line soldiers, workers in the rear.
As a result of the work on the dictionary, the current base of terms was systematized, systemic relations between terms and work with new terms were established, the press service of RSU "Public Consent" reports.
I see specific work, but I do not exclude that there are unresolved problems, "said the Governor of the region.
Veterans, whose joys at one time became a model of courage and courage, celebrate their birthday healthy.
M. Demeuov also noted that control over road safety was ensured, checking the technical condition of cars allocated for servicing election commissions.
N. Abykayev reported to the head of state on the current activities of the department and the main tasks of its work for the upcoming period.
The head of state also held a meeting with the labor collective of Kazzinc LLP, in which more than 7 thousand metallurgists of the city with growth, as well as employees of the metallurgical plant in Temirtau, Karaganda region and the aluminum plant in Pavlodar, took part in the teleconference.
history and historical consciousness reflect not only the attitude to the past, but also the state and future of the nation during this period. the history , historical consciousness represents flash back , and also the future of the nation .
women are a regular of our hearth, the guardian of the Motherland, the owner of the golden cradle, the future of the country.	nursultan nazarbayev noted nine million live in the country to date .	0,63
At the end of the year, all funds were used.	at year-end , the total mastering was 100 % .	0,63
now Karis are also interested in joint actions.	we need to produce high-quality products .	0,63
these two projects are aimed at implementing the instructions of the Governor of Almaty on the integrated development of passenger transportation, preventing the human factor in paying for travel and ensuring the safety of passengers.	both projects are designed to implement the orders of the mayor for integrated development of passenger traffic , to eliminate the human factor in the payment process and to provide passenger security .	0,63
they may contain photographs of those killed at the front or those killed after the war years and still living veterans.
According to the representative of the agency, a working group is currently being created in the country under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, which includes representatives of ministries and key companies of the quasi-public sector operating with the state participation of holdings and joint-stock companies.
Free movement and individual movement are also provided, "the conclusion of the committee on science and socio-cultural development says.
proposals received on the draft law were discussed at seven meetings of the working group with the participation of representatives of interested ministries and departments, as well as a number of non-governmental organizations and at two expanded meetings of the finance and budget committee, more than 100 proposals were taken into account.
In addition, the head of the region noted the convenience of the southern region of the country to attract investment, called on Italian entrepreneurs to work together and noted that he would take all measures to promote any bilateral effective project, as well as take part in the Milan exhibition of South Kazakhstan entrepreneurs.
The condition for the further sustainable development of the country is the preservation of internal stability and civil peace, interethnic harmony, "concluded A. Beissenbaev.
In turn, r.eltisarov thanked the Consul General for the initiative and noted that the planned events will be organized at a high level.
in addition, work is underway to introduce more local content (the sale of local goods and services) into large projects of the national level.
that is, a list of skills, abilities and qualities necessary for public service is compiled.
Among those who are represented in the orders are representatives of various organizations, all of which unite their contribution to the peaceful development of Kazakhstan. all those who are awarded today are united by an enormous contribution to the development of a peaceful prosperous kazakhstan .
it is also planned to implement a number of projects in the field of milk processing, deep processing of grain crops, "the minister said.
As of March 1, 2015, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 355,808 units and increased by 4% compared to the same period last year, including 346,891 units with less than 100 employees.
During the meeting, a member of the group - N. Kazmanov explained the main and priority areas of the Address of the Head of State, and the head of the group - L. Azbaeva reported on the work on the implementation of the tasks set by the Head of State.
this is preparation for the upcoming summer season.
According to its results, 152 projects with a loan portfolio of 8,801.0 million tenge were approved.
In addition, he focused on the presentation of the regional center for this day and noted that first of all it is necessary to pay attention to the improvement of the city, "the press service of the akim of the region reports.
For the first time, a document published in Russian will be an important report to discuss the further development of the information society and the UN e-government.	key components of this review consist of two parts : the open government data , its integration , digitization , mobile technology , social media ,  - he said .
a survey was conducted to study the public assessment of the activities of specialized inter-district economic courts of small, medium and large business entities participating in trials.
Insufficient income relates to the underutilization of guaranteed transfers from the national fund relative to the adequacy of funds in the national budget.
for the first time we produce hydrogen oxide and synthetic material based on propylene. for the first time we will launch the production of hydrogen peroxide and synthetic materials based on the propylene .
per capita of the region produced 511 kg of cereals, 216 kg of oil seeds, 329 kg of potatoes, 227 kg of vegetables and melons.
You know that in our country a lot of attention has been paid to youth, since the first days of our country's independence, our country has been pursuing a policy of supporting youth. you know that our country pays great attention to young people , the president of our country nursultan nazarbayev supports young people .
In the process of training the flight personnel of the unit, patriotic education plays an important role, aviators noted.
Before the start of this event, the heads of delegation of the participating states received President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
More than 1000 teachers-psychologists will work with parents of students of 11 grades of districts and villages.
Admission to all presentations is free.
today has passed the procedure for determining proficiency in the state language. today , presidential candidate kusainov abilgazy has passed the exam successfully .
Members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Kostanay region sincerely congratulate N.A. Nazarbayev.	members of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan of kostanay region sincerely congratulated nursultan nazarbayev on convincing victory in the last elections .	0,64
The President of the Senate met with the head of the delegation of the People's Assembly of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Mohammad Saleh Seljuk.	according to the press service of the senate , mr. tokayev has met with head of the delegation of the assembly of volis jirga of afghanistan mohammad saleh seljuks .	0,64
vaccination affects the formation of artificial immunity.	vaccination contributes to the development of artificial immunity .	0,64
The conference was attended by Deputy Chairman of the Senate of the Romanian Parliament, Chairman of the Committee on Energy Florin Constantinescu, Chairman of the Senate on Romanian Diaspora issues abroad marchel-dumitru buzhor, head of the joint parliamentary group "Romania-Kazakhstan," church of a member of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as politicians, state bodies, diplomatic corps, scientists and representatives of the business community.
The National Operator in the Field of Television and Radio Broadcasting Kazakhteleradio JSC has completed the modernization of the Capital radio broadcasting and television station aimed at improving radio broadcasting in the capital of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
for example, introduced a new method of irrigation, the result is not bad.
Any citizen who is in Kazakhstan or abroad, if necessary, will be able to get information about our documents on our website, "said the director of the archive.
he shocked everyone who competed.
Previously, this place was established in the village of Blagoveshchenka, Zhambyl district and in the Soviet district of Magzhan Zhumabaev.
given the above, we ask you to support the bill on ratification of the protocol proposed for your consideration, "he said.
In total, 12 rifle divisions, 7 rifle brigades, 4 horse divisions and regiments, as well as more than 50 regiments and battalions of various purposes were created.
The court session showed the potential for further development and deepening of mutually beneficial ties.
work will continue on providing housing for WWII veterans in cities and districts of Almaty region.
when the elections began, two senior old men took the khan in their hands and put him on the throne.
All comments and proposals of Majilis deputies, standing committees and legislative departments were also considered and discussed.
The briefing will be attended by the director of the National Center for the Formation of a Healthy Lifestyle of Zhamil Battakov, m.g., director of the Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology and Radiology, chief doctor of the city oncologic dispensary mukhtar tuleutayev.
The Association of Students of Kazakhstan in Germany and representatives of Kazakh student associations in Moscow and St. Petersburg unanimously agreed on the need for a single information field regardless of distance.
According to Shukeyev, joint measures of support of Astana city akimat and "samruk-kazyn" on development of professional sports should contribute to achievement of bright victories by Kazakhstan athletes at international competitions in the future.
Despite the fact that young people went through life, his wife assisted the baseball and packed the house, the report said.
The regional festival is supported by the regional secretariat of kha, the leadership of the city and district and the Karaganda humanitarian college.
the introduction of the hassle system at the enterprise, which is one of the alternative forms of verification, will avoid inspections in a special order at the enterprise, "the report said.
the cars of the group meet all the requirements and standards for branded trains.
landscaping of the district.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat expressed a request for the imminent accession of Brunei to the Islamic organization for food security (akiu), created within the framework of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (IPU) on the initiative of Kazakhstan.
measures to further develop the state apparatus will strengthen its effectiveness and combat corruption.
in addition, world-class production structures were carried out using membrane technologies.
The meeting participants reviewed the implementation of the decisions of the 61st meeting of the council, the results of the operation of railway lines last year, the state of passenger transportation of the international route and the results of the first quarter of this year.
before diving, personnel pass swimming standards with uniforms and standard weapons.
The public organization "League of Consumers of Kazakhstan" is also a member of this commission, since it is necessary to take into account the opinion of consumers of goods, "said N. Altaev.
According to the Ministry of Defense, for citizens aged 22 to 27 years who, for some reason, have not previously completed military service, this can become a good equivalent of military service.
if there are errors in teaching methods, then today there is no such problem.
In 2015, it is planned to increase the number of livestock to 3,000 heads.
in particular, the increase in the number of personnel (recruitment of qualified and responsible medical workers), the organization of effective activities of helplines; in the departments of registration and reception of telephone numbers of medical organizations, health departments and regional call-centers, in doctors' offices and in other places of patients' seats.
we can say that our women round up any business and various professions.
at the same time, he noted that Kazakhmys occupies the largest share among purchases of backbone enterprises.
It is necessary to strengthen work in all directions when fulfilling the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.	in accordance with the presidential instructions it is necessary to intensify efforts in all areas .	0,64
During the meeting with the head of the federal tax service, Mikhail Mishustin informed Kazakhstani parliamentarians about the main priorities of the Russian tax service.	also , the head of the federal tax service mikhail mishustin told about the basic principles and activities of the tax service of russia .	0,64
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens on subsequent trips of mobilization groups.	pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens .	0,64
Also, a member of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan emphasized the need to increase the effectiveness of cooperation and ensure strict compliance by all participants in the electoral process with the norms of electoral legislation.	also the member of the cec stressed the necessity to ensure strict compliance with the electoral legislation and improve the efficiency of interaction between all participants in the electoral process .	0,64
the company produces two different photovoltaic modules, the power of a solar power plant is also at different levels.	the plant manufactures various goods from solar modules of two types to final solar stations of different of varying capacity .	0,64
in Petropavlovsk, the relevant memoranda include: the Kirov plant "white," "pztm" white, "kazexport holding" white, "sevkazenergo" white and others.
in particular, the "best sports construction" incentive awards were awarded (the winner of the award is the Daulet sports plant), the "best team of the year" (the ball hockey team), as well as a number of other athletes, coaches and organizations.
The Embassy of Kazakhstan presented a photo exhibition of Kazakhstani heroes: guards of the 28th Panfilov Division, fighters of the 101st Kazakh National Rifle Brigade, fighters of the Soviet Union aliyah Moldagul and Manshuk Mametova, as well as photographs of the contribution of Kazakhstani labor to the victory over fascism.
The competition also involves improving the infrastructure and organization of research activities in educational organizations, "the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region reported.
previously it was difficult to close the enterprise.
they performed tasks in difficult conditions, using engineering weapons in various ways in accordance with standard goals.
Within the framework of the challenges of the 21st century, we propose to begin the development of a fundamentally new treaty alternative to the Helsinki Act, adopted in 1975.
This event is a large-scale information project for young entrepreneurs, which presents a wide range of knowledge, communication and open information.
Chairman of the Committee on Religious Affairs of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, scientist Chugkin expressed the opinion of the Kazakh side.
these visits are organized to increase Kazakhstan's popularity in the international arena, attract investors and tourists, as well as inform the general public about the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Kazakhstan.
In general, the competition involves the unification of Turkic-speaking countries with the definition of talented youth in all regions of the country.
In places of residence of citizens located in rest houses, sanatoriums, inpatient medical and preventive institutions, remote and inaccessible areas, in cattle breeding sites, in pre-trial and temporary detention facilities, citizens who are in these institutions and organizations or on board the ship on the day of voting, on the day of voting in polling stations created on ships sailing, considering the Republic of Kazakhstan.
dark oak with deep roots, cascade hurricane. "
According to the Governor's office, 6977 cubic meters of gas units worth 82.6 million tenge were produced in 6 months.
From 2010 to 2014, 770 projects were put into operation with the creation of 75 permanent jobs.
At the same time, the number of online payments among the population is growing every year.
I sincerely congratulate you on the day of the great victory and Defender of the Fatherland Day!
the flight commander built us on the alarm of war, corrected the system, and then transmitted a joyful message.
the portal has already carried out work on writing to the relevant branch in order to obtain the necessary information.
today, despite the deep location of the center of the Eurasian mainland and lack of access to the sea, Kazakhstan aims to revive the historical significance of land routes through this region.
at the same time, he noted that kaznex invest attracts investments on the basis of an international principle, that is, various interstate relations and programs implemented with other states.
In addition, in accordance with the instructions of the head of the region, a call center for citizens and a special site have been opened.
we go beyond our phonetics.
as you know, he went to Minsk and then to Moscow.
We are obliged to provide support to people who experience panic in their souls and hearts, "the report said.
the best team will not only receive the title of the best platoon of combat readiness and training of the airmobile troops of Kazakhstan, but will also receive a ticket to the national team of the Kazakh army for the competitions in international landing biathlon, which will be held this summer.
we have now issued a new order and repealed the previous one limiting the number of certificates.
During the event, heads of youth organizations, director of the center for work with youth in the city of Karaganda spoke.
since then, more than half a century has passed, a new generation has appeared.
In order to improve the environmental situation in the Aral Sea, saxaul was planted on an area of ​ ​ 10.6 thousand hectares.
During the discussion, special attention was paid to the issues of technological, material and technical development of the agro-industrial complex of the region.
In conclusion, the participants concluded that in order for the representatives of different ethnic groups living in Kazakhstan to feel comfortable, it is necessary to maintain and promote multinational and multinational.
March is a common holiday, one of our favorite holidays.
As the Minister noted, today in the republic there are 205 agreements on natural raw materials and control.
According to the authors, the book informs every citizen who read it about the exceptional moments of the events of the Great Patriotic War and those cases that they had not heard or known about before.
talented young poets who grew out of the black word are growing up in the region, and they need the support of adults with extensive work experience, the report said.
and the purpose of resale after the import of transport is indirect taxes.
the celebration of the poet's birthday on this day has become a good annual tradition. zhambyl zhabayev - the most famous kazakh poet-improviser in the history of kazakhstan .
According to the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Senate and the Majilis can nominate two candidates.
it will be a curse.
March is not only a celebration of the awakening of nature, but also a sign of solidarity and unity.
According to representatives of the department, in the regions of the country, with the help of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense and local executive bodies, emergency rescue and preventive, restoration work is underway.
The President of Kazakhstan congratulated the gentle female community of the country on the upcoming holiday, noting that our people have always respected the female essence.
The competition program includes competitions among men, women, boys, girls, children, pensioners and people with disabilities.
earthen stones will also be replaced, work has begun on the removal of old ones.
the situation of countries and peoples was deteriorating.
Recall that the pharmaceutical company "conson & conson" is the largest world-famous corporation.
in the near future the plant will be covered by orders.
the share of megacities increased by 42.3%.
It is worth noting that the social sphere in this regard is not neglected.
Ks was also created in cities such as Kyzylorda and Semipalatinsk, where some rural residents often visit.
It is noted that the spring sowing will be sown on an area of ​ ​ 4 million 700 thousand hectares.
11,861 thousand tenge for the care of children or for the care of children transferred to foster carers.
Along with the keys to housing, the spouses of veterans were awarded valuable household appliances.
once the proposed action plan has been approved, all will be actively involved in its implementation. after the approval of the proposed plans i believe that everybody will actively begin to implement them .
Nұrly zhol - the way to the future "is assessed as a direction that will lead our country to the number of 30 developed countries in the world.
in particular, the Ekibastuz Coal Hero LLP says that under the leadership of the Head of State, thousands of labor collectives of Kazakhstan have firmly secured their place in the elite of the world community.
however, printed propaganda materials that have long been located outside the premises of election commissions and voting premises can be left in these places.
The purpose of this process is to analyze the financial condition of the enterprise, ensuring the integrity of the plant's property.
also to eliminate the imbalance of the share of areas in gross product, the receipt of taxes produced in the region.
During the opening of the substation, akim of the city Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that this object is important not only for the Turksian region, but also for the metropolis as a whole.
military personnel receive tactical training.
It was on behalf of the akim of the region that diplomas and a cash prize in the amount of 500 thousand tenge were awarded to sports institutions recognized as the best in 2014.
It is worth noting that on the territory of the Altynsarinsky district there are 94.4 km of gas pipelines from the villages of obagan, silantyevka, small churakovka and sherbakova.
the best examples of creativity will eventually become the spiritual heritage of the people.
We plan to conduct a number of telephone interviews among the population together with the information portal zakon.kz. we launch a series of telephone interviews with the population together with the information portal zakon.kz.
I know that March is a bright holiday filled with moral qualities, these are your new years.
Also, on the basis of UNESCO headquarters, a solemn celebration of the 200th anniversary of the book on cocuta will be held.
for example, I have a theme regarding Jews in the picture written in Hebrew.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War from Karaganda became famous here, they were paid tribute on behalf of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and on behalf of approved military units.
The jury included teachers of the Kazakh State University named after Sh. Ualikhanov, specialists of the regional education department, employees of the museum named after M. Gudulin and correspondents of the Azhary newspaper.
From April 22 to 26, personnel work in an enhanced mode to quickly respond to any violations at polling stations, "said M. Demeuov.
bear abdubait restores and reconstructs the clothes and life of the centuries that remained in the bowels of history.
In turn, P. Poroshenko expressed sincere gratitude to Nursultan Nazarbayev for his disrespectful position towards Ukraine.
we are all convinced that we will rally around you, the leader of the nation, so that our homeland develops dynamically.
famous Kazakh singer B. Tulegenova and the Tattimbet Academic Orchestra performed their works in the repertoire in the concert hall of Anadol University.
therefore, we constantly improve and train employees.
The main audience of the Internet project is youth seeking to learn the history of our state, "the report said.
The head of the department also noted that this year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan together with the Union of Journalists announced a competition for the best material about the homeland among foreign journalists.
in general, the representatives of the Shu observer mission made no comments on the voting.
On holidays, the monument will be restored.
Central European countries are regarded as the driving force of the European economy, and Kazakhstan is known as a leader country in the region, so there is growth potential, "he said.
The provision of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is a central part of the fight against crime and offers great opportunities for increased cooperation.
the Ulan region is part of the food belt of eastern Kazakhstan, provides the region with agricultural products.
In addition, privatization of communal property will be more actively carried out as part of business support.
By the way, the Canadian province of Manitoba on climatic conditions is similar to the North Kazakhstan.
he took first place, ahead of the enemy, recruited from the military units of his regional command.
participated in the Battle of Stalingrad.
poultry production in Kazakhstan is one of the most developed sectors of animal husbandry.
visitors to the museum of the great poet and thinker of the Kazakh people will be able to walk in the exhibition halls, in terms of exhibits and the history of Kazakh literature, without leaving home, the Ministry of Culture and Sports said.
Powers of the local police service: issues of public order, countering domestic crime, road control activities, intolerance of petty offenses.
Voting for the competition takes place online.
this is a kind of roadmap of the state to improve the quality of life of every Kazakhstani.
in the youth center there is a district library, a youth resource center.
the state should have strong weapons, be good with neighbors, find friends.
prizes will also be awarded to winners on their behalf.
299 million tenge was spent on overhaul of six objects of the Department of Internal Affairs, buildings for special forces "arlan" were purchased for 128.0 million tenge, 104 units of official transport, 20 video surveillance systems.
a veteran of World War II was at the front for many years, defended his homeland until Victory Day.
The memorandum was signed by the chairman of the board of directors of eren enerji Ahmet eren and the chairman of the board of sembol Fettah, and from the "mining" side - by the chairman of the board of majit turmagambets.
Today, the main product comes from China, is loaded into eastern ports and delivered to Russia within 45-60 days, "said K. Alpysbayev.
The Heritage Public Council for the Development of Culture and Art was established in 2010.
of which 520 Kazakhstanis became heroes of the Soviet Union.
The list of voters in 65 polling stations of Kazakhstan located abroad totals 20 thousand 822 citizens.
One of the systemic mechanisms is the creation of a state energy register, consisting of more than 7 thousand entities, to which requirements are presented aimed at improving energy efficiency, "said the chairman of the committee.
at the same time, 98.7% of judicial acts issued are considered legal and justified.
then, under the program of the meeting, teams from neighboring areas held a friendly futsal meeting.
We replaced obsolete equipment with new and high-quality equipment, increased the salary of canteen workers.
According to the speaker, currently 550 courtrooms of the country are equipped with a modern audio-visual system, 176 are updated with software.
automated monitoring and management of the main systems ensuring the operation of the building and its infrastructure.
then he explained his participation in the elections by the fact that the electoral process is an opportunity to raise topical issues of society and attract the attention of every Kazakhstani to it.
Director of the ice palace "torch" in the city of Astana nurov is recognized as "the best specialist in the field of physical education and sports."
Finn kidland and will gave a cognitive lecture and answered questions from the audience.
gala concert is an international creative platform.
The volume of construction work in the region increased by 35.1% and amounted to 12.5 billion tenge.	it made 2 989,5 thousand tons ,  she reported .
As the deputy of the lower house of parliament noted, in order to support the low-income segments of the population, work will continue to provide targeted assistance to low-income families and support on housing issues.
This means that through this type of contribution, people will be able to reduce the cost of education, the press service reports.
the archive described the life and state of the akmola region during the War years.
1,526 unemployed are sent to community service.
The strongest athletes of the region took part in it, the Governor's Office of Mangistau region reported.
we are very responsible for this event, on the eve of EXPO-2017, I, as the head of the center, increased the volume of proficiency in foreign languages ​ ​ by three times.
the old man thanked the local authorities for their good wishes.
employment of unemployed citizens in the social sphere, assistance to socially vulnerable segments of the population.
in coastal villages, such small workshops freeze fish and send them to factories.
The Austrian guest also supported bilateral relations and emphasized the need to develop it not only through diplomatic relations with the government, but also within the framework of the parliament.
The creation of a new code of ethics for judges, on the basis of which citizens will be able to appeal against the actions of judges to a special judicial board established under the Supreme Court of the country.
every year, the number of employees of various industries who seek to master the Kazakh language is growing.
According to the press service of the Majilis, the meeting decided to hold a meeting. the invaluable scientific contribution of Bekmakhanov to the development of the history of Kazakhstan, the development and study of the history of Kazakhstan from the White Way democratic party named after al-Farabi, as well as the importance of the two sides in studying the distance from the Kazakh khanate to the present.
it took 4 months, this is a job that requires a lot of work.
the purpose of the project is the introduction of modern technologies in machine-building production, the introduction of a dual system of training in higher education, training specialists in working with innovative equipment (sbb machines), increasing labor productivity by improving the skills of engineering and workers, the production of high-tech products that contribute to the growth of Kazakhstan's composition.
emergency schools not only negatively affect the quality of education, but also to some extent pose a threat.
According to him, in the next 5 years Kazakhstan should implement at least 3 thousand 270 energy conservation plans.
13.7 billion tenge will be spent on providing the needs of preschool educational institutions.
In their letter, the authors spoke about the positive results achieved in the region in the past year.
these are fodder production projects, a dairy farm, a poultry farm and a wool processing workshop, "the Governor's Office reported.
Since then, many museums have been conducting it, "he said.
The calculation of the value of each indicator of the final result of activities and the actual amount of activities of zinc organizations is calculated automatically on the www.skpn.eisz.kz portal and provides transparency in the formation of incentive payments.
we are glad to show Kazakhstan to the whole world, "he said.
today in the region more than 270 thousand subscribers, 660 industrial enterprises and about 6 thousand utility enterprises.
At the same time, the election results showed that the people unconditionally trust the head of state, "he said.
In addition, the President launched the action "Made in Kazakhstan" in order to ensure the availability of Kazakh goods in all retail chains of the country and instructed the akims to closely monitor work in this direction.
To date, 64% of children of the region are covered by the preschool education system. the volume of agricultural products amounted to 412.4 billion tenge .
According to available information, grain acceptance will begin in the fall of this year.
According to A.Sskakov, head of the state revenue department in Astana, the main task of the document on improving the state of the capital and increasing state revenues, which are not allocated to local and republican ones, is to increase the volume of revenues to the city budget.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of further strengthening supervision over the targeted use of funds allocated from the national fund to support the economy.
The air show is the most interesting part of the upcoming military parade.
Currently, more than 46 thousand memoranda have been signed, including 1.6 thousand with large enterprises, 44.8 thousand with medium and small enterprises with a total number of employees of 2.1 million people.
What we brought at the exhibition are handmade products.
According to N.Sisakov, during the Great Patriotic War his brother also defended his homeland.
also regulates the procedure for conducting searches by the search authority in the IP structure.
issekeshev aset at the end of last year began to produce a three-phase power transformer at the Ural transformer plant.
it is worth noting that dependence on extractive industries can limit the growth potential of society and undermine the desire to increase the level of education.
The event began with the raising of the flag of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the flash fob "Youth supports public consent."
In order to achieve the second goal, special attention is paid to addressing the main problems of quality of life, such as ecology, health care and the creation of high-performance jobs.
11 sports facilities will be involved in the competition, of which 3 are newly built, 8 are already operating.
Also, Deputy Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan held meetings with the heads of leading economic associations of Germany and deputies of the Bundestag, members of the parliamentary group of Central Asia - Germany.
According to the department, the industrial zone will be created on the Samara-Shymkent highway.
Winner of the Order of the Patriotic War of the 2nd degree.
If a million agrarian companies go bankrupt in America in a year, so many new ones will appear.
the migration trend will continue.
The mother of the Nahuan is pleased with the Republic of Kazakhstan and the mother of the Gorbunov handed her to the Tatiana Alexandrovna.
the program uses qualitative indicators of the UN International Youth Development Index, today Kazakhstan ranks 27th among the leading countries of the world.
In an ethnocultural costume in front of the friendship house, the owners in national costumes plowed tables in yurts, hospitably treated the guests with fragrant tea and baursaks.
Another young entrepreneur - sholpan Ermaganbetova, director of the Silk residential complex - intends to engage in the production of heat-saving and heating materials.
in their spare time, cadets are engaged in cultural and leisure events.
in this regard, he expressed confidence that States parties would show political will and overcome contradictions in order to begin the practical work of the conference.
In addition, according to the chairman of the CEC, in the near future, a press center will be located in preparation for the CEC elections.
Since January 2015, Yuri oksamitny has been the head of the representative office of the Children's Fund (UNICEF) in Kazakhstan.
The winner of the regional competition will take part in the republican competition, which will be held on February 20-21.
According to him, at present in the world train there is a demand for Kazakhstan raw materials.
in addition, the national chamber has developed a set of measures to solve problems of increasing the participation of domestic producers in the procurement of government authorities and national companies and participation in procurement.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the agreement provides for the development of entrepreneurship by consolidating and fulfilling the tasks set by the parties.
providing our prosperous people with affordable housing has become one of our main objectives. providing the population for affordable housing is one of the kazakhstani state policy 's priority .
in this context, and. Merkel stressed the role of the Turkish Academy of Justice, which actively supports the training of employees of the prosecutor's office of Kazakhstan.
the scientific meeting is aimed at the formation of patriotism by describing the emergence of Kazakh statehood.
To date, the aviation fleet of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been replenished with highly maneuverable Su-30 aircraft, see today, aviation park of the armed forces of Kazakhstan has received modern fighter su-30cm.
It should be noted that the terms and definitions used in the implementation of the agreement have meanings.
Following the meeting, it was decided that all efforts should be directed towards strengthening the solid basis of the state.
Further organization of food supplies.
Thus, employees of Msakian organizations are given the opportunity to professionally perform official duties and receive a decent salary when satisfying patients with the service provided.
The purpose of this agreement is to find business partners, strengthening mutual cooperation, as well as provide legal advice.
Given that today all regions of Kazakhstan are provided with a telephone network, the approach we use allows us to receive operational information, "said A. Sadvakasova.
The President has repeatedly said that by 2020 it is necessary to increase the number of citizens involved in sports to 30% of the population.
these features are necessary to improve interaction in air and ground operations.
Within the framework of the language festival, the following competitions will be held:
The work of the MCC employees is under constant control of video cameras, from which images of people come to the situation center.
Already this year, 99 units of vehicles were allocated to improve the material and technical base of the Department of Internal Affairs.
road construction, as a result of which improving regional connectivity will undoubtedly increase the country's domestic capacity.
500 million tenge of targeted current transfers were allocated from the national budget for the implementation of the project in 2014, the ministry said.
As the head of state noted, the High Eurasian Economic Council and the Eurasian Economic Commission are working successfully.
The head of the region got acquainted with the conditions for citizens renting a shopping center.
unsurprisingly, the publication of the business directory aroused great interest.
Autokeruen, which includes scientists and youth, members of the intelligentsia, will visit the cities and districts of Akmola.
According to the parties, the signing of the document is an important step in strengthening bilateral partnership in the field of combating crime, will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the competent authorities of both parties in the criminal legal sphere.
the administrative center of the patriarchy, the residence of the patriarch and the cathedral church of St. George are located in the lamppost of Istanbul.
The purpose of the central level review is to support the Government of the Republic in achieving further success in developing an effective and modern public sector and improving the quality of public administration.
you can help the person you know by specifying the actual address of the place of residence and the street, the house.	you can help the person that you know , you name the region , residential address .	0,65
In addition, creative groups and talents of ethnocultural associations of Astana organized a concert with the participation of youth.	and also there was a concert with the participation of creative collectives of ethnocultural associations and talented young people of astana .	0,65
According to him, other countries are creating such an organization. in comparison with other countries , the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan unites state structures and public institutions .
the aircraft can land in even places, and is also equipped with night viewing glasses.
during training of staff special attention was paid to studying the principles of action of engineering ammunition, technology and property and methods of their application.
I propose 5 new institutional reforms.
a large number of posters were positive.
today he raised his head on the Cossack's door.
The first pages of the newspaper publication begin with the main provisions of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.
voting here is very active.
employment issues are an integral part of the state policy of the President of Kazakhstan.	according to her the state will benefit more from providing the support to unemployed than in case of unemployed skills ' decay .	0,65
the new definition of a pharmacy, including, shows what income or loss the investor received for a certain time, "said Ruslan Engsebayev, chairman of the board of National Information Technologies JSC.
then for the upcoming parade, all participants will come to the capital and begin joint preparations with the parade march of the orchestra in order to line up in a single whole and demonstrate the country's armed forces at the proper high level.
he was part of a team of specialists involved in the development of innovative proposals in the field of diplomacy and international relations.
to carry out combat training missions during firing from military artillery, as well as reconnaissance of rifles and degassing of weapons and military equipment as part of an intensive survey of the forces and substances of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan included in this composition (com-kum), "matibulak" (guards military camp).
installation of engines in upper part of wing prevents ingress of other objects during starting and landing.
According to him, there are several reasons for the preparation of the EAEU customs code.
In general, at the parliamentary hearings it was noted that the situation in the oil and gas industry is fraught with many problems, despite the increase in production.
aa. It should be noted that Heinyaluoma is an honorary professor at the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
Applications for the Olympics-2022 were submitted by 6 cities, including Almaty, Beijing, Oslo.
It is worth noting that this project has proved to be an effective method of modernizing the housing stock, so it was decided to continue this project.
in his opening remarks, he noted that Kazakhstan, as the initiator of the idea of ​ ​ integration in the Eurasian space, adheres to a multi-vector approach in the development of foreign economic relations and is an active participant in many economic associations in the post-Soviet space and beyond.
as well as Major General D. ospanov noted that "the combat feat will never disappear from the memory of the people, the courage and heroism shown by the sardars and soldiers in the battle for their homeland forever fit into our history."
In general, by 2020 it is planned to build more than 7.5 thousand roads and create about 200 thousand jobs.
He instructed representatives of the Governor's Office of the region to carry out weekly, and not formal, control over the implementation of the requirements of the memorandum, especially in connection with the labor rights of employees.
seskempiers also focused on the creation of service and training centers based on the processing of sugar beets, the preparation of a coking sugar factory for the reception of first products.
According to representatives of the Governor's Office of the region, 32 projects were implemented in the first five-year plan of the industrialization map, 1 thousand 500 jobs were created.
Also, the Central Election Commission refused to register as a presidential candidate in connection with the refusal to undergo the procedure for determining fluency in the state language.
here there are 5 technological directions for chemical production aimed at protecting liquid-type plants. there are five production lines of crop protection chemicals in liquid form , as well as two bottling line of products .
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the purpose of the event is to demonstrate the rich flora and fauna of East Kazakhstan region in paintings.
It is an honor for us to meet the participants of the action organized as part of the Year of Kha.
In addition, at the expense of the regional budget, WWII veterans will be provided with free trips to sanatoriums and places of rest.
Because this festive military parade will be opened by servicemen of the central apparatus of the km of Kazakhstan.
In conclusion, Akhmetov noted that diamond is not only a financial center, but also a junction of different cultures and clearly demonstrates the religious, national, ethnic model of tolerance of the metropolis.
This year, funds allocated for health and social services are fully preserved.	as the head of the ministry has announced expenditures for health care and social benefits are secured in full .	0,65
to do this, you need to strengthen tax administration.	it is necessary to strengthen the tax administration .	0,65
the participation of most of the youth in the elections speaks of the democracy of Kazakhstan, said the international observer of the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a deputy of the parliament of the Senate of Spain of 8-9 convocations of José Maria Chicillo.	participation of a large number of young people in the elections says about democracy in kazakhstan , international observer for extraordinary elections jose maria chiquillo .	0,65
the hotline telephone continues to operate.	in temirtau of karaganda region 26 houses are flooded .	0,65
that is, films shown to young people should absorb such values ​ ​ as unity and harmony, justice and cohesion, kindness and friendship, and the ability to be friends in difficult days.	he added that it is the popularization of values defined in the doctrine of the party - unity and harmony , justice and solidarity , kindness and friendship , family values .	0,65
laid the foundation for the activation of the business partnership.	the good base for enhancing of business partnership already exists .	0,65
if you have deep roots, no matter what hurricane there is, said N. Nazarbayev.
According to K. Zhaukhanov, the airport of the capital today ranks second in Kazakhstan in terms of passenger reception.
Also, the Kazakhstan television and radio corporation will give the museum fund a collection of documentaries and other valuable works dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
food trade markets, in turn, undertake to provide trading places for the sale of food products from stabilization funds on preferential terms and to prevent unreasonable increases in services for employers, the report said.
The Head of State noted the significant contribution of the Federal Chancellor to the successful conclusion of the Minsk meeting.
in Russia, such a concept exists, but there are no legal restrictions.
the existing road will be reconstructed in the area and a new street network will be built.
During this time, the organizing committee received about 400 appeals from 45 countries of near and far abroad.
everyone made sure that the industrial program has a strong impact on the regions.
According to him, the flood situation in the country will be restored in about 7-10 days.
after the ceremony of cutting the ribbon, the blue flag of our Motherland with the solemn melody of the anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan was raised above the embassy. after the ribbon-cutting ceremony kazakhstan 's flag of was raised over the embassy .
Note here that oxygen content, object illumination and air humidity are taken into account.
a watch village was built for workers, where all the conditions for the movement of workers were created.
I mean six companies, that is, with the project participants, this agreement has been approved.
For example, a group of mothers with many children noted that thanks to the constant support of the state, the number of children in the country is growing year after year.
It was established that in the event of infection, one of the 1 thousand children dies, "the expert added.
the session on combating desertification had heard the Commission's reports and recommendations, and had discussed the implementation of the provisions of the Convention to Combat Vapour Desert.
23 complaints were appealed against the legality of procedural decisions of the prosecution authorities and (7) the correctness of decisions in the socio-economic sphere, most of which relate to the challenge of judicial acts (88).
Currently, 59 of 83 projects included in the industrialization map have been implemented, which have produced industrial products worth 200 billion tenge.
cultural institutions, education of all cities and districts will host thematic cultural and educational events.
We are also ready to exchange experience in the field of fisheries, "the Governor of the region said.
State remuneration in the amount of 5 to 7 percent for educational contribution is also accrued.
The Chairman of the Council of the Russian Union of Oil and Gas Industrialists y. scaffold noted that the results of the vote showed the full support of the population for the economic and political orientation developed by Nursultan Nazarbayev and implemented during the country's reign.
A lot of work is being done in the field of social policy, as well as systematic work on issues of motherhood, fatherhood, childhood, parental rights, in other words, to protect the institution of the family. the country has done a lot in the framework of social policy and for the protection of maternity , paternity , childhood and parenthood in general .
at the same time, an average of 11.4 centners of wheat per year is taken from each hectare, which, in turn, is considered a low indicator.
now there is a question of conducting assembly work in kindergartens through an electronic portal.
famous historian, professor Tsui Qing in recent years praised the work on the collection, study of documents related to the history of Kazakhstan in the historical archive of Kazakhstan.
this year, floods in the regions were heavy due to melting snow due to rising temperatures. due to the sharp rise of temperature and intense snowmelt , flooding in some regions was very difficult .
So, over five years, the volume of agricultural production has grown 2.5 times, as a result of which some of them the region began to export.
at the same time, as Zhaksylykov noted, pork exports increased from 60 tons to 1,024 tons, that is, from 124 thousand dollars to 1.7 million dollars - exports grew almost 15 times.
The presentation is actively ongoing. the process ( presentation of the kazakh model of interethnic harmony - ia ) continues in the active format .
The main requirement in the execution of a state order is to improve the quality of medical care provided by medical organizations.
our route is known, the choice is obvious, the goal is high.
The technology of Ural scientists provides great opportunities for the development of industrial, civil and road construction, "the report said.
At the same time, do not forget about the moral appearance of military personnel, who are the main determinants in the fight against corruption.
It is planned that in the trial period three industries will be covered, 30-40 companies will receive support.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Russia created a kind of "anthology" of political leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, making his analysis of the book of the Marat crown.
on average, the killing weight increased.	on average slaughter weigh has increased .	0,65
Senior Researcher of Water Management Kazgzi LLP Hasan Tattibayev explained the drip irrigation system to the villagers.
The purpose of the visit is to present to the Federal Chancellor of Germany a. Merkel received a message from President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
In turn, as the head of the faction of the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Road" noted, Member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis, it is impossible to stop the financing of agriculture "or leave cattle without feed, either end the planting campaign or it is a matter of national food security, therefore, we support this decision, funding volumes in this sector have been increased compared to previous years, "he assured.
The head of state drew the attention of the meeting participants to the issues and challenges facing the world community.
we are negotiating with many of our colleagues, and I think that work in this direction will continue in the future.
It is an honor for me that on the eve of such a great wedding, that is, on the eve of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, my final exhibition is being held, "said A. Abdubait.
the history of Kazakh statehood has been preserved not only in annals and legends, but also in gold ornaments made by jewelers.
all questions are necessarily taken into account, how many percent of voters voted, how competitive, attractive the elections were, how access to financial resources was, how divided the nation was or what its cohesion was.
It should be noted that more than 300 business representatives of the two countries gathered at the business forum.
currently, the first five-year industrialization plan has been completed, within the framework of which about 800 enterprises have been created.
80% of commissioned projects reached their planned capacity.
During the warm meeting, the parties expressed hope for further deepening of friendly relations and strengthening of economic partnership.
on the granite board on the eastern side are the names of 28 Panfilov soldiers who died during the defense of Moscow, years of birth and life.
Today, the Richos Borovoye and Noble Heritage charitable foundation purchased the following equipment for the perinatal center of the Kyzylorda region in the amount of 30 million 076 thousand 800 tenge: an artificial air replacement device in the lungs for newborns - (3 pcs.), phototherapy lamps - (4 pcs.), bed monitor - (2 pcs.), syringe pump - (5 pcs.).
According to kdb, long-term credit funds are distributed among twelve second-tier banks (edb) that have approved loan agreements.
now the reopened abbot "will feed 25 children with knowledge.
at the meeting of the committee, a report on the progress of the program was heard, heads of national companies were entrusted with a number of specific tasks aimed at ensuring the order of implementation of tasks and coherence of actions.
we always keep in mind your exploits that you showed during the time when you survived the Tolarsak, "said the deputy director for administrative affairs of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Aktobe region.
Among them: a collection of Khan's clothes, a military uniform of Dzhangir Khan, a bespent of Princess Fatima and recreated objects of everyday use of the Kazakh aristocracy, along with artistic performance at a high level, have dubious scientific significance.
According to the Minister, the ratification of this concept will contribute to improving the lives of persons with disabilities.
According to the NPP, a new working group will begin work on the basis of the instructions of the head of government on the basis of the state revenue committee of the Ministry of Finance to prepare proposals for the draft customs code of the eurozone.
naval vessels went to sea to work out training tasks against ships, air defense, underwater sabotage.
In particular, it provides for the organization of conferences, seminars and training, technical advice and other events in the field of the agro-industrial complex, "the statement said.
in the Karaganda region in the city in the village named after Mustafin, water pumping continues. the village named after mustafin in buhar-zhyrau district of karaganda region continues pumping water .
on the Second World War Veterans Walk of Fame, veterans and home front workers planted named trees with relatives.
The cost of the minimum food basket is calculated by multiplying the minimum consumption of basic foods on average per capita (as well as for various age and socio-demographic groups of the population) by the average prices recorded in representative retail facilities.
Speakers reported on measures taken by the competent authorities of their States to combat drug trafficking, cross-border organized crime, cybercrime and cyberspace.
new residential buildings will also be built in the microdistrict along the left bank of raw materials.
she's a heroic mother.
Also, citizens of this country will be able to open their professions in Kazakhstan.
At the final stage of the event, all six groups competed in a rope brawl.
In addition, as part of the improvement and improvement of the city, streets were expanded, alleys and squares were updated.
It is also planned to include anti-corruption topics in the model framework of law.
In particular, he elaborated on the creation of an era between the Eeo and Vietnam and the holding of negotiations with the Eeo, India, Egypt and Israel.
the parties expressed interest in further strengthening cooperation between the competent authorities of the two countries in order to effectively contain modern threats, develop common approaches to solving regional issues of combating crime.
As the head of the company noted, Akmola farmers guarantee the quality of domestic herbicides.
the construction, maintenance, management of roads in this direction was decided as a single operator, and this operator will be created by an international company with experience in this area, "said a.rakhimzhanov.
It is worth noting that the bill was submitted to the plenary session of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Minister, if Almaty is chosen as the venue for the Olympic Games, the Almaty Olympiad in the covered territory will become the most compact in the last three decades.
One of the tasks of the advisory board is to hold meetings and develop proposals for the creation of a legal framework for the implementation of a single migration policy.
because every soldier must understand the responsibility for committing a corruption offense and look forward to any manifestation of corruption.
According to the Secretary General, the interstate commission on intergovernmental cooperation has been amended.
the delegation of the inter-parliamentary assembly visited the memorial dedicated to those who died in the Great Patriotic War, and carried out part of the eternal fire from it into a special box.
the fifth is the crisis of the global order, the instability of the world economy.
Since the beginning of 2015, the number of women in Almaty has been 54.4% of the city's population.
military personnel, by their models, show children the importance of fulfilling the civil duty to protect their native country.
there is a briquetted salt, starting with food salts, adding to the feed during fattening of livestock.
According to the rector of PSU named after S. Toraigyrov, the implementation of the dual education program will be another step in the direction of the university's entry into the world educational space.
The goal is to recall the exploits, exploits, exploits shown by Kazakh soldiers in the war of that time, to awaken the patriotic sense of modern youth and popularize their exploits.
we are interested not only in ensuring the security of the region, but also in cooperation in various areas of maritime affairs.
The main goal of establishing a communication network is to advise citizens for quick decision-making on emerging issues and problematic issues.
70th anniversary of the great victory, 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Constitution, 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Let me remind you that according to the constitution, the President of Kazakhstan is elected on the basis of secret ballot with citizens. speaking about the order of the upcoming elections and conditions for participation i would like to remind that according to the constitution the president of kazakhstan is elected by the citizens on the basis of universal , equal and direct suffrage by secret ballot .
According to the author of the works, the scores of paintings exhibited at the exhibition are based on the history of different nationalities.
both the quality of training and the level of combat readiness in the armed forces are improving.
The agreement regulates the transfer of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan sentenced by Hungarian courts to deprivation of liberty and Hungarian citizens sentenced by the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan to deprivation of liberty for further serving their sentences in the States of which they are citizens.
we see the history of the Kazakh Khanate from the point of view of state development in close connection with the ancient Saks, Huns and medieval Turks on Kazakhstan, western Turkish, Karluk, Oguz tribes, with subsequent Karakhanids and golden Horde states, "he said.
thanks to you, we have a strong state.
the idea of ​ ​ holding early presidential elections did not arise independently. the idea of snap elections did not appear out of nowhere .
they have two main directions: stimulating the economy, that is, the way to the future. "
Recall that today the Kazakh-Lithuanian business forum is taking place in the capital.
To implement specific production projects, the park of innovative technologies will attract local and foreign high-tech companies.
The film tells how ideological opponents forget about mutual disagreements and help each other survive.
of which 1,582 plots (40%) aired on television channels, 1,637 (42%) were published in print media and 717 (18%) materials were posted on Internet resources.
The Republic of Kazakhstan ranks 12th among the oil-producing countries of the world.
In 2014, the partnership opened a plant for the production of livestock feed at its own expense.
and qualified professionals.
K.Tokayev expressed the readiness of the Senate to legally support joint efforts aimed at improving the health of the population of Kazakhstan.
Deputy Commander of the Eastern Regional Command, a Mukatayev citizen noted that participation in the action symbolizing the beginning of the 70th anniversary of the great victory and the Year of the Veteran of the Commonwealth of Independent States is an honor for each soldier.
they are accompanied by employees of the International Kazakh-Turkish University named after K. A. Yasaui in Turkestan, faculty.
military musicians perform about thirty popular melodies of Soviet and Kazakhstani composers, and pilots as part of private and aerobatic groups demonstrate their skill by creating top aerobatic painting.
As the Vice Minister noted, the participation of veterans in the parade is under strict control.
we also continue to work on training election organizers and participants in the electoral process, as well as updating and adjusting the voter lists, "said K. Turgankulov.
Recall that the head of state at the expanded government meeting noted that in accordance with the new conditions in the global economy, the main direction of the economy should be the development of the processing of agricultural products and the food industry.
specially from the capital came the "men's team of leaders."
In turn, this will increase the quality of services for supplying heat and water to the population, "said the vice minister.
the memorandum would be agreed upon and determine future cases.	according to first deputy chairman of the regional branch of  nur otan " paty serik mukanov , the main aim of cooperation is keeping tight control over the targeted use of the budgetary funds .
The Romanian Minister expressed Romania's passion for expanding and expanding cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan in the energy sector.
I declare a warning to the managers of the entities responsible.
there will be losses, but, as someone says, it will not be such unconditional loss-making.
the leadership of the military institute within a month chose cadets who will be in operation compactly, as well as faithfully perform the tasks assigned.
As of January 31 of this year, 19,167 applications for the legalization of property totaling 155.8 billion tenge were received by the commission under the local executive bodies for the legalization of property in Kazakhstan, the report said.
In this regard, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan expressed interest in the participation of Iranian investors in the implementation of this program.
After the end of the exhibition, all the paintings exhibited to him will replenish the museum fund of aliyah moldagulova.
In 2013, the Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan commissioned 2 residential buildings for 107 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 6.4 thousand square meters.
for example, a modern greenhouse farm was opened in the village of Isaevo, Yeltai rural district.
in addition, in honor of the opening of the exhibition, books of the scientific and expert council of kha were presented to the library.
according to which a new level of tariffs will cover the costs of implementing investment projects.
Expo 2017 was presented at the meeting, where the conditions for its participation were presented.
relics about the heroic feat of Kazakhstanis in the Second World War, an invaluable contribution to the victory will be presented at the exhibition.
in addition to firing from tank weapons and military equipment, the crew is also engaged in physical training.
According to the department, the creative abilities of the participants were highly appreciated, awarded diplomas and valuable gifts.
innovation activity is aimed at developing new technologies, improving new technological processes and technical regulations.
As noted in the academy, the seminar program was developed in accordance with the content and requirements of the standard.
He wished our country prosperity and well-being.
Recall, on February 14, the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan considered the proposals of citizens of Kazakhstan to hold early presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Note that today the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party is taking place in the capital, during which the delegate of the Congress of the Nұr Otan Party unanimously nominated N. Nazarbayev.
We can also say that the paintings continue to live until the great victory and independence, "said Elena Kaltaeva, director of the museum.
priority areas in the field of health and social protection of the population, in particular: the exchange of experience of specialists in improving the health of mothers and children and the development of a set of joint measures; exchange of information on malignant infectious diseases, interaction in emergency situations requiring medical care and sanitary and epidemiological measures; An agreement has been reached to enhance effective collaboration on cooperation in improving the effectiveness and accessibility of health care for migrant workers.
a significant contribution was made by the assembly formed by the fundamental institution for the development of inter-ethnic relations in Kazakhstan.
Presidential elections will be held in Kazakhstan on April 26.
The 8th grader of the special school "young talent" of Pavlodar region showed the best result in mathematics.
thus, it is possible to assess the capabilities of military vessels, the combat readiness of the crew to repel emergencies and the air attack and attack of the surface enemy.
last time I could not pay off my civil debt because of studying abroad.
in addition, the issue of recognition at the international level of diplomas of graduates of Kazakh educational institutions for the training of specialists in the field of maritime transport will receive a legal basis.
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture warn that the situation is difficult. the ministry of agriculture informs the public that the situation is complicated .
at the training ground of the Shayan brigade, military personnel underwent a training course for several anti-terrorist exercises, including the arrest of the enemy inside the building, the setting of an explosive charge, actions, offensive and support as part of the shooting support group.
the birth of happiness on a person's soul is the same.
is not allowed from now on.
the justified anniversary of our state, which over the years of sovereignty has increased its potential, increased its economy, thereby providing defense and increased security.
the company has its own laboratory, where raw materials and finished products are manufactured.
in most cases, the work of coaches is ignored.
After drinking tea, they talked.
During the conversation, the Secretary of State briefed the human rights defender on Kazakhstan's achievements during the years of independence in the field of women's protection and empowerment.
In order to address issues of social responsibility, it is planned to deepen and intensify cooperation between non-governmental organizations and State bodies, non-State organizations and institutions.
more than 100 engines of various aircraft were launched from the forces and means carrying combat duty, spare airfields were prepared for operation. air defence forces raised funds on combat duty , launched the engines of more than 100 units of various types of aviation equipment , prepared to use alternate airports , " the message reads .
The Norwegian side expressed interest in participating in EXPO-2017 and expressed confidence that EXPO-2017 will become a convenient platform for showing the best world studies, as well as establishing partnerships in the field of alternative energy.
In 2014, we ranked 25th in the global index on the proportion of working women compared to men. the global competitiveness index of working women in 2014 took high 25th place .
the plant is equipped with modern equipment imported from Germany.
at the meeting of Karim Massimov with the President of the World Economic Forum (wef), the klaus swab discussed the agenda of the forum, which is now taking place in Davos, and issues of expanding cooperation between Kazakhstan and the wef, the report said.
it is obvious that this victory is an indicator of the expressed support of the people of Great Britain for your policies. this win is evidence of the support of the people of the uk .
the auction will provide a fully open method that will attract investments from large companies.
transfer it to self-regulatory bodies.
I visited the country's only radiological center for the treatment of cancer.
The sides discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres.	it is planned to sign a free trade zone between the eurasian economic union and the socialist republic of vietnam , the foreign ministry reported .	0,65
increasing the duration of training and introducing the requirement of residency will significantly increase the level of future specialists.	the increase in training and the introduction of mandatory residency will significantly increase the level of training of future specialists .	0,65
today, despite the fact that he is on vacation, he fails in educating young people in a patriotic spirit.	today , being retired , he continues to work for the good of his country , engages in patriotic education of youth , actively promotes the national language , national traditions and rituals .	0,65
103 persons with disabilities are assigned sign language specialists, 214 persons with disabilities use the services of individual assistants.	in addition , number of wheelchair-accessible vehicles increased from 3 to 5 units .	0,65
Already this year in Akmola region within the second five-year plan of the industrialization map it is planned to implement 2 projects providing 25 thousand permanent jobs.	only this year it 's planned to commission 25 projects with the creation of more than 2000 permanent workplaces in akmola region under the second five-year plan of industrialization map .	0,65
According to experts, in the market of the region the cost of burning bricks is 35-36 tenge, and the products of the plant are sold at 32-33 tenge.	also , the use of this equipment has allowed reducing the production costs and establishing a completely non-waste production .	0,65
At the same time, he noted that the construction of the 3rd route of the Kazakh-Chinese gas pipeline is nearing completion in Kazakhstan, which will ensure the transportation of 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year, in addition, the construction of the main Bozoy-Shymkent gas pipeline is underway.	also , as m. mirzagaliev noted , kazakhstan completes the construction of the third gas pipeline kazakhstan-china , which will provide the transportation up to 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year , but 30 billion cubic meters had already transported .	0,65
because this is an eternal topical topic.	the tragedy should not be repeated .	0,65
summing up the results of the express competitions, the deputy commander of the airborne assault brigade for educational work, Lieutenant Colonel Rajanov, noted that all the girls were honorably tested, adequately defended the honor of their troops and have every right to call themselves defenders of the fatherland, who serve equally with men.	summing the express competitions , deputy commander of the air assault brigade for educational work lieutenant colonel radzhan zhanyssov n said that all the girls were worthy , defended the honor of his troops , and rightfully call themselves protectors of the fatherland , carrying his service on a par with men .	0,65
The head of the city congratulated the audience on the major victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the presidential election and noted that the result of the vote is an important stage for Kazakhstan.	the mayor congratulated the audience on the convincing victory of nursultan nazarbayev in the presidential elections .	0,65
It was about good results of the visit of the Mayor of the Emirate metropolis Hussein nasser lutu to the southern capital of Kazakhstan at the end of last year and about the visit of Mayor of Almaty akhmetzhan Yessimov to Dubai this year.	they stressed the positive results of the visit of mayor of an uae 's megalopolishussain nasser lootah to the southern capital of kazakhstan at the end of the last year , and prospects of a reciprocal visit of akim ( mayor ) of almaty akhmetzhan esimov to dubai this year .	0,65
In 2014, 22 meetings of the commission on subsidizing interest rates on loans, as well as leasing agreements on agricultural machinery and technological equipment were organized; in 2014, 9,092 contracts were approved for a total of 6.3 billion tenge to be subsidized.	in 2014 , 9092 contract were approved for the total amount due to subsidies in 2014 , 6.3 billion tenge .	0,65
all religious holidays in the country are celebrated at the same level.	the country had the same respect for all religions , calls a man to goodness and mercy , tolerance , compassion and love .	0,65
Every year our country embarks on a new path of development.	each year of the xxi century will go down in the history time increasing the country 's success .	0,65
More than 300 students of the region took part in it.	it was attended by more than 300 students in the region .	0,65
as part of the inaugural event b. ordabayev held a protocol meeting with the President of Uruguay. as part of the inaugural event b.ordabayev met with president of uruguay t. vazquez .
As part of the project, his coordinator Irina Ignatovich conducted a training with students on the correct use of electrical equipment.
I always promote the main strategic features of our president in management.	as the deputy chairman of the assembly of people of kazakhstan stated every address by the kazakh president includes perspective targets .	0,65
I remember how hard it was to develop agriculture after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
independence is not the gift of history or the property of today, it is a sacred duty to past ancestors, our great responsibility to the future generation.
today we consider many approaches used in international practice and determine which of them can be used in the conditions of Kazakhstan, and which cannot be used.
Although we attribute the first five-year plan to industrialization and manufacturing, we have not yet reached the limit of economic growth. to date industrialization is not driver of the economic growth .
Ms. Juncker also noted the complexity and importance of working to update the voter rolls.
u. karabalin noted that taking into account the agreements on the supply of petroleum products between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation were regulated by the current agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
Today, the participants of the action will be divided into several groups during the day, talk with residents of the oil region of Aktau, answer questions from residents regarding the provision of public services, social protection and support, doing business and work in the field of agriculture.
his voice is full of overtones, so the voice sounds stronger than the orchestra itself, "they say in theaters.
The event will be attended by the director of the archive of the President of Kazakhstan Boris Japarov.
each of them has its own plan and is created for the future of the population.
Dozens of trucks and special equipment are also involved in the cleaning.
Since 2010, the volume of investments in 13 projects under the program to attract production infrastructure amounted to KZT 3,755,6 million.
avokeruen "Glory to victory!" In order to respect the heroic exploits of war veterans and home front workers who won with their selfless exploits, and attention to them today.
visual training was also conducted by department employees.
Of course, experts who know the circumstances of the case do not believe in this, but I must say that there are those who believe in it.
According to the head of the department of agriculture kairat omarov, in order to increase the capacity of processing enterprises, it is planned to restore stopped production, including 2 dairy processing, 5 meat processing and 7 flour mills.
The implementation of the standards of the document will allow in the future to increase the production capacity of the industry, increase the competitiveness of manufactured products and expand the trade market for these goods, including third countries, "the statement said.
this is the highest figure among all countries of the post-Soviet space.
it contains complete bloody information about its owner.
around the garden there is a memorial platform.
After graduating from a pedagogical college in the city of Guryev, my grandfather Kuslan Bayadilovich dyusembiev went to the front. having graduated normal school in guryev , my grandfather kuspan baedilovich dyusembiyev went to the front .
the name of the photo exhibition is taken from one of abay's poems.
It is worth noting that all the fossils that are today mined in the deposit were explored in Soviet times, during the years of independence not a single fossil site was identified in this territory.
And next year, the plant will begin work on the processing of solid household waste.
when conquering the Abn strip, it was necessary to repeatedly raise the upcoming 25-pound boxes, transport the "wounded" fighter, go the deep path, work under barbed wire and perform other complex elements.
individuals who have submitted a publication for the first time will not undergo re-examination within a three-year period.
the journey was very interesting, students were able to see the production process with their own eyes. the tour was very informative , we must admit that not every day you get the chance to see with own eyes how one of the largest regional enterprise operates .
at the same time, Kazakhstan should develop its proposals on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions.
in the war years he worked as a sanitary instructor in the military sanitary train of the kafatide pinelope panatayevna.
Considering that during the period of the moratorium, inspections in the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises could be carried out only in agreement with the Prosecutor General's Office, a framework of criteria for their harmonization was defined.
B.Saparbayev reported to the Head of State on the implementation of instructions, the implementation of state programs in the social sphere, as well as plans for the upcoming period.
the second five-year industrialization plan envisages the development of a competitive sector.
in an expanded format, a number of trade, economic and humanitarian issues were discussed in the Shui space.
before them we must show our solidarity.
392 of them were transferred to novice entrepreneurs.
In addition, in 2015, the volume of targeted transfers allocated to the employment roadmap was determined, which amounted to 1001 million tenge.
And in April, more precisely, April 1-6, 8-14, April 15-19, we regularly inform representatives of the media about the results of our work.
In 2013, the concept of "under one body" was launched, developed by the city akimat and successfully continued in 2014.
Besides, a. Bashmakov noted that holding the kha year is a great merit of the head of state.
representatives of the two countries came to a unilateral decision on the training of tank crews.
explosions and heavy shell contusion on the legs of militants are still reflected, "the report said.
According to judicial statistics, more than half of all claims against actions of state bodies were satisfied.
In the village of Silk Road, the head of the region was presented with painting of the art production plant of Kazart Kazakhstan Art Plant LLP.
the new form fully takes into account the characteristics of all ages.
The Supreme Patriarch and the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to establish peace and harmony in the entire Armenian Catholic world A.D. highly appreciating Nazarbayev's initiative, he noted that within the framework of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, which has become an authoritative international platform for the global dialogue of civilizations, ties are being established between representatives of different religions, as a result of which trust and mutual respect between them are increased.
Yesterday, the Uppsala University hosted the first event of the national plan approved by the Government of Kazakhstan, dedicated to the celebration of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The head of the region noted that in connection with the measures taken, the heating season was successfully completed.
In addition, work on laying and ongoing repairs to roads is provided.
this spurs a leading position to eliminate problems related to the lack of citizenship of Kazakhstan, "said Bernard Doyle, regional representative and regional coordinator of the UN in Central Asia.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State to solve the problems of emergency and three-shift schools, the volume of allocations for the construction of educational facilities was increased in the region, in 2014 the construction of 16 educational facilities worth 4.7 billion tenge was carried out, including 7 facilities at the expense of the republican budget.
significant share of investments in the districts 56.2% or 19192.3 million tenge, in Shymkent and Saryagash district - 21.5% or 7354.5 million tenge.
expansion of the rehabilitation international sea trade port in the northern direction and construction of a transport and logistics center "sea whitewash" in the city of whitewash.
In turn, the American diplomat congratulated on the successful presidential elections and noted that their result expresses the sincere desire of the Kazakh people.
quality care and safety for the needs of the priority patient.
individual training classes lasted about a month.
the total area of ​ ​ the complex is 6.28 ha.
then it will be until the end of the war.
According to him, every second case was dismissed by industry or on the adoption of preliminary measures.
According to the representative of the relevant committee, the number of international publications in rating magazines is growing.
they will solve a number of problems related to the development of modern industries, increase the gross regional domestic product, and create new jobs.
According to the Ministry of Defense, during the exercises it is necessary to quickly carry out the transition of personnel to the combat system within the established time, sending existing weapons and military equipment to the conditional place of deployment of troops.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the Business Women's Council will assist women entrepreneurs in finding office and production buildings, provide full information on state programs and state support implemented in the country, and solve issues related to initial capital and rental property.
In addition, O.Yanovskaya noted that a "hotline" has been established for citizens who want to receive financial issues by phone.
Governor of the capital expressed special gratitude to the Paralympians.
According to him, in the South Kazakhstan region, where he was awarded the title of "Honorary Citizen," he is still more than 90 years old.
It is noted that the volume of investments in the economy at the expense of own funds over the past five years exceeds 2 billion tenge.
In the western region, it is planned to train specialists from the oil and gas industry and the petrochemical institute.
It is worth noting that the work financed by the state will be carried out in poorly studied territories, where attracting investors will be difficult, "he added.
May our country now move forward.
for many years he worked in the field of health care, held senior positions.
from the capital he went to Karaganda.
Along with the 70th anniversary of the Victory, we should not forget about one internship of history.	at the award ceremony , deputy governor zhaksylyk omar called all businessmen to help the orphans .	0,66
this requires powerful drilling rigs.	this requires powerful drilling rigs .	0,66
the essence of our position is to increase the number of representatives of Hungarian small and medium-sized businesses who are looking to invest as much as possible in spending markets.
Thanks to the critical policy of the head of state, women are granted equal rights with men. with the policy of the head of state , women are given the same rights as men .
Within the framework of the project, a festival of friendship of peoples, a scientific conference dedicated to the 290th anniversary of the birth of cotton, events dedicated to the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenko, large-scale collections such as Turkish folklore and Slavic melody were organized.
Abdullah al-Turkic President highly appreciated the initiative of N. Nazarbev to convene a congress of religious leaders, noting that Kazakhstan is demonstrating an advanced model of solidarity and cohesion, tolerance, while current international conflicts have intensified.
Funded work in preschool institutions is carried out once a year at the beginning of the preparation of preparatory groups for school. preschool enrollment is held once a year , when the preparatory group is preparing .
The parties discussed the next steps to implement the treaty, stressing the importance of coordinated action to prevent and combat transnational organized crime.
conducting joint scientific research, carrying out general activities and publishing scientific collections.
According to the press service of the Senate, the agreement defines effective procedures for the identification and safe and consistent return of persons who do not fulfill or have ceased to fulfill the conditions of entry, stay or residence in the territory of both states, and will also facilitate the transit of such persons.
today he is the author of more than 500 paintings.
The purpose of the group's work is to promote state policy, form public opinion, develop higher national spiritual traditions and customs, patriotic education of young people, and attract the older generation to deliver strong traditions of work and service to their homeland.
Today, in the context of the transformation of Kazakh society and its integration into world society, the importance of preserving family values ​ ​ and traditions is growing.
the implementation of projects is under constant control of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
construction and installation work is currently underway there.
In turn, as the Director of the Department for Culture and Art of Kazakhstan noted, Kazakhstan pays great attention to the restoration of ancient monuments.
In addition, there are no private sector houses on the embankment, "says the head of the department.
The head of state held a telephone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
however, regulation of obsolete inefficient land relations limits the potential of land as a factor of production.
As Svetlana Zhakupova noted, the second stage of modernization provides for the transformation of the basic pension payment.
It is worth noting that next year, in accordance with the tasks set by the head of state, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be held.
The letter of the initiative group of people with disabilities notes that the comprehensive support of the head of state will allow representatives of this group of the population to actively participate in all spheres of life.
Topical issues facing the majority will be voiced at the appropriate rostrum of the assembly, where, of course, their positive and common solution will be found.
It is planned that after the launch of the wheat terminal with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year and two main freight terminals and containers with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year, the volume of cargo transportation will increase to 19.5 million tons per year.
the president's strategy is the formation of effective statehood, this is a decisive issue.
Prior to this, in 2010, the historical drama Kenesary the Sinner was born in collaboration with the playwright and director, which until today has become the viewer's favorite production.
these regulations have formed great trends in the management of the country, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
127.7 thousand people are employed in small and medium-sized businesses.
After graduation, he worked as the chief doctor of the state farm.
now the veteran lives with his family in Kostanay.
votes are currently being counted.
According to the national company, at the meeting it was decided to create a committee to monitor the implementation of the transformation program under the board of directors of Samruk-kazyna.
In turn, Asset Issekeshev expressed interest in the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan to intensify joint work with the Governor's Office of the capital.
The exhibition, dedicated to the interesting and vivid phenomenon in the traditional culture of the Kazakh people, introduces painting, graphics and sculptural work of Kazakhstan.
The development path of Kazakhstan is impressive with its systemic pace, especially constructive steps towards new heights at a time when there is economic instability in the world, "the letter says.
After that, the rector of Moscow State University named after I. Zhansugurov, chairman of the scientific and expert group a.becturganova, public figure n.lushnikov, head of the department of the Taldykorgan Polytechnic College, members of modest and various ethnocultural associations shared their views on public harmony, peace and unity.
21,462 hectares are managed by a production cooperative, including 15,296 hectares of arable land.
the primary disadvantage is "the lack of centralized regulation of world markets."
The head of state instructed the Ministry of Education and Science together with the Ministry of Culture and Sports to develop a roadmap for the development of trilingual education.
thanks to such methods, driver mechanics, gaining experience, go through difficult sections with each stage and perform this task without interference.
The volume of production in the manufacturing industry grew by 4.3% and amounted to 17.8 billion tenge.
this order did not go to its consumer.
the area of ​ ​ spring sowing will be 18.5 million hectares, grain - 15.2 million hectares.
to date, 5% of investments have been invested, more than 2.5 thousand people have been involved.
An important result of the visit was the signing of a memorandum of cooperation between the Eurasian National University named after L.N. Gumileva and Oulu University in the development of joint academic programs.
Also in Paris, negotiations will be held between the Secretary General of the Gulshara Abdykalikova and Eidu Mari Kiwiniemi and the head of the secretariat for global relations of the Eidu with the Marcos bonus.
Gulshara abdykalikova noted that Kazakhstani patriotism is brought up primarily out of love for the motherland and respect for its state symbols.
winners will be awarded in the capital - the capital on the eve of the Day of Information and Communications Workers.
According to the chairman of the meeting, since 2009 Kazakhstan has been operating the law "On Combating the Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds from Crime and the Laundering of Terrorism."
he distributed various books of Kazakhstan and information publications on priority areas of investment activities of Kazakhstan.
Sheikh Hamad and Isa al-Khalifa expressed their readiness to continue the trust dialogue and joint work on all issues of bilateral cooperation.
an eternal country is a saving that we have received from a generation that has passed away.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan emphasized the need to improve the existing anti-terrorist infrastructure.
Of course, you have to spend money on expanding the city's infrastructure and improving the environment.
unfortunately, our union was threatened with a great test, export prices for oil and other export products fell.
Taking into account the specifics of growth rates today, representatives of Kazakhtelecom JSC plan that in 2015 the number of subscribers will exceed 3 million people.
According to the representative of the department, this year gas production will increase by 4.2%, from 352.6 to 367.3 million cubic meters.
Recall that today the capital will host the Kazakh-Lithuanian business forum with the participation of the prime ministers of the two countries.
Today in the Nizhny Novgorod region there is no queue for housing. today 's mangistau region has not people on the waiting list for housing from the list of communal property .
erik sultanov got acquainted with the modernization of the facility.	currently the non food shop is under reconstruction .	0,66
In addition, the senator noted that the country's funds are under strict political control.	he emphasized that the use of funds will be under strict and political control .	0,66
in the future, it is planned to open new bus routes associated with other regional centers.	it is planned to further opening of the new bus routes to other major cities of kazakhstan .	0,66
the concert showed a real image of a soldier of war years and a spectacle of war times.	during the concert , the images of soldiers of that war and the atmosphere of wartime have been recreated so believable that there were tears in the eyes of the audience - veterans and young soldiers .	0,66
I want to talk about a number of features aimed at solving the issues before us and relevant issues.
and this means employment and income growth.
According to K. Kirekbaev, in 2014 large enterprises of the region made a significant contribution to the development of the region's economy.
In addition, it was decided to reduce the time for issuing leaflets for collecting signatures and make sure that they are unreliable.
in the second year he begins a military internship.
Such proposals came to parliament from voters in all regions of the country, "- said K. Zhakupov.
During the event, the akim of the district presented commemorative medals dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
some countermagnets left the red line and joined the city. some cities are located near the city .
the best masters were awarded diplomas and valuable prizes from UNDP vkos.
Improvement of indirect taxation mechanisms.
During the meeting, the observer's work on voting day was analyzed in detail, clarification was given on how to act in the event of any shortcomings and irregularities in the election, how to contact the mission headquarters.
the meeting was created for constructive dialogue in an environment of mutual understanding.
toys were purchased for disabled children, mothers with many children received gifts.
in general, since the beginning of the project, the monthly income of the family amounted to 148,811 tenge, including the salary of the parent - 97,500 tenge, the social benefit of the spouse as a mother with many children - 7,705 tenge, the child - 43,606 tenge.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the armed forces of the country pay special attention to this significant event.
In addition, 967 citizens were sent to public works, 430 were employed without the use of state support measures, 322 were employed in social jobs.
the formation of the Kazakh army took place in a difficult situation, when the state of the economy was small.	supreme commander made every effort to accomplish this task ,  - chairman of the regional branch of the ngo " veterans of the armed forces " token bilyalov said .
at the same time, he noted that in the near future the financial sphere of activity will be changed.
The school's gym is spacious, convenient for training, but the training tools are marriage.
its purpose is to prepare the Sardars for the work of multinational headquarters in peacekeeping operations as part of a steam programme.
Representatives of entrepreneurs and public organizations participating in the event also noted that the implementation of the signed memorandum will increase the effectiveness of protecting the legal rights and interests of business representatives.
cooperation between the parties will be carried out on the principles of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the current legislation, transparency, mutual trust and prevention of entry into the internal affairs of the parties.
This year, cotton crops with deep loosening technology sown 37.0 thousand hectares and increased 3 times compared to last year.
the views of the interlocutors that this trend is based on the overall positive effect of bilateral relations and is positively affected by high-level and high-level ties and the relationship between the business community of the two countries.
a number of measures requiring maximum elaboration and integrated approaches were noted in the implementation.
For this, within the framework of the "Nұrly zhol" program, great opportunities have been created for domestic producers.
The competition, organized in order to strengthen the civil-patriotic education of the young generation, increase interest in the history of the Fatherland, modernize the spirit of the Heroes of the Second World War, popularize creative talents, was attended by young fencing masters aged 6 to 16 years.
The development of tourism in Kazakhstan, especially business tourism, distinguishes the position of our state from the countries of Central Asia.	he stressed that the strategy  kazakhstan-2050 " gives us confidence in the further development of cooperation .
The Foreign Ministers of Kazakhstan and Turkey expressed their intention to continue the dialogue and resolve all issues of bilateral relations on the basis of the principles of fraternity and strategic partnership.
Joyful asylov "- one of the fundamental factors of Kazakhstan patriotism and the development of the Kazakh language is the task of state bodies and the whole society.
The Kazakh Research Institute of Eye Diseases is the main ophthalmological center of the country with an 80-year history.
Employees of the library of the head of state planted hundreds of trees on the territory of the Nazarbayev center building on Workers Street.
In addition, upon completion of the courses, participants receive appropriate certificates that allow them to use the services of concessional and grant financing in the presence of an innovative project.
Governor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov read out the congratulatory telegram of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Governor's office reported.
work is carried out jointly by German partners.	the kazakhstani side cooperates with german colleagues .	0,66
The parties will also consider effective ways of cooperation in the implementation of projects in the development of military-industrial complexes of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan.	besides , the interlocutors will touch upon effective ways of cooperation in the implementation of projects in the field of development of the defense-industrial complexes kazakhstan and tajikistan .	0,66
Speaking at the event, representatives of the city's public thanked the head of state for his constant attention and comprehensive support for the development of culture, science and education in the country.	representatives of the city public thanked the president for the support and constant attention to the development of culture , science and education in the country .	0,66
today, thanks to state support, farmers got the opportunity to get equipment at preferential interest.
The action starts on April 16 in St. Petersburg.
the number of tournaments within the country does not change, although the number of trips of our chess players to international competitions is decreasing.
Turnout was 95.22%.
these trends increased the possibility of passage at the return site and reduced gas emissions.
no losses should be made at the expanded meeting of the government of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The resolution of the expert meeting provides for inter-quarter monitoring of the socio-economic development of the region, aimed at the effective implementation of the new economic strategy by public structures of the city and the region.
currently, forms are filled out manually on paper, after which the collected data are entered into information systems working in the health sector of the republic, "the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
I wish you happiness, health, well-being to your families!
now due to weather conditions, some work has been written off for April 2015.
youth representatives in the region noted the high role of the head of state in the successful development of the country.
In honor of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the participants were congratulated by the akim of the March district nurzhaugan kalauov, deputy head of the administration of the Akbulak district galina chashkova, chairman of the Kuandyk district council of deputies alexander gubanov.
The structure of sown areas is diversified.
The Deputy Prime Minister said that since last year, 199 enterprises have been monitored daily, the condition of which is assessed in order to influence the change in the employment situation in a timely manner.
we have specialized kindergartens for children with hearing, vision and musculoskeletal disorders.
today we gladly celebrate the anniversary of the great victory before the soldiers who did not return from the war, before the veterans, whose ranks are becoming rare every day, "said D. Akhmetov.
these courses are held annually in order to improve the quality of communication tools, determine coordinates in the work map and orientation of the area, as well as improve the adoption of correct decisions in the management of aviation units.
today he is a mentor to many young talents.
after a detailed discussion, the chamber adopted the document.
it should not be hidden that public servants, managers and ordinary workers risked being at risk of corruption.
at a meeting with a representative of the ministry, hero grandfathers spoke about the difficulties and difficulties of the war, shared their memories.
Deputy Minister of Defense Talgat Mukhtarov said that thanks to equivalent mutually beneficial cooperation, it was possible to significantly increase labor discipline and maintain a stable moral and moral situation in labor collectives, especially in collectives with predominant civilian personnel.
Kazakhstan pavilion with an area of ​ ​ more than three thousand square meters is called "Kazakhstan is a country of opportunity."
we should prepare the personnel required by employers who now work within the framework of programs implemented in Kazakhstan. we must to train personnel that are needed today to the employers in accordance with the state programs that are implemented on the territory of kazakhstan .
a lot of young people.
The volume of oil products from the Russian Federation to Kazakhstan has traditionally amounted to 1.8 million tons, Mynbayev recalled.
During the event, the main training disciplines were tested, including tactical training, practical shooting with a Makarov pistol and an ak-74 assault rifle.
master classes are also held, very complex operations are carried out to replace the liver and kidneys with adults and children.
all of them are given attention.
The path to a bright future is a great opportunity to respond to criticism of time, "he said.
As we celebrate the March holiday, we are building great trust and hard work, openness and tolerance in reviving our common traditional values.
Vietnam set the task by 2020 to achieve the status of an industrial economy, modernize the manufacturing industry, and increase the share of scientifically secured industries. vietnam set a task to achieve the status of the industrial economy , the modernization of the manufacturing sector and increasing the share of high-tech industries by 2020 .
In this project, it is very convenient for villagers who do not have the Internet installed, as well as special specialists indicate the possibility of using the Internet at this place.
According to the CIS Statistical Committee, the volume of industrial production in the Commonwealth countries increased by 0.7% in 2014 compared to 2013. according to the cis statistical committee , the industrial output increased by 0.7 percent compared to 2013 .
in connection with Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU, a number of difficult situations await us. we expect slight stress associated with the adaptation of our economy to the membership of kyrgyzstan in the eeu .
young people understand that this is a manifestation of our country's competitiveness, success in the global world.
Opening the meeting, the Governor of the region noted that the recent congress of the party "Nұr Otan" also discussed issues of supporting entrepreneurship.
In his speech, Adaulbaev noted that the main emphasis of supervisory activities is on the prevention and prevention of violations, in connection with which the legal explanatory work of prosecutors has been strengthened.
As it became known, in December of this year the Parliament of Kazakhstan adopted a package of legislative acts on the radical improvement of the conditions for entrepreneurial activity.
Thus, the "Republican Center for Space Communications," according to the conclusion of the white state commission, switched to the commercial use of kazsat-3 services.
It is also reported that from April 1 of this year an agreement was concluded on the sale of 100% of the shares of the joint-stock company Center for Transport Services.
This year, the 2015 forum also provides many proposals and comprehensive measures to attract investors.
in addition, the Buudb has developed ways to determine the category of energy efficiency and marking of the facility.
The price of the dollar varies both 50 years ago and now in all countries.
and at the entrances to the regional centers - how many new jobs have been created over the past period, and not with me, about which you need to post information.
The first place in the nomination of the Association of Kazakhstani Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan was won by the Astana bekzat makhambet, the second - the oral major of mukhambets, the third - a resident of the Taldykorgan Renata Evseev.
Staff therefore require different skills, skills and skills.
upon completion of training, students will receive a certificate of international form.
Chairman of the Nuclear and Energy Supervision and Control Committee.
another interesting color, in which musical works of Kazakhstani performers of the war years are used.
however, when enemy gunmen fired at an object moving on ice, all fighters from the first truck died on the spot.
there is a large activity of the local population.
successful implementation of the language policy is one of the priorities of the strategic development of the DPRK. successful implementation of the language policy is one of the priorities of the strategic development of gsph .
The head of state also noted that such events as the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory are of great importance for the education of patriotism of the younger generation, "the ministry said.
the purpose of the collection is to improve the psychological qualities of military personnel, taking into account the specifics of operational tasks, to develop a single method of organizing psychological work, as well as a method of psychological training of military personnel.
The main purpose of the information activities of the judicial cabinet is the most open judicial system for the population.
Since the beginning of the competition, 1,500 works have come from different parts of the country.
signing a limited agreement will allow you to start implementing the project and successfully introduce it to the capital, joining forces, "he said.
after the banner is ready, it will be solemnly presented at the ceremony of laying flowers on the square of the defenders of the Fatherland in the capital.
however, in his opinion, this does not mean that the phenomenon of multifaceted and interethnic relations has collapsed.
R. Zhoshybayev noted that the exhibition "Expo-2017" will give a new impetus to the development and use of alternative sources of energy, will create a presentation of the best technologies in this area and will allow to implement energy-efficient programs.
The head of the department of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region, Natalya Kuzyat, recalled the responsibility of applicants for state grants.
partnership will allow, first of all, to maintain a workplace in the region. the signing of the memorandum monitors daily .
The Deputy Prime Minister demanded that the television and radio company strictly comply with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of languages ​ ​ and warned about the need to prevent such violations in the future.
Currently, a sports palace with an athletics arena and an ice arena is being built in Petropavlovsk.
The Council of Veterans of the City of Astana has 3 veterans of the Second World War, 5 veterans of the rear and rear and white bodies.
In order to discuss bilateral cooperation with the heads of the highest financial control bodies of other countries, a number of bilateral meetings were held within the framework of the symposium.
The Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the central and local executive bodies, regularly conducts preventive measures in order to take measures to prevent injured people in winter emergencies, which include exercises, storm warning and bringing the rules of conduct in winter to the attention of organizations and the population, and timely road pavement.
According to experts, it is these elections that will go down in the history of world elections with an indicator of the number of voters.
According to experts, it is these elections that will go down in the history of world elections with an indicator of the number of voters.
Consultations are also being held to attract experts to the hotel, restaurant and other industries, "said Omarov, Deputy Director for Social Affairs of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana.
these facilities will be commissioned on September 1.
approaching the points of payment at the exit from the capital and near the city of Shchuchinsk, the cameras in them immediately determine what is paid for by the number of the transport, ensuring uninterrupted travel.
The development and implementation of a national project to promote the idea of ​ ​ a society of universal labor, these are the Nұrly zhol infrastructure development program, the second five-year industrialization plan, as well as the achievements of Kazakhstanis in labor, entrepreneurial, scientific and educational and other professional services over the years of independence thanks to the state policy of promoting the ideas of a society of universal labor, taking into account the independent history of success (heroes of our time), promoting the advantages and popularity of workers and vocational specialties that can meet the requirements of the state policy of industrialization and the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
The main goal of the project is to strengthen the service role of credit partners for the active use of financial instruments offered by the state to commodity producers in the field of agriculture.
Note that the head office of this organization is located in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
including on the basis of the need to prioritize the protection of the rights of the child in accordance with the generally recognized principles and norms enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by Kazakhstan, "the conclusion of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development says.
adults fulfilled the dream of children on Kokshetau Square, "the report said.
As a result of the diversification of crop production in 2014, the area of ​ ​ oilseeds exceeded the level of 2 million hectares for the first time. as a result of diversification in crop acreage each year the area under oilseeds is increased .
World Bank experts reviewed effective methods for implementing industrial policies. experts of the world bank will find the way to improve industrial policy .
university - students focused on obtaining a specific specialty.
Also, Kusherbayev noted that today the competition in the market is not very developed.
the possibility of establishing integration in the field of tourism and the bank.
According to Chairman of the Board Aktobe Rahim Mukhamedgaliyev, to prepare for the heating season of 2015-2016, major and ongoing repairs of the main and auxiliary equipment of the enterprise are provided in the amount of 546.2 million tenge.
We plan to solve the problem of the school in the village of Maidakol by the Islamic Development Bank, the Governor of the region said, having familiarized himself with the state of the school.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that the department created last year has important tasks in terms of improving the public service system and ensuring counteraction to corruption offenses.
During the established time of operation Akniet bn LLP executed 5.3 billion tenge.
in addition, according to him, the fund intends to transform the management method.
In addition, posters submitted to the competition should not campaign a single candidate. it is important that received posters don 't contain direct canvass .
The partnership, which annually places more than a thousand hectares of rice, was the first in the region last year on the Buranchi site to sow potatoes with drip irrigation of 10 hectares of land.
In addition, B. Zhumakhanov handed over to the participants of the meeting brochures with the text of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev "Nұr zhol," translated into Vietnamese, and also announced the measures taken in the framework of the implementation of the new economic policy on integrated industrialization of Kazakhstan.
A. Mukhamediuly noted that the Kazakh language has its own national characteristics and pronunciation style.
the total amount of financing through banks is 33.5 billion tenge.
today Akmola residents handed over the baton to North Kazakhstan residents.
This is very good, "said the observer.
I twice watched the elections in Ukraine and in Russia, and here I monitor on behalf of everyone.
In the first week of exercises, the unit will be trained in tactical tasks, and in the second week a field exercise will be conducted in accordance with free tactical conditions.
- legalization of real estate and capital.
Addressing the participants of the session, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that the common task for all CSTO member states is to strengthen security, provide the necessary conditions for peaceful and sustainable development in the region.
At the same time, an agreement was signed, the Ministry of Investment and Development said.
they have the ability to serve more than 400 people daily in the order of the electronic queue.
That is, the Nur Otan party fully supports the initiative of the KHA representatives, "said B. Baibek.
and under the State program "Road Map 2020" 1,900 jobs were created.
The project was attended by young talented musicians and famous artists of Kazakhstan, who teach at Austrian music educational institutions and perform on Austrian stages.
in the near future the document will be sent to parliament.
Issekeshev aset also got acquainted with the work of the Sokolovo-Sarybay mining and processing production association of the metalworking plant.
we are given freedom of movement in polling stations. we have free access ; we can go to any polls .
Abdrakhman Bektaevich received several injuries on the battlefield.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, the defense department relies on three foundations: prevention, control and legislation.
in a few years we will not need to invite foreign specialists, because we will have our own specialists. after few years we will not have to invite foreign guru because we will have our own domestic .
optimization of the current tax regime by mandatory introduction of tax reporting on income and expenses.
such meetings contribute not only to acquaintance with high-quality Russian literature, but also to the education of young children in the spirit of patriotism, friendship and tolerance, and the development of spiritual qualities.
Participants received a task in the framework of the competition.	the finalists awarded diploma and souvenirs .	0,67
increasing the number of applications for the purchase of equipment through KazAgroFinance JSC.
in addition, the number of heat-saving materials increased 2.5 times, plastic pipes 1.3 times.
The plan is aimed at fulfilling the tasks and tasks of the agency for the development of public service, taking into account international experience, the department said.
As you know, Kazakhstan is also an active participant of integration associations in the Eurasian space.
In addition, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his message to the people of Kazakhstan noted that "2015 is an anniversary year from the point of view of the inauguration of national history and assessment of today's heights.
Nevertheless, most manufacturers buy milk powder imported for the production of dairy products.
the document also reflects norms on such issues as the entry into force of the law, amendments and amendments to it, its repeal.
personnel of types and branches of troops, military equipment.
However, he said that projects that could not show real effectiveness would be suppressed.
all norms in the agreements will be reflected in the customs code, "he added.
without this, no union can exist.
Recall that Kazkontent is actively participating in the dissemination of information about events as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
According to the Governor's Office, cargo for whitewash is transported by rail, after which it is sent to European countries and Iran by sea.
this would be of great benefit to employment.
results of past elections, support and full participation of Nazarbayev.
according to the results of the competition, the first place in the team competition was taken by a special boarding school for hearing impaired and deaf children of the Almaty region, the second place went to the society of deaf "Kazakhs," and the third place went to a group of workers in the region.
The elder brother of his father, the Nurmukhamed Isakov, was drafted into the army in 1920 or 1921 from the Nososbir region. the elder brother of my father nurmukhamed isakov was drafted to the front of the novosibirsk region .
Other capabilities of the CDP include assessment of the dynamics and forecasting of hazardous natural-anthropogenic and anthropogenic processes of economic activity, as well as space survey by types of natural resources.
Over 16 years, more than 8 thousand children took part in the competition.
according to the new building codes, there should be 200 meters between the road and the residential building.
teachers who took part in the course learn the theoretical basis in the context of 7 modules and choose the benefit for their students, "said D. Zholdasbekov.
After the war, he worked at the Kirov mine.
international observers and a public commission to monitor the republican elections worked well.
milk processing is one of the key areas of the program for expanding processing industries.
in German, the secrets of ancient runes were affected.
The government is carrying out large-scale work on behalf of the head of state to sign memoranda on cooperation between akimats and large enterprises and central state bodies in order to stabilize production processes and develop an effective bilateral partnership.
the area of ​ ​ the production building exceeds 30,000 square meters, the administrative building 3,500 square meters.
no matter how difficult the time is, we are together and moving forward without breaking away from our unity.
P.Pavlopoulos noted that strong and friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Greece are based on a solid basis, and issues of the joint agenda of the two countries can successfully solve only common efforts.
Meeting the requirements of the Constitution. holding of the presidential election is the most appropriate complying the requirements of the constitution .
The delegation of the meeting included M.Shimbayev, M.Begentayev, B.Rtayev.
Pavlodar region presented various exhibits.
Kazakhstanis should make their choice.
the example of China is a vivid example, the silk road is a real and effective project.
To date, the results of the study have been published in Europe.
there are such kiosks in all areas of the city.
As soon as he went to the front to show everything that happened, he provided great assistance to veterans of the Great Patriotic War, who had been associated with the war all their lives.
working groups have been created, one of the areas of which is the transportation of quantitative goods by rail.
During the meeting, the deputy chairman spoke about the legislative activities of the Senate and the active conduct of the inter-parliamentary dialogue.
the rule of law should be mandatory in ensuring justice in society, which will also contribute to business development. the rule of law is a guarantee of justice in a society in which the business can develop .
further - West Kazakhstan regional multidisciplinary children's hospital, the third place - in Karaganda regional clinical children's hospital.
The purpose of the bill is to ensure transparency of the tariff-forming process and the activities of subjects of natural monopolies.
I am grateful that I gave Kazakhstan a bright future.
each room in the museum is decorated with a special taste.
Improving transparency and predictability in subsoil use through the introduction of international standards for reporting on mineral reserves crirsco.
as part of the republican event "We are the descendants of victory," the battle banner will be presented to young people in all educational institutions of the city, and on March 11 there will be a road to the South Kazakhstan region.
according to him, in a modern democratic society, the formation of historical consciousness as an important part of national unity is a mutually exclusive and even competitive process that causes diversity of opinions in society.
Online money transfer services to customer accounts make payments as fast, convenient and efficient as possible and accelerate shippers' ability to ship them.
contracts were the first concrete steps towards strengthening confidence-building measures and reducing the military structure of relations between the union of these states and the People's Republic of China.
agricultural production in the region doubled in three years. during three years , the indicators of output of agricultural products in the region have doubled .
In addition, Abdikalikova met with representatives of the Women's Association of West Kazakhstan region.
The formation of a competitive tourism industry will contribute to the employment of the population, especially rural citizens.
On this issue, the charter was prepared on the basis of the requirements of the articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan on elections and the media.
According to him, in a special report of the commission, the maximum examination of human trafficking was carried out, a chain of compliance with laws and rights is provided.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the interlocutors noted that recently the scale of bilateral exchanges in the field of tourism has been increasing, which is a bridge of friendship and the basis of human relations between the peoples of Kazakhstan and Malaysia.
representatives of state bodies reported on the progress of work to provide social, material and medical assistance to war veterans and rear workers.
According to experts, these elections will go down in the history of the world election process.
Recall that the organizer of the relay campaign "We are the heirs of victory" is the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
However, he made a number of his comments on the document and noted that it should be finalized within 1 month based on the state of today and the prospects for the development of the metropolis.
the forum program includes the most pressing issues of domestic geosafety: expanding resource potential, geophysical technologies, studying the water area.
As part of this project, food supplies are also sent to war veterans from each city where the concert will be organized.
The first reading presents the draft Code of Civil Procedure of the Republic of Kazakhstan with accompanying amendments to the issues of improving civil procedure legislation.
the allocated funds will go to the construction and repair of educational institutions, the cessation of emergency schools and three-shift training, the strengthening of the material and technical base, and the provision of preschool education.
The reception of materials for the competition ended on April 15, on April 20 the winners of the competition were awarded.
In addition, according to representatives of the ministry, large-scale propaganda of the history of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate is one of the ways to preserve stability, peace and harmony in the country, strengthen Kazakhstani patriotism.
N. Yermekbayev called on the participants of the meeting to provide scientific and expert support on the issue of reducing the flood, possible damage, preventing the occurrence of natural disasters and increasing the effectiveness of their forecasting.
Chinese investment can also be directed towards a project on the use of biogas plants engaged in the processing of organic waste.
in addition, the train is equipped with a special movable means for boarding and disembarking passengers.
your domestic cars are produced from our region.
The year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the year of achieving a high level of national history: the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the constitution, the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
This is also one of the best measures that will create a large number of jobs in the country, "the head of state recalled.
our trade and economic relations continued for many years and successfully. we have long and fruitful trade-economic relations .
Recall that the contest "Mereili Recesses" is held annually by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and is aimed at increasing family values ​ ​ and the status of the family.
In addition, orders will be distributed there only to those organizations that have been registered, "said Mr. Asylbekova.
procedure for conducting an investigation by the investigating body in the structure of the Eurasian Economic Commission;
the school of entrepreneurship holds the first preparatory courses for entrepreneurship and special seminars-trainings, as well as practical master classes based on existing enterprises and peasant farms and provides comprehensive support to entrepreneurs, "the statement said.
The leadership of the American university highly appreciated the relations with Kazakhstan and expressed a desire to visit the capital in June this year and take part in the ceremony of completing the training of the first graduates of Nazarbayev University.
In their speeches, Finnish colleagues thanked the leadership of Kazakhstan and wished all the people success and well-being.
this is a time of good intentions and good deeds, care for people in need of help.
these are clean technologies in traditional, alternative energy, "green technologies" in the mining and metallurgical industry, "energy saving technologies of the agro-industrial complex, ecotourism."
During the second session of the meeting, the parties exchanged views on topical issues on the agenda of bilateral relations.
It should be noted that the first of 5 reforms provides for the implementation of economic programs and the formation of a modern, professional, independent state apparatus that efficiently carries out the provision of public services.
The head of state noted that both countries have a plan and a clearly marked work that will bring Kazakh-Chinese relations to a completely new level.
they also visited the homes of two bedding patients, where they were treated.
the number of renovated and newly constructed health facilities reached 66.
"Kazakh Rhapsody" for piano and symphony orchestra.
Participants were awarded certificates of their participation.
the transformation of the agricultural support fund will reduce interest rates for final borrowers, meet the demand of entrepreneurs for microcredit, increase the volume of production, and contribute to the wide distribution of microfinance organizations in rural regions.
Governor of Kyzylorda region k.k.sherbayev, public figure a.aakdauletova, chairman of the Uzbek ethnocultural association a.hamids, student of the school "heir" d.markov congratulated on the opening of the year of the assembly and expressed warm wishes.
you came immediately after my invitation to support us in a difficult period. you took my invitation came to support us in a very difficult time .
The letter of Kazphosphat LLP of Zhambyl region states that the main desire of the six-thousandth labor collective is to confirm confidence in Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The facility is designed to receive 13 thousand people, and at its launch 224 jobs will be created.
In turn, the Russian president drew attention to the main prospects for bilateral cooperation and plans to further deepen integration.
this enterprise in a short period of time gained its place in the market, developing the production of kumys. in a short time you were able to set up production and establish itself in the market .
After the Government of Kazakhstan has identified priority areas for attracting foreign direct investment, the interest of Europeans in this country has grown, "he added.
Last year, 1,533 young people took part in youth practice in the region, he said.
they also monitored elections in Kazakhstan with their foreign counterparts.
we must still move in this direction if we want to preserve civilization, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
ended the war on the Baltic Courland Peninsula.
in other words, it is envisaged to reduce buses and a number of other routes competing with the metro and duplicating its routes.
The main award of a veteran warrior is the Order of the Red Star.
with these funds, a kamaz off-road car 1 unit, a boat with 8 seats 1 unit, a boat with 6 seats 5 units, a motor boat 1 unit, diving equipment were purchased.
Recall, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at an expanded government meeting noted the start of the action "Made in Kazakhstan."
The memorandum, signed as part of the instructions of the head of state, obliges us to move to specific anti-corruption activities.	branch of  nur otan " and the department of kazakhstan agency for civil service affairs and anti-corruption signed this memorandum with the mayor 's office of kurchatov and abay district .
In this regard, the Governor instructed the districts to develop a plan to attract investments in fixed assets according to the second industrialization map.
I only returned home in 1964, when I became an officer and lived in this area for 25 years.
the previously developed concept has survived to this day, and last year the zoo totaled 420 thousand people.
Andrian Yelemesov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Italy, who spoke at the ceremony, is an honorary consul in the friuli-venice-giulia region, who allocated financial resources to the mayor of the city of trieste, as well as for the restoration of the obelisk for the invaluable assistance provided during the installation of this obelisk. Honorary consul in the bellinello and piedmont zone e. thanked bigotti.
We therefore commend those who launched and organized the initiative.
Governor's Office of the city concluded a memorandum with the development fund, thanks to which Almaty business can receive additional credit resources. mayor 's office concluded a memorandum with the fund " damu " on which almaty business will get an access to more loans .
To participate in festive processions in the capital and cities of Moscow dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory, 61 million tenge is provided in the republican budget to pay the expenses of participants and disabled people of the Second World War, as well as accompanying persons for travel, accommodation and meals.
and improving cooperation in the investigation of criminal cases related to religious extremism and terrorism, including those related to the financing of terrorist activities.
The analysis also revealed the existence of certain issues and trends on the part of authorized state bodies requiring appropriate measures related to the protection of the rights of minors.
the bright way for the Kazakh people - the way to the future "Nursultan Abishevich noted that in the regions it is necessary to work out the issue of creating new industrial zones aimed at developing the production of small and medium-sized businesses and attracting additional investments.
Only earlier this month an agreement was signed regarding the design and construction of equipment supplies.
The festival participants will take part in seminars on culture and tolerance, as well as will take part in master classes of leading artists and cultural figures.
When discussing issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation, the parties paid special attention to contacts between deputy groups, relevant committees, parliaments of the two countries as a whole.
People with production, production and technical products in Kazakhstan can take part in the competition, "N. Altaev said.
According to him, the president today creates great opportunities for the development of entrepreneurship in the country.
from the moment the goods enter the territory of Kazakhstan for tax purposes until their sale.
as a result, corruption in the judicial system would be eliminated.
As noted in the NPP, the Chamber conducted an audit of legislation on norms that negatively affect business development.
Also, the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region and backbone enterprises have concluded memoranda to preserve jobs and stabilize production processes.
Special award of akim of akmola region awarded sculpture, dreamer and erlan dauletovich.
Sultanov promised to meet with representatives of second-level banks and discuss the conditions for lending to the project.
It marked the life path and feat of our national hero on the battlefield.
the Ministry of Defense, the regional command provided the results to the personnel on tactical, state-legal training and psychological testing of officers and sergeants.
As part of the event, together with the Governor's Office of the region, the veterans of the Great Patriotic War were honored, gifts were presented on behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Recall that the project was developed by the Mayor's Office of Almaty together with the program "Regular transport of the city of Almaty" in order to improve the work of public transport.
moreover, holding early presidential elections will prevent compliance with parliamentary elections, thereby ensuring a high-quality election campaign and domestic political stability, "said J. Aliyev.
Recall that the Steam Development Program organized a photo exhibition, which became popular on the social network in July-August.
a significant part of investments in the development of the manufacturing industry is 25.4% or 8684.4 million tenge - production of non-metallic mineral products, 16.6% or 5670.5 million tenge - production of coke and oil refining products.
In June of this year, the winners of the competition will take part in the competition, which will be held on the scale of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the legal informatization of citizens is facilitated by the information and legal web system "justice" and the legal information service.
The main goal of such competitions is to stimulate the creative, cognitive, research activity of students, to form respect for the history of youth, "said the executive director of the Head of State Library.
In order to implement the program, attention should be paid to market demand. in order the program is implemented successfully and increase advantages , it is necessary to pay special attention to market demand and the level of competition .
The event, which takes place today, is dedicated to the celebration of this holiday.
thirdly, it is necessary to create conditions for further development, fourthly, to continue work on entering 30 developed countries, "said N. Nazarbayev.
this program is officially presented by the authoritative UN agency unodc as an effective tool for the primary prevention of chemical and psychological dependence.
In particular, the graduation ceremony of regular graduates of pupils educated in the specialty "sniper" has recently taken place.
During the event, the symphony orchestra of the Kazakh National University of Arts presented famous crust works.
and in the Semipalatinsk center for the rehabilitation of pensioners, on behalf of the commander of the regional command "east," the deputy commander for educational and socio-legal work, Colonel Mukataev and Major General of the reserve Alexander Martynov congratulated the war veterans and home front workers.
all veterans and participants of the Great Patriotic War are supported in the armed forces and do not ignore them.
During the meeting, the head of the region noted that by presidential decree, two dead citizens were awarded the Aybyn Order for courage.
To accommodate the business incubator, an administrative building with a total area of ​ ​ 3000 square meters was obtained from the local budget. the office building with the production facility with a total area of 3,000 sq.m has been bought at the expense of the local budget in order to accommodate the business incubator .
the meaning was the khan's desire to be honest.
this required additional financial resources, so Abay LLP decided to use the support of Kazagrofinance JSC.
According to the results of three stages, the best crews will be awarded medals, and the winners in the team competition will receive the First Place Cup.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Prosecutor General's Office of Hungary.
today the situation in the regional food market is stable, there is no shortage of socially significant goods and demand for certain products.
wheat (94.3 per cent of the total grain allocated to food) is the main food crop.
I myself am a designer, developing design programs, frankly, I liked the idea of ​ ​ the contest "your voice is your future."
we have very weak urbanization.
from 7-00 in the morning vote began.
All children participating in the competition were presented with memorable gifts and sweet gifts.
The heads of state discussed the results of the Minsk meeting to resolve the Ukrainian crisis.
The audience got acquainted with the instructions of the president and followed the implementation of 7 priority areas.
According to him, the model of Kazakhstan's interethnic tolerance and social harmony aroused interest among the conference participants.
increasing competitiveness of Kazakhstan's business in conditions of high market competition. there was the necessity to increase the competitiveness of kazakhstan 's business in the face of fierce market competition , it was necessary to reduce the degree of the state regulation of individual business processes .
the building used under the Sultan's mazar as a military post of khans is still preserved. there 's a building near the mausoleum of hazrat sultan , now it 's occupied by the city treasury , also there is a building used as headquarters of the tsarist military garrison .
The championship was organized in order to coordinate better experience and professional skills through the organization and holding of professional skills competitions to increase the prestige of working specialties, the development of professional and technical education.
this can be explained by the need to implement investment programmes. this is a definite need to service the debt of execution of investment programs
The retreat was organized on the eve of the World Championships in ski jumping and cross-country skiing among juniors from February 1 to 8 in Almaty, the Mayor's Office reported.
this meeting f.in. continuation of the conversation held within the official visit of Steinmeier to Kazakhstan last November.
the film describes that for the fate of the individual and the whole collective, the warring parties have to become allies, so the correctness of finding a way to reconciliation and learn a positive lesson from history.
In accordance with the theme of the exhibition EXPO-2017 "Energy of the Future," the participants of the competition were invited to create an architectural project of an environmentally properly thought out residential quarter with detailing of one building included in the residential complex.
Over the past 2 years, the country has introduced a GPS system for 240 cars, which reduced the length of travel to 5.3%.
Including 10 years of the monograph "Abai Literary Environment" studied and published in 2008.
Up to 20 SMB support mechanisms will be expanded and expanded.	during the meeting , the speaker noted that kazakhstani sme support tools will be expanded up to 20 .	0,67
and through the electronic store you can purchase goods with standard requirements.
In August 1942 he went to the front.
According to the chairman of the committee on legislation and judicial reform, who made a report on this issue, marat Sarsembayev is a well-known citizen who has devoted more than 30 years to scientific and pedagogical activities, who has gained extensive experience in the field of public service.
2015 Voters included in the lists received ballots as of 26:00 hours on April 18, 89.69% said M.Sarsembayev.
At the end of the evening, the musicians of the military orchestra handed flowers for each girl and greeting cards on behalf of the military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main efforts of all officials should focus on organizing and conducting combat training, the main component of which is the profession of defender of the fatherland. the main effort of all officers should be directed to the organization and holding of the military training , which is the main component of a difficult profession of a defender of the fatherland .
Following the meeting, the parties agreed on the further development of cooperation in the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
according to him, the contest will first of all take into account the opinions and choice of the general public.
According to the regional Governor's Office, representatives of all nationalities "the language of the other - desire one, the person of the other - heart one" on this day were found in the central square.
According to the information and analytical system, since January 1, 2015, more than 7 thousand 200 farms are engaged in breeding Kazakh squirrels in the republic, in which there are 217 thousand 930 heads.
Recall that in the framework of the action "Respect for Victory" the victory relay is held as part of the national teams and units located in the regions of the country.
The International Organization for the Development of Turkic Culture and Art has become traditional for annual concert evenings dedicated to the March holiday.
therefore, buses are very efficient economically along with environmentally friendly ones.
This year, historical fate will be a vivid embodiment of the unity of the people.	this year should brightly demonstrate the people knitted together by general historical destiny .	0,67
For example, both professional athletes and children can use the new facility for free.	so , children also can use the capabilities of the database along with professional sportsmen free .	0,67
It should be noted that the inauguration of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took place in the capital today.	however , nazarbayev noted that the investment justice and the international arbitration center should create one of the most attractive in the world business climate .	0,67
According to the memorandum, the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region undertakes to provide a land plot necessary for construction, provide it with engineering infrastructure, monitor the development and correction of design estimates.	the governor 's office should provide land for housing , ensure its engineering infrastructure , oversee the development and adjustment of design and estimate documentation .	0,67
It is important that education is seen as an economic investment in human capital and a socio-economic platform for the development of the country.
still writes articles, is engaged in sports, lives informally.
loan at 9.5% per annum (effective annual interest rate - no more than 10.2%).
a caravan known as the Silk Road passes through the territory of Kazakhstan, and this direction has had a historical impact on the development of trade directions in the Eurasian region. since ancient times , a significant part of the caravan trade route , known as the great silk road , which had a historic impact on the development of trade routes of eurasia , was passed through the territory of present-day kazakhstan .
among those who received new ranks are representatives of the National Security Committee, the police and the Ministry of Justice.
The Committee on Payment of Medical Services of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan annually places a state order for the provision of GOBMP in order to ensure uninterrupted medical care for citizens.
with the help of an automated information system to the committee: improving the safety and quality of imported products and goods; effective quality control of imported products; improving the quality of public consumer protection services; maintaining a single database of market participants; Integration with information systems of other public authorities. with the help of an automated information system , the committee will be able to : improve the safety and quality of imported products and goods ; effectively monitor the quality of imported products ; improve the quality of public services in the field of consumer protection ; maintain a single database of market participants ; integrate with information systems of other government agencies .
look - the best blogger
it must be free to study in our schools so that young people, the future generation, know. it should be taught at schools to young people that the future generation knows the history .
This year, out of 48 socio-cultural facilities, 25 schools, 12 in health care, 3 in the field of culture, etc.
in this essay, along with the leadership qualities of the great khan, the human essence, dignity, politics, mind, heroism of courage are comprehensively revealed.
During the reporting period, zero and minimum irrigation technologies were introduced on an area of ​ ​ 24.0 thousand hectares (2013 - 23.0), drip and rain irrigation on an area of ​ ​ 4986 hectares.
such visits are maintained by adults and children.
So, for example, the leadership of the MP "Fire and emergency rescue work" of the Kyzylorda region, knowing about the condition of the worker of the rear of the pinelope panatayevna kafatridi, came to congratulate on the 70th anniversary of the victory.
water pumping works are carried out there.
a vivid example of this is our public reception rooms.
within the framework of this direction, many reforms were announced that contribute to the effective implementation of industrial policy.
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the need to revise the principles for promoting the g-global communication platform.
Your lives and ways are a vivid example of youth! "- said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
the Caspian summit will be attended by the heads of five Caspian countries - Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Iran and Turkmenistan.
For the purchase of more than 1000 units of various equipment and equipment worth more than 7.3 billion tenge, applications from farmers have already been received for consideration by the company.
so that every voter can exercise this right.
Kazakh and foreign scientists discussed the experience of developing ethical standards in scientific activities.
in independent Kazakhstan, engineering troops have existed since the creation of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
As it became known during the press conference, since the beginning of the year, 112 applicants have been allocated a land plot for individual housing construction in the region.
For the first time, an educational program was developed in the fields of oil and gas production and transportation.
Currently, 2,436 houses have been flooded, as a result of pumping water from the water intake, 2,288 houses have left. at the moment thanks to pumping and drainage of melt water from the flooded areas , the water is gone from 2,288 homes .
In turn, the meeting participants noted the importance of the proposed issue and the need for a single program proposed by the academy, the report said.
the conference ended with a festive concert with the participation of gifted children "ecomed" and their parents, as well as representatives of art and culture of Kazakhstan.
The bill is aimed at creating equal conditions with society for people with disabilities, creating an environment for expressing their opinions. the draft law is proposed to introduce the rules aimed at the creating the equal conditions for the realization of the rights to the invalids to express their opinions .
According to the Kazakh Federation, as part of the delegation, the deputy head of the main department of the fire service, Colonel Vyacheslav Petrovich, the deputy head of the main department of the Ministry of Emergencies of the Russian Federation for the Omsk region for combating torment and protection, monitoring and defense - the head of the civil defense department, Colonel Andreev Andrei Anatolyevich.
Provision of free hospital management services to private investors.
the enterprises have a laboratory for quality control of products, a bookbinding workshop, at which time the construction of a workshop for storing mercury-containing lamps is nearing completion.
such an organized structure of the court does not meet international standards and is extremely inconvenient.
The amount of scholarships depends on our budget.
All citizens residing in the relevant foreign State or on a long-term foreign business trip and holding valid passports of the Republic are included in polling stations at missions of the Republic of Kazakhstan in foreign countries.
The draft agenda for the plenary session also contains a bill ratifying the Convention against Discrimination in Education.
this is the upbringing and upbringing of the younger generation based on the creative heritage of the great brother.
The parties noted the high importance of the meeting on the way to the further development of existing relations, which in the future will allow achieving significant results in the new legal development of Kazakhstan.
its full formation will diversify business in this area, will contribute to reducing the cost of services for the population, taking into account the growing competitiveness of enterprises in the single Eurasian service market, "the publication says.
our zoo has potential, on which side, in the field of science, training, entertainment.
Significant work has already been done in this direction and will continue in the future, "said the head of the city.
only winners, prize-winners and participants of the regional stage of the republican competition of scientific projects in general education subjects take part in the competition.
A. Daulbaev informed the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia about the main areas of activity of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan, noting that the expansion of international legal cooperation in both bilateral and multilateral format is one of the key components of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has ratified many agreements in the field of law enforcement, the concept of legal policy for 2010-2020 is being implemented in the country, aimed at improving the regulatory framework and practical measures of a human scale.
In January-February 2015, enterprises and institutions of the region mastered investments in fixed assets for 29.6 billion tenge, the report said.
including students and the military, the department of internal policy of the region reported.
According to the results of the presidential election on December 4, 2005, the head of state won 91.15% of the vote.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, more than 5 thousand people took part in the mass race.
now our task is to discuss these issues and agree.
New Zealanders also spoke about the main events of Kazakhstan's domestic and foreign policy, including the new nұrly zhol economic policy.
the exhibition is held by the regional department of agriculture and takes place for two days.
During the conversation with the Chinese leader after the ceremony, the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Chinese bilateral relations, planned visits at the highest level were discussed.
it should be noted that these requirements are taken into account in the technical regulation of the Customs Union "On the safety of wheeled vehicles."
According to the press service of the meeting, this document provides for robotization of production, computer design, the production of new iron processing systems, machine tools and tools based on the interaction of machine builders of the two states.
According to the National Chamber, the signing of the agreement by two large structures is a logical continuation of cooperation, which operates within the framework of the memorandum of understanding and cooperation concluded last year.
holding this conference in holy Turkestan and the topic under discussion will certainly serve as an example for studying the rich history of Kazakh statehood, "the congratulation says.
reduction of jubilees and expenditure budget. "
As Seitsultan Ayimbetov noted, Switzerland is one of the most reliable partners of Kazakhstan.
the election results came to a forecast even before the start of the election campaign. the results were quite predictable .
In his congratulations, the president of the Almaty futsal club "kairat" K. expressed confidence that the success of the club in the European arena will be an excellent gift for all compatriots.
the document contains a set of measures aimed at increasing the investment attractiveness and competitiveness of light industry.
In addition, the main result of the meeting was an agreement on the preparation of innovative programs for teaching the Kazakh language and the preparation of textbooks for teaching in Omsk schools.
Today, the air defense forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan have certified deputy battalion commanders and all officers serving in positions equivalent to them.
for example, fertility has increased, overall mortality has decreased, lungs have been obtained, and good indicators have been achieved to prevent maternal and infant mortality.
According to the Ministry of Defense, certification determines the compliance of military personnel with their positions and the prospects for their further use in the service, the feasibility of extending the service life of military personnel under the contract, and the direction of improving the training (retraining) of military personnel.
In general, within the framework of the memorandum, the parties intend to cooperate in various areas.
all other issues of an interstate and intergovernmental nature are resolved within the framework of permanent relations, "the head of state said.
when the law enters into full force, some departments will begin to issue their regulatory acts.
certification is constantly carried out in the Kazakh army.
n. As muhambetalin noted, with this event, cultural workers wanted to show that the cultural concept determines the guidelines for the development of Kazakhstan as a whole.
The head of state stressed that there is an important task related to the transformation of the educational institution into a university of technical studies.
there, energy savings will be from 30 to 45% per year, "he said at a seminar on energy efficiency in the capital.
The main feature of the competition is that the pursuit is not limited to assessing the appearance of girls, attracts attention the inner mental beauty of gentle people, their professionalism and high responsibility.
In general, according to the head of state, the first five-year plan of industrialization gave the experience of a successful anti-crisis response to the negatives of the global economy.
I think that the participation of students, scientists and kha members in today's event is very important, because not all of them are indifferent to the strategic directions of Kazakhstan's development and innovations, "said Shavkat Ismailov, a seven-time member of the Kyrgyz ethnocultural association Kyrgyzstan - Capital.
The country program will allow Kazakhstan to join a number of declarations and proposals to Ayd, take part in the work of its structural units, the official website of the Prime Minister reported.
During the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, the Ministry of Energy is implementing a project for the development of a modern gas chemical complex in the Atyrau region.
the first stage is the construction of additional feeding facilities for 4,000 cattle.
however, the Thai oil exploration and production company ptt exploration and production is interested in studying Kazakhstan's oil and gas fields.
Senior officials were very interested in the weapons and military equipment provided to them.
Kazakh servicemen participate in steam missions.
Other countries are currently interested in participating in the work of the union.
During the meeting of the board, concrete steps were developed to further improve the public service, ensure quality, and monitor order.
Nursultan Nazarbayev's annual appeal to the people will be one of the significant events in the country. the annual address of the president to the nation of kazakhstan is always a major event in the public life of the country .
Kazakhstan's policy in the areas of disarmament and non-proliferation is determined by the country's foreign policy, which is based on its commitment to international security, the development of cooperation between states, and the enhancement of the authority of international organizations in resolving global problems and conflicts. the policy of kazakhstan in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of mass destruction weapons is determined by the foreign policy of our country .
the meeting was held in the form of a conversation with older generations of youth.
In our region, events dedicated to this anniversary date are held throughout the year.
The star festival has long contributed to the adaptation of citizens and the formation of personalities of small algae.
joining the Eurasian Economic Union, the state will fully begin the implementation of the Eurasian project.
Today, domestic health organizations have advanced technologies necessary for the recovery of a patient whose disease was detected at an early stage, "he said.
According to the calculations of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, these measures can be applied in the manufacturing industry, mechanical engineering, food industry, etc.
upon completion of the construction of the bypass road, the construction of service facilities is provided in the same volume.
citizens who understand their country and are responsible for it, who fully understand their attitude to the future of the state, came to the polls. today the elections were attended by those people who are responsible for their country and feel their belonging to the future of his country .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that to strengthen the world authority of Singapore, its formation as a leading country in Asia, he made great efforts and thereby left an inexhaustible legacy.
We all volunteered, "the veteran recalls.
we have always been bound by many points.
Also during the visit, the Kazakh ambassador met with the leadership of one of the specialized medical centers - the oncological center named after M.D. Anderson.
The event was attended by more than 80 people.
Relevant analysis of these indicators is currently being carried out by interested State bodies and organizations.
necessary stocks of construction materials and other items, special equipment necessary to prevent the dam from breaking through in hazardous areas.
During the working trip, the head of the region entrusted the heads of mines with the responsibility of exploring the flanks of Maleevsky deposits.
To this end, M. Yesenbaev, etc. discussed draft bilateral agreements in the criminal legal sphere, in particular, on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases, on the transfer and return of convicts.
for the victory in Poltava, he was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union.
A total of 1,052,3 million tenge was allocated, and 631.6 million tenge was allocated for a boarding school for 100 places in the village of Zhangala, Zhangalinsky district.
the measures taken will reduce the cost of production, improve the quality and increase the competitiveness of agricultural products.
from the arrival of the first echelon until today, a train consisting of more than 500 wagons and about 900 military personnel arrived in the capital to participate in the parade of troops.
caring for the young generation of Kazakhstan is not just a word - it is the truth, "he said.
The head of the region congratulated the audience on the March holiday and expressed warm condolences.
Mayor of Almaty focused on the results of the program of modernization and development of the green spaces fund in the city.
In total, 8,616 apartments with a total area of 505.3 thousand square meters worth 78.7 billion tenge will be built and purchased this year.
then any CIS state that is not a member of the customs union for the first time applies to the Eurasian Economic Commission for the removal of technical barriers to mutual trade in relation to certain types of products.
for the first time this year, the gross regional product will exceed 8 trillion tenge, which is 6.3% more than last year.
jam coverage is one aspect of the preparation for the Expo.
business plans will be created here, state support measures will be explained and the necessary consultations will be given on the work necessary to receive funds from any sources.	here , existing and potential entrepreneurs get help in preparation of business plans , as well as give an explanation of the measures of state support , provide support in obtaining funding , etc .	0,68
According to the deputy director, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs receives a lot of information about the shortage of information support.	according to the director 's words , people send many questions regarding the lack of information to the nce .	0,68
this achievement was achieved through individual housing construction.	new housing supply made 161,7 thousand sq.m that is provided due to individual housing construction .	0,68
As follows from the message, in order to implement the priority directions of the message of the head of state, the state creates in the country maximum conditions for doing business with domestic entrepreneurs, and also considers the necessary opportunities for international investors.	in order to achieve the priority aims of the address the state carries out active measures for extremely comfortable doing business for local entrepreneurs and international investors .	0,68
but only to those who say that I work, "said the head of state.
According to Colonel Kulshimbayev, large-scale preparatory events were held in Astana on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the great victory on behalf of the Head of State.
gas supply to all settlements is one of the tasks assigned by the head of state.
creation of favorable conditions for practical qualification, training and selection.
During the signing, B.Saparbayev noted that the government and local executive bodies will provide comprehensive support for business development.
Athletes who took first places in the competition will take part in the World Cup, which will be held in April in Moscow.
Of course, as part of a partnership with the Russians, we will promote our conditions, "said A. Balushkin.
in all public receptions, deputies of the Majilis are responsible for topical issues of the population.
unmanned aerial vehicles do not additionally require infrastructure in the form of an airport and gas stations, and are practically not noticed on ground radars.
Recall that the launch of spacecraft No. 2 "resource-p" is scheduled for 21 hour 55 minutes Moscow time on December 26, 2014.
During the meeting of the bureau, proposals were made on the agenda of the plenary session of the Chamber on February 5, 2015.
At the same time, he noted that the joint-stock company "Food Corporation" finances spring field work still on the basis of guarantees of the social entrepreneurship corporation.
About 3 thousand of them got the opportunity to perform on the big stage.
According to him, the history of Kazakhs is not only the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, but also the deep roots of its history and traditions.
you are now given the opportunity to gather the knowledge you need for your entire life. now you have the opportunity to accumulate knowledge on the rest of your lives .
In particular, he spoke about the implementation of a number of major projects planned in terms of infrastructure development.
publication in the media of the results of the opinion poll, forecast of the election results, other studies related to the election, within five days preceding the voting day and on voting day.
however, the allocated budgetary resources do not allow the creation of the necessary official housing stock of the Ministry of Defense as soon as possible.
A member of the CIS mission observers took part in a regional seminar on preparations for the extraordinary presidential elections in Kokshetau. the members of the cis observation mission in kokshetau participated in the work of the zonal seminar on organizational support of early elections of the president of the republic of kazakhstan .
these two events cannot be ignored, the report said.
it will provide an expert assessment of the formation and preparation of world professional standards of working specialties in industry and service.
According to information, in addition to standard services, passengers of merchant cars were provided with sanitary and hygienic services, tea, children's sets, a new number of publications, and an expanded menu of the restaurant car.
now online in your account you can share interesting news on popular social networks.
On April 6, the official opening ceremony of the festival will be held in the Russian drama theater of South Kazakhstan region.
The purpose of today's meeting is to consider various methods for assessing corruption. the main purpose of today 's training is to consider different methodologies and ways to measure corruption .
winners will have the opportunity to take part in a seminar on culture and tolerance, master classes with the participation of leading figures of culture and art of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as show their performances at a gala concert within the framework of the festival.
Speaking about the existing potential of bilateral cooperation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted that in recent years he is satisfied with the pace of development of cooperation between the capital and Caracas.
the current situation requires our compactness and the mobilization of all forces.
these are primarily memoranda that give priority to domestic producers in the quasi-public sector.	we still can 't say how the competitiveness of kazakhstan 's business will be affected ,  - r.oshakbayev said .
The consul general in New York spoke about the procedures for obtaining a 5-year visa.
According to the Ministry of Defense, at a solemn event led by a monument of eternal memory to soldiers who died in the Great Patriotic War, each pupil took the oath of fair service to his homeland and joined the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
however, the current state of transport infrastructure does not make full use of its potential in the region.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, members of parliament, representatives of interested ministries and departments took part in the event initiated by the Senate of Parliament.
According to him, now the entrepreneur has to apply for the opening of the enterprise.
8 major projects are being implemented in the Shymkent Trade and Logistics Center.
A feature of the event was that each people presented their literature in their native language, read poetry in Polish, sang in Tatar, played music in Azerbaijani, Tatar and Russian, the Akmola Media Center press center at the Akmola region's internal policy department reported.
The head of state noted that the results of the state's systemic policy for the development of regions can be seen throughout the country.
the presidential prize consisted of a New Year's table and a festive greeting on behalf of the head of state.
According to the Minister, the enterprises of the first five-year plan of industrialization are more resistant to external influences than others.
According to representatives of the Department of State Revenue of the Mangistau Region, the event has been held since February 26 of this year in all departments of district departments with the aim of promoting such issues as "payment of taxes," increasing "tax literacy" among the population, and increasing the tax culture of taxpayers.
bloggers often wrote publications about their places of stay.
Kazakhstan retained its independence, its achievement of the seventies pleases Turkey.
The President of Kazakhstan has put forward the idea of an eternal country, this is the main one of Kazakhstan's values.
this council will deal with the use of budget funds, the organization of public control over the implementation of decisions made, the policy of education and the management of universities.
we have no comment on how to handle their loans.
during this event, v. Nuryshev noted that the idea of ​ ​ creating thematic halls in the Shu secretariat was implemented by the Kazakh side and the opening of the Astana hall demonstrated, firstly, the cultural identity and wealth of Kazakh art.
the potential of this interaction allows you to survive any difficulties.
If they are implemented, it will be possible to form a cooperative list in practice, develop import substitution in certain parts of light industry, and master new technologies.
The document was prepared on the basis of the analysis conducted by the ECE Industrial Policy Department of the state of the modern and development of the industrial industry in the member countries of the Union.
According to Akmola Media Center, Rinat Shakuanov, Chairman of the Bulandy District Court, was awarded a certificate for third place signed by the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we put on beautiful national costumes without surprise and went to visit each other.	kazakhstan is a multiethnic country , where around 130 ethnic groups live in peace and harmony .	0,68
The heads of state highly appreciated the results of the visit and once again noted the need to effectively use the trade and economic potential and the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway.
during the discussion of the bill, it became necessary to amend the bill approved by the meeting, taking into account the comments and proposals of the standing committees of the Senate.
The sphere of the industrial zone is defined.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Almaty region spoke about the work of this institute, which he heads, and made a large-scale report.
Therefore, today's flight towards Moscow is a great joy for residents, "said the head of the region.
all of them will be discussed during our visit to Germany and during meetings determined by the program of the delegation, "said Dariga Nazarbayeva.
Since criminals constantly improve their activity, we must prevent threats in the context of international and mutual relations, "said A. Kravchenko.
the voting at this polling station on behalf of international experts is monitored by a Russian State Duma deputy, a former famous boxer Nikolai Valuev.
we explained it in the concept and adopted it this year.
under the terms of the agreement, the project will be financed by the Swiss Development and Cooperation Authority, created from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The main directions of improving migration policy and reaching the population can be: attracting labor migration and foreign labor to the country, improving ethnic migration and regulatory measures in this direction, integrating and adapting Oralmans, as well as employing people with disabilities, "said Dr. Argandykov.
Recall that at the XXII session, the President noted that the chairman of the Bulgarian national-cultural association Oleg smoky and love on behalf of republican ethnocultural associations will be appointed to the posts of deputy chairmen of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Earlier, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan expressed concern about the problems of domestic participants and enterprises importing "sanctioned" products by road transit through Russia.
Water-saving technologies on an area of ​ ​ 9.5 thousand hectares will also be placed in the region, and drip irrigation will be brought to 1 thousand 100 hectares of land.
it was a fierce battle, "the veteran shared.
The event was organized by the Kokshetau Museum.
they also note the high level of preparations for the elections.
the initial stage of any military conflict will be the most difficult.
such plants will be built in remote settlements, on the islands.
Shkeev reported on the current activities of the fund and the progress in the implementation of the main programs, as well as plans for the upcoming period. u.shukeyev reported on the current activities of the fund , on the implementation of key programs and plans for the coming period .
As part of the business trip, representatives of the State Department met with the Deputy Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan, Major General Talgat Mukhtar.
At the presentation in the regional library, a five-volume scientific collection was added to the scientist's works.	the five-volume edition is a result of work the long service which includes monograph  literature sphere of abay . "
During the meeting, the chairmen of the local courts reported on the preparations for the celebration of these anniversary dates.
As part of the action, residents and guests of the city were asked quiz questions, as well as a story.
Saudi Arabia also intends to cooperate with Kazakhstan in the development of petrochemistry.
At the end of the meeting, Mr. Abdykalikova congratulated those present on the upcoming Independence Day, wished everyone peace and well-being, success for the benefit of our Motherland.
in this regard, he expressed the view that the funds allocated to increase liquidity in the national currency positively affect the stability of the entire banking sector.
property tax rates for tenants by subsequent redemption of the apartment will be reduced to 0.25%. tax rate will be reduced sevenfold ( to 0.25 % ) for those who received the rental housing .
On behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, the Senator conveyed a greeting to the Secretary General of the World Assembly for the Rapprochement of Islamic Madhabists.
According to the media center of Akmola, the event was organized with the aim of creating an ice town.
the deputy spoke about early elections.
members of the Central Election Commission agreed with the arguments and voted in favor of the adoption of the relevant amendments.
According to him, repairs and adjustment of the roadway are being carried out in all places.
in your region, festive events will begin nine days before the main holiday. the celebration begins in nine days prior to the main holiday in your region .
It is worth noting that on average the volume of investments from Singapore to Kazakhstan has increased significantly.
we never had industrialization, we were raw materials for the Soviet Union. industrialization is not just a tool of the economy , but an important factor in the development of the state , " nursultan nazarbayev added .
Ivan Vasilievich spoke about the days of the lagging front, interesting historical data about military partnership in the middle of the front and the manifestation of brotherhood.
As a result, the villagers will be provided with high-quality and affordable medical services, "said the head of the region, Erik Sultanov.
Kazakhstan occupies an important place in Mongolia's foreign policy.	the kazakh parliamentarians informed the mongolian colleagues about the new economic policy of kazakhstan  nurly zhol , " about the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate , and about a number of foreign policy issues .
At the same time, it should be noted that in such regions of Kazakhstan as Aktobe, Atyrau, western Kazakhstan and Mangystau, the elections ended at 21-00 o'clock due to the peculiarities of time.
I think we will achieve this, because it is mutually beneficial.
You all supported the initiative of the head of state, as a result of which many of your peers now work in rural areas under this program.
After the flash mob, a concert of Kazakhstan pop stars took place and a festive fireworks were held.
According to the director of the Azhar garment factory hamidollah yerzhanov, the specialists of the enterprise will go around the areas and acquire the clothes of war veterans.
5 industrial reform, designated by the head of state at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party, is the main industrialization program.
The solemn meeting ended with a festive concert.
Ukraine, Russia and Europe.
The plan in this direction provides for the preservation of historical and cultural heritage, their reconstruction, preliminary preparation and organization, scientific and analytical work, the organization of cultural, socio-political events and information and organizational work abroad.
Thanks to medical trains, residents of remote stations and travels undergo the necessary diagnostic examinations, are treated by highly qualified specialists of the Railway Hospitals of Disaster Medicine JSC of the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the initiative to create a center for supporting entrepreneurs was jointly launched by the government and the Ministry of National Economy.
The implementation of the program involves, first of all, reducing state participation in the economy and strengthening its foundations by increasing the share of the private sector.
All decisions of the CEC were published on a special website late, "the mission observers said in a report.
or, if the applicant must have a full foreign education.
we know how difficult it is to accept so many people, and thank you very much for organizing the elections, "said a.scholnik.
It is worth noting that the law provides for standards aimed at improving the speed and convenience of consideration of court cases for participants in trials.
This week, permission was received to begin construction and design work began, "D. Brashev said at a briefing in the Central Communications Service.
Therefore, in order not to aggravate the situation, the akimat will take a number of measures this year.
The event was organized in Friuli-Venetian-Julian art together with the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Italy and the Honorary Consulate of Kazakhstan.
The CIS international action, which takes place under the patronage of the Speaker of the Federation Council of the Russian Federation Valentina Matvienko, started on March 11 in Minsk.	according to the press service of the majilis , the ipa cis international campaign carried out under the auspices of federation council speaker valentina matviyenko , was launched on march 11 in minsk .	0,68
Heads of city-forming enterprises of Karaganda region, as well as students, teachers and scientists of Karaganda State Technical University wrote a letter asking to take part in the upcoming presidential elections of the head of state.	labor collectives and members of associations , health sphere professionals , representatives of the education sector , as well as residents of various regions of the country appeal with a request to nursultan nazarbayev to take part in the upcoming presidential elections .	0,68
Under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," 6 educational facilities were overhauled, 2 outpatient clinics were commissioned, 3 schools with 240 seats were built, and 4 public order supervision facilities were planned.
The President of the Senate informed about preparations for the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, noting that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to participation in the religious forum of the General Secretary of the Assembly of the World Rapprochement of Islamic Madhabists Ayatollah Mohsen Araki.
After graduation, graduates receive support before attracting investment and employment.
Currently, we are coordinating this issue with the councils of regional veterans, since the rest should be covered, "said R. fodder.
The head of state noted the need to modernize healthcare, despite the issue of budget reduction.	the kazakh leader focused healthcare modernization should be continued despite budget limit .	0,68
Young activists visited the house of the veteran warrior Nurzia Bektemir, who survived the war years.	the young activists visited the home of veteran nurziya bektemirov that had come through all hardships of war .	0,68
Modernization of recruitment procedures for the civil service.	1 . reforming recruitment to the civil service .	0,68
According to him, the need for the specialties indicated on the labor market could be influenza.	at the same time , the necessity will be determined for those specialties that are in demand in the labor market .	0,68
for fruitful cooperation in the implementation of the state program, letters of thanks were awarded to individual entrepreneurs and organizations of the city.	as the  akmola media ortalygy " informed individual entrepreneurs and organizations of the city were awarded letters of thanks for the fruitful cooperation in the implementation of state programs .
According to him, this seminar is devoted to the actions of observers on voting day.
It is worth noting that there are currently 3,519 orphans and children left without parental care in East Kazakhstan region.
Veterans of the Second World War enjoyed the concert program, received congratulations and wishes from students.
the competition was attended by organizations of education of Pavlodar, Aksu, Ekibastuz cities and Bayanaul, Zhelezinsky, Irtysh, Oilish, Uspensky districts.
In addition, the Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber said that Kazakhstan and China as a whole show great interest in the economy of the EAEU.
among them are expert structures such as the Rand Corporation (5th place), the American Center for Strategic and International Studies - csis (11th place), the British Research Center for Energy Security - eucers (18th place).
defense enterprises were relocated to Kazakhstan, about 500 enterprises were built.
especially in the field of entrepreneurship, where many of them have great opportunities.
To create the most favorable conditions for them (when getting acquainted with the list of voters and on the day of voting), the CEC of Kazakhstan appealed to the akimats with a request to provide the polling stations with tools (special ramps, pens, etc.) for unhindered access for people with disabilities.
Nevertheless, individuals and legal entities providing services to a candidate in connection with the conduct of pre-election campaigning, in accordance with paragraph 7 of article 28 of the constitutional law, must have written consent to accept these services.
In connection with this holiday, representatives of the Governor's Office of the city and the city maslikhat congratulate the Nurman Rakha grandmother on the holiday and present gifts.
Deputy Head of the Department - Chairman of the Disciplinary Council K. Zhapakov in his welcoming speech emphasized the importance of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan as a public institution in the formation of Kazakhstani patriotism, spiritual harmony, national unity, a sense of peace and tolerance.
winners and prize-winners of olympiads were awarded diplomas and valuable prizes, and also received grants for training in a number of universities.
viewers watched the presented photographs with great interest, many said that they were coming to Kazakhstan.
The letter from the thousands team of the group of companies and contracting organizations, numbering thousands of people, emphasizes that Kazakhstanis under the leadership of the Head of State have gained confidence in the future, stable work, the opportunity to live in peace and harmony.
in the capital we visited many polling stations, saw a special activity of residents, a large number of the population who came to vote.
Speaking at the presentation, the experts commended the special report of the Commission on Human Rights under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and noted that the Government and the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan began to implement their recommendations.
The issue of inviting Venezuelan entrepreneurs to Kazakhstan to give impetus to the development of business cooperation was also discussed.
The main goal of the action is care and respect for veterans involved in the rear labor activity during the Great Patriotic War and the war, instilling patriotism among department employees and a call for respect for adults.
On the basis of the plan of events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, measures of social protection of World War II veterans are provided.
Recall that the presidential election of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held on April 26, 2015.
today the message should be the beginning of each of our actions, our region should be a vivid reflection of the prosperity of our country, "said the head of the N.Nurken information group.
excludes a legal entity from the registry.
funds are provided for the preservation of the architectural and architectural shape of the streets, watering shrubs.
I also sing in Russian, Ukrainian, Tatar.
here are photographs of the defenders of the Brest fortress, archival documents about the divisions formed in Kazakhstan.
these were difficult times.
a great impetus to the development of tourism.
production capacity amounted to 250 thousand units.
in the operational training class, the use of artillery during special operations, the inclusion of an artillery brigade in hostilities during the localization and destruction of illegal weapons in the places of deployment of the population, as well as the general state of defense of the brigade, types of defense, etc.
the document is aimed at resolving the legal and organizational issues of readmission of persons illegally entering the territory of the state of the contracting parties.
ZhNK LLP is included in the industrialization map with a project to increase the production of high-quality meat products and semi-finished products.
Rector of Pavlodar State University named after S. Toraigyrov a.orsariev and rector of Omsk State University named after F.Dostov. the yakub signed a memorandum on the implementation of joint international undergraduate and graduate programs, "the statement said.
In addition, in order to strengthen the role of the employer in the pension provision of citizens, from January 1, 2018 it is planned to launch a new conditional funded system with the introduction of mandatory pension contributions in the amount of 5% for employers.
In addition, the meeting participants drew attention to the expansion of opportunities in the market of medicines and medical products in connection with the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union
A subsidy procedure is being developed with financial organizations.	at the moment , they are negotiable .	0,69
these funds will be allocated in two stages, the report said.
As reported in parties, promotion of the candidate from the party "Nr Otan" for consideration of a congress "Nr Otan", results of work of political council of party and central control audit commission for the reporting period
eternal country is a national idea, reflecting the deep history of Kazakhstan's statehood!
Following the meeting, members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan appealed to the deputy group to initiate early presidential elections in the Majilis of Parliament, "the statement said.
within the framework of the working trip bakytzhan sagintayev also held talks with the Prime Minister of Mongolia Ch. Saikhanbeleg.
During the forum, mechanisms and tasks of implementing 5 institutional reforms were discussed.
the company exports its products with Kyrgyzstan to Uzbekistan and plans to enter the Tajik market with Turkmenistan.
thus, citizens who have served in the army until a certain time or have retired on state organization issues will be provided with a full state pension during their years in the service of protecting the fatherland.
Following the meetings, the parties agreed to further deepen cooperation in these areas.
In particular, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan together with the Ministry of Finance was instructed to send a letter to the Eurasian Economic Commission on the postponement of the internal approval of the draft customs code of the EAEU.
The application will bring the use of public services to a convenient and operational level.
In order to normalize the situation, 5 CCTV cameras have been installed in the district center according to the "safe city" system, "the akim of Akkayyn district said.
in victory, they competed in the spirit of real competition and showed a high level of physical fitness.
the concert will be held on the initiative of Mukhitdinov.
I believe that there is no alternative to integration, so we initiate relevant processes.
Today, about 8.5 thousand preschool organizations operate in the republic, including 1.5 thousand or 17.2% private preschool organizations.
in addition, a large conversation is unfolding in the work about bilateral Kazakh-Chinese relations.
legislative consolidation of the powers and status of public councils, and increased transparency in public decision-making.
Despite his age, the veteran is energetic at the events that went through him.
The Chinese chairman noted that the Kazakh-Chinese strategic partnership has been dynamically advancing in recent years.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the purpose of the military training is to check the level of knowledge of officers of various military disciplines, placement in senior positions and sending to study with verification of the professional skills of officers.
As Sarinzhipov noted, the Ministry's activity in vocational technical education consists in the development of dual training.
the implementation of the Kordai Wind Farm project will eliminate electricity shortages at the regional level, reduce electricity imports and reduce the amount of greenhouse gases.
13, Aromatic hydrocarbon production complex.
In general, this year it is planned to plant more than 8 thousand seedlings in Kokshetau.
together with Chinese partners, it is planned to implement large projects worth several billion dollars.
Kazakhstan has made significant strides in employment. there is a success in securing employment .
the foundation of our welfare.
As the Vice Minister summed up, enterprises need to create favorable conditions for their employees in order to finally abandon the way compensation is paid.
Schoolchildren reportedly took part in a press conference dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
Kazakh is a wide-format language. on a knife edge the great country united people of different nationalities .
"I would say if Turkey knew about this poet, who cared deeply, especially about the fate of the people.
if we have everything, we only need to consume our own.
From 2009 to 2015, 3.3 thousand will be launched. MW capacity.
today we came for a holiday.
we did it for our happiness, for our prosperity.
In conclusion, the head of state gave a number of instructions for the further development of the project.
If we were once a small Kazakhstani in the Soviet Union, now that we are one of the largest states in the world, the four phenomena in which our economy is developed have become equal.
offset printing with four inks, perforation with a ridge.
February 6, 2015 during the celebration of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "kha - 20 good deeds!" Republican action.
The educational components and the system of parental care are also considered in detail.
all schools have been renovated.
the lease was 15,116, the total duration was 4 thousand 442 hours, the length of 29 thousand 206 kilometers.
Since its foundation, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has come a long way, having accumulated huge unifying and intellectual potential and adapting to the model of the institution of people's diplomacy.
Prince Mohammed and the Naif expressed full support for initiatives and steps aimed at developing comprehensive cooperation with our country.
According to KTZ, a special forum was organized during the exhibition, which discussed such important issues as the modernization of the railway system, the improvement of transport infrastructure, and the improvement of services in the Eurasian space.
The new PSC consists of a building containing regulatory vehicle registration and driving licence halls, an examination class, a ready-made document sector, traffic police offices and a vehicle registration and driving licence room.
The company provides for additional funds for exploration, we are constantly working on updating and supporting mining enterprises.	the company 's specialists are working to improve technology , modern production system implementation .	0,69
dead veterans are also buried, the report said.
in addition, a fountain is installed next to the structure, in which 550 wastewater will be blocked.
however, on the one hand, this is the payer of various taxes of the regions. moreover , these refineries are main taxpayers for every region .
Within its framework, 808.6 billion tenge is allocated for the construction of housing.
In particular, 3 projects were presented in the southern region in 2014.
even in Kazakhstan, rich in other fossil fuels such as oil, not all regions are rich in the same resources.
Chairman of the Coordinating Council for Inclusive Education of Akmola region marat Ibraev instructed to organize health conditions for children with disabilities in the "star" dSB.
industrialization should produce competitive products, not for industrialization.
the parties discussed a number of issues, including an agreement on pension provision for workers, simplification of border control at the internal borders of the eurozone, the practical application of the provisions of the "working migration" section in the EAEU in the states.
In 2050, independence peers will become representatives of the country's older generation, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in our opinion, the document will be ratified within the next 1-2 months, after which customs control, transport control, veterinary and phytosanitary control between the customs of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan will be eliminated.
special attention was also paid to measures aimed at strengthening the state border.
I am sure that with your support we will be able to raise our cooperation in various areas to a higher level in the future, "the congratulation says.
foreign managers plan to share knowledge and experience, improve the quality of medical services.
will perform at the "Burabai" margin "Republican swimming tournament.
Before the meeting, a festival of friendship of the people of Kazakhstan was organized with the participation of employees of the supreme court apparatus.
The Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov visited the aviation base, the Marine Brigade and the naval base.
in each cottage there are 7-10 children.
According to the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as part of the implementation of the points of the individual action plan between Kazakhstan and in kind, with the participation of Kmebi experts in international humanitarian law, the instructor and instructor of the Cascent conducted an annual course "English language terminology used in multinational operations."
The chairman of the agency also reported on the results of the evaluation and monitoring of the first stage of reforms identified by the concept of a new model of public service.
transition to a competitive basis for career advancement of public servants.
growth, especially in mining, where the volume index was 100.3%, in manufacturing - 100.2%.
During the meeting, the issues of access of entrepreneurs to means of financial support from second-level banks, to these finances and problems were discussed.
management of the coordination headquarters is entrusted to the Forestry and Wildlife Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture.
this means that they will consume less, which means that this may affect our exports, our state's revenues, respectively, on the economy.
The main goal is the creation of a new administrative and business center of the capital and the creation of new industries in the industrial zone.
The parties also noted that the signing of treaties is one of the important steps towards strengthening cooperation in the field of combating crime, improving the effectiveness of supervisory and law enforcement activities in this area.
The institution has created all the conditions for providing medical care, "the report said.
Taking into account the difficult weather conditions, these measures will also be used for leasing grain and wheat drying equipment.
a museum was opened there, which will be saturated with numerous information about the protein.
In addition, he added that the complex of measures provided for in the field of legislation, the widespread introduction of self-government is designed to modernize our country.
At the end of the meeting, the parties agreed that the main position of democratic elections is to hold fair elections through an equal struggle.
The Minister, in turn, assured the head of the international mission that the Ministry of Education and Science will continue active joint work with the paired children's fund (UNICEF).
veterans of the rear, in turn, thanked the guests who came to visit before this holiday, wished all Kazakhstanis good health and, most importantly, calm.
The main holiday is the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War, in the fall a regional meeting will be held in Kazakhstan.	besides cis regional meeting scheduled on the autumn .	0,69
The commander of the fire department raised two children from the house where the statue was wrapped in fire, and saved another person.
Topic: "On the tasks of the message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan," the bright path is the way to the future, "as well as on the progress in the implementation of state and sectoral programs."
legislative provision of prevention of terrorism and formation of its effective mechanisms, elimination of factors contributing to the spread of radical religious ideology.
because there were a lot of such centers this time, for 16 regions this is very good, "said Madina Nurgalieva.
his love and care will become an example for children and close men. " asanova.
This was made possible thanks to the new high-tech laboratory in the engineering and technical version, created on the basis of the National University of Defense named after the first President of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation.
According to experts, the evolution of the electoral system will continue after the presidential election.
these risks include the current decline in the prices of the world economy and raw materials, and therefore the decline in revenues to the budget basket.
when you start this business, you notice that people pay attention to the development of large financial services.
foreign citizens most often resort to such services as microsurgical removal of the spinal disc hernia, in vitro fertilization, cardiac surgery, embolization of the uterine artery.
The holiday begins with a big military parade ate with participation of the head of state who will pass on the main square of the capital in the square "a az і".
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the participants discussed the importance of a memorable date for the development of Kazakhstani patriotism.
there were many interesting works in the competition, it was difficult to choose the best works for a professional jury, which included the best architects and specialists in the field of high energy efficiency technologies. the competition presented a lot of interesting works , and the professional jury , which included the best architects and specialists in the field of energy-efficient technologies , could not choose the best work .
On February 10 of this year, another step was taken towards improving the business environment and financial support for the small and medium-sized businesses of the capital.
it was originally planned to cover 404 villages of 181 districts with a high unemployment rate, unsuccessful occupation and a large number of low-income residents, as well as low participation in the 2020 Employment Roadmap program.
The entry into force of this Agreement, taking into account modern threats and challenges, socio-political conditions in some countries of the world and in connection with the entry of the Kyrgyz Republic into the Eurasian Economic Union, will create additional conditions for the development of mutually beneficial cooperation and friendly relations between Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic.
It should be noted that it was at the same inspection in the CIS countries and Europe that the military experts of the Center for Arms Control and Inspection of the Republic of Kazakhstan were.
It is noted that the main advantage of this system is the triunification of time and consumer funds.
the document was sent for consideration by the chamber.
The head of the Center for the Study of Interethnic and Interfaith Relations of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan made a speech at the opening of the conference. Saduokasova.
officers got acquainted with the peculiarities of service and combat life of military personnel of the naval forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, social and everyday situation.
At present, it is necessary to establish own production for such types of products as poultry meat, sausages, apples.
today, the development of rail and road corridors is one of the main directions.
A bill to supplement and amend certain public and private partnership legislation expands the contractual form of the programme.
In addition, 208 thousand tons of hay remained from the accumulated feed stock in 2014.
these documents were sent to the EAO from January 1, 2016 to ensure the functioning of the universal market for medicines and medical devices. these documents are aimed to ensure the functioning of the eeu market of medical drugs and devices since january 1 , 2016 .
admired the technical capabilities of the artists, their acting skills.
In his opinion, citizens made their informed choice and showed the whole world the example of the greatest vote.
In order to strengthen measures of Kazakh content, an active import substitution policy will be resumed. the active policy of import substitution will be resumed in order to strengthen the measures for the local content .
During the meeting, the Egyptian Minister was presented with a letter from the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions Kassyma-Jomart Tokayev with an appeal to take part in the V Congress, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year, and to send it to the XIV meeting of the secretariat of the forum, which will be held on June 9, the Foreign.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to constantly increase the investment attractiveness of the city, primitive support for small and medium-sized businesses.
As the Majilisman noted, financial recovery provides for subsidizing half of the interest, servicing loans of agricultural entities.
Recall that the program "Business Roadmap 2020" was developed in accordance with the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people "A new decade - a new economic recovery - new opportunities for Kazakhstan" and a plan aimed at implementing the development of Kazakhstan until 2020.
high level of physical training of the soldier, except for special education.
According to the department, favorable conditions for children affect the quality of education.
they prepared ideas about the arts of representatives of different nationalities, demonstrated the mores of different peoples.
his goal is to set an example for others, to urge others to be active and relatives of their country, to serve for the city in which he lives, and in general for his country, "the report said.
in particular, the Tatar-Bashkir ethnocultural association "peace," the Georgian ethnocultural association "Iveria" and the public Turkish associations "Ahyga."
According to the rating, Kazakhstan ranked 27th among 170 countries of the world in terms of youth policy development, "said B. Saparbayev.
Also, within the framework of the Western Europe-Western China transport corridor, the issue of further extension of railway routes is being considered, "he said.
The delegation headed by Governor of Zhambyl region Karim Kokrekbayev paid an official visit to China on January 11-15, 2015.
the family forms the continuity of generations, respect for the older generation, care for children, traditions of mutual assistance, hard work and passion for education, "said the executive secretary of the Turkestan city" zhas otan "aidos baijans.
The Kazakh Khanate is a legitimate continuation, the heir to state structures and states that lived in Kazakhstan from the first millennium to the middle of the second millennium AD, as well as a state of a national character that lived in Kazakhstan from the 15th century to the first quarter of the 19th century. the kazakh khanate is a logical duration , follower of public buildings and states that existed on the territory of kazakhstan in the period from the first millennium b.c. until the middle of the second millennium b.c. and formed as state of the ethnos living at the territory of kazakhstan in 15-19 centuries .
and projects recognized as the best at the regional level could participate in the meeting.
Members of the single coordinating council of equity holders of Almaty region noted that over the years of independence, citizens of the country lived painlessly and felt the care of the state.
the agreement covers not only the ordinary trade regime, but also the management of intellectual property rights and a number of other areas.
at the head of this center is the head of state, who unites world principles.
It is noted that during the event, employees of departments and departments organized a concert program.
they study with other children, who necessarily carry tutors.
according to rating agencies, this forum is an authoritative and popular world platform for discussing the most pressing issues of our time, in which well-known politicians, diplomats, public figures and entrepreneurs take part.
In addition to their candidates, representatives of the headquarters did a lot of work to familiarize the population with election programs, increase voter activity, "the political scientist said.
on the same day, the doors of the military institute of the ground forces were opened for those wishing to see the life and life of our modern defenders.
Following the meeting, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies regarding the work of the republican commission for training personnel abroad and the commission for awarding state prizes named after al-Farabi in the field of science and technology.
when placing a state order, medical organizations are responsible for the quality of medical services.	the key requirement while placing the order is a responsibility of the medical organization for ensuring the medical services ' quality .	0,69
the unlimited trust and love of all Kazakhstanis is evidence of your unwavering authority.	boundless trust and love of all kazakhs are proof of your trustworthiness .	0,69
in his speech, Karim Massimov thanked him for his trust and said that he would make every effort to fulfill his tasks.	in his speech , k. massimov thanked for trust and said that he will make everything possible to achieve goals .	0,69
work that raises the authority of a person.	therefore , we must praise the working man .	0,69
modern meat processing plant "kazbeef ltd" in the city of Shchuchinsk supplies marble meat to Russia.
The concept of a new model of public services includes the election of heads of the personnel service in coordination with the Agency for Public Service Affairs. in terms of a new model of public service , the head of the department have to be appointed in coordination with the agency .
During the working meeting, representatives of the joint-stock company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy and the Chinese side noted that the Kazakh-Chinese logistics terminal is developing at a special pace.
gold electrolysis shop.
if we talk about the contribution of new tengnologies to this dynamics, then this is quite logical.
The head of the region also got acquainted with the construction of the "friendship house."
the bright road you have declared "is highly appreciated in the world.
these are both named dates.
Despite the fact that most of our veterans went through life, these people will forever remain in our memory, "said the veteran TJ.
The head of the region noted the need to further intensify work in this direction.
The question of the legal status of the phd degree holder in conference networks was accepted from Almaty.
they have proved their effectiveness as a coordinating force that monitors public order around the clock.
At the same time, according to the head of state, investment in infrastructure is on the agenda of many states, not having the opportunity to develop.
In addition, he handed over to the leadership of the NPP an official application for observer status for this organization, "the statement said.
its main goal is to improve the transport flexibility of Kazakhstan.
Kazakh diplomat N. a congratulatory letter from Nazarbayev on the occasion of the victory in the presidential elections in Uruguay.
we respectfully recall the officers who performed a real feat, interrupting their lives in order to save the civilian population. we are paying tribute and respect to officers who have made a real feat and gave their lives to save civilians .
forced industrial development and a bright path. "
Since the declaration of the moratorium, 3866 inspections of small and medium-sized enterprises have been registered in legal statistics bodies (180,312 in the same period in 2013). since the announcement of the moratorium in the bodies of legal statistics 3866 inspections of small and medium-sized businesses were registered , " the message reads .
According to the ministry, the review of the central level of power in Kazakhstan is a country review carried out as part of the activities of the committee on public administration.
the second group is doctors who provide medical care to the population.
this conference was prepared jointly with the Kazakh Academy of Architecture and Construction.
More than 80% of employees were trained in Italy and qualified in the international category.
everyone works, experience is gained.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
In particular, within the framework of the festival, the main priority will be directed to the development of Kazakh classics.
Thus, we intend to avoid a recession and overcome the existing difficulties in the global economy.	in turn , the russian prime minister stressed that the intention to create the eaeu united the two countries .	0,69
The purpose of the meeting is to explain the work carried out in the city on the development of state youth policy during the implementation of the main directions of the message of the leader of the nation n.a.nazarbayev. the purpose of the meeting is the explanation of the measures taken for the development of the state youth policy in aktobe in the framework of the main directions of the address , " the dip reported .
It should be noted that in 2014 the parent company Kazmunaigas provided sponsorship and charitable assistance in the amount of 6.77 billion tenge.
As Kurgannikov noted, thanks to the wise policy and foresight of the president, the Kazakh population will create a huge impetus in history.
As you know, all this happens only in a peacefully developed country, "the head of state emphasized.
It is planned to cover the residents of 404 villages of 181 districts with a high unemployment rate, unproductively employed, with a large number of socially vulnerable people, as well as a low level of participation in the ZhkDP 2020 program.
we highly appreciate that Hungary was the first European Union country to sign a strategic partnership agreement with Kazakhstan.
the meeting discussed issues of improving the organization of the transport of passengers and goods in the international direction.
According to him, the second stage of the construction of the poultry farm is currently being implemented, the capacity of the enterprise will be doubled.
The briefing will discuss the tasks of the message of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - the way to the future," as well as the progress in the implementation of state and sectoral programs.
roads, railways, gas pipelines pass through the region.
Taikazan has historical significance, it is a historical center that unites people.
According to the anti-odor department, to date, about 8 houses of rural residents have been gasified.
according to the results of course training, fighters receive a certificate of full completion of course training in the specialty "advanced aviation target."
5 projects were approved at the meeting.
However, everyone was able to collect boots and focus on an important campaign.
on the basis of the Almaty Medical University, it is necessary to open a medical holding in oncology and radiology. it is necessary to create the medical holding on oncology , radiology on the basis of the medical university in almaty .
special conditions will be created for the participants of the new center, including a judicial system based on the principles of British law using English.
the industry came to this result thanks to its powerful and comprehensive support.
tanks, standing next to each other, dance among themselves.
the above document was signed by the President of the Association for the Support and Development of Pharmaceutical Activities, the President of the Association "Pharmmedindustriya Kazakhstan" serik sultanov, the President of the Association "International Pharmaceutical Manufacturers of the Republic of Kazakhstan" vyacheslav lokshin, the executive director of the Association "distributors of pharmaceutical products of the Republic of Kazakhstan" Nat" Natalya gunko.
the merger of Kazkomertsbank and bta and fort at the expense of integrated banks in the first half of the year will reduce problem loans. following the results of the first half of the year we expect that in the light of loans write-off in the restructured banks , the level of problem loans will decrease .
On February 6, 2015, all events dedicated to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be launched.
most of them are set aside for bed.
365 of them were commissioned.
therefore, we returned to this issue.
their names will be forever preserved in the hearts of millions of Kazakhstanis who are satisfied with these exploits, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan.
and this visit left a deep mark on Kazakh-Turkish relations. the current visit will certainly also left a deep impression in the kazakh-turkish relations .
As of January 19, 2015, the Mayor's Office of Semey adopted 78 applications for the legalization of property.
Together with the city and Almaty regional akimat it is proposed to consider these issues as acutely as possible.
In the period from 2014 to 2017, kaztransoil processed separate sections of main oil pipelines in three stages: kalamkas-pencil and river and river, to ensure the uninterrupted and reliable transportation of Buzachin oil from whitewash to recycling.
The Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption should become the single center of the country for the selection of specialists for the public service. the agency for civil service and the anti-corruption should be a single recruiting center , which will control the selection of personnel for the entire civil service .
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, all our affairs should be open, the state should not have any secrets to the people, information, government decisions should be accessible to the population
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan this exercise is already held for the thirteenth time.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the autonomous zone of Ningxia is located in the north-west of China.
for professional development.
The best city multidisciplinary children's hospitals recognized the children's hospital of Temirtau, Karaganda region, the city clinical children's hospital No. 2 of Almaty and the Shymkent city children's hospital of South Kazakhstan region.
all appeals are published on the site www.damu-komek.kz.
We plan to open various circles in order to develop relations and the art of children, "said Governor of the Chagan rural district A. Atakhaev.
At the fair, everyone was advised on microcredit and social assistance for the unemployed.
in these educational institutions, together with foreign partners, specialists will be trained in the new educational program, taking into account new technological advances.
The head of the capital drew special attention to the environmental situation in the capital, which can negatively affect the health of citizens, especially children. during the meeting the mayor paid special attention to the environmental situation in the capital , which may adversely affect the health of citizens , especially children .
Also during the event, it was noted that veterans of the Second World War "Keep the peace!" The appeal was read out.
now there is fierce competition between states. the states are in keen competition .
also at the exhibition of the steel institution "Return to the Country" a collection of silk handkerchiefs based on the artist's paintings is presented.
for the exercise of this right by the voter, the akimats draw up voter lists and are responsible for the reliability and completeness of the information.
the telegram says that the head of state with great sorrow received the cold news of the death of French citizens as a result of the terrorist attack.
in addition to members of parliament and members of the legal council, heads of state bodies and departments, Kazakh and international experts took part in the discussion.
aviation specialists will train pilots and engineering staff of the Air Force of Kazakhstan as soon as possible, "said Alexey Veprev, Director General of the Irkutsk Aviation Plant.
the number of three-shift schools decreased by 3 units, emergency - by 4 units.
In order to bring our states closer together, I express my intention to intensify cooperation and develop bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Japan, "the congratulation says.
he has no offspring, but as his relatives say, we will not forget him! "said N. Isakov.
8, Stepnogorsk sulfuric acid plant.
this training will continue next year.
Strengthening the reporting discipline of judges.
Each participant of the action has the opportunity to become the owner of such gifts as a mobile phone, smartphone, gadget.
To date, the medical workers of the "special staff" have provided diagnosis and medical assistance to 1,500 people.
According to the Foreign Ministry, the Kazakh delegation was represented by the director of the consular department of the Ardak Madiyev, and on the German side - the head of the German Foreign Ministry department for foreigners and refugees, oliver schnakenberg.
thanks to the available material and technical base, in particular, training places and educational literature, equipment of the training and combat group, training grounds and a shooting range, the military allowed to master high-quality skills, gain theoretical and practical knowledge.
in addition, pilots will perform various aerobatics figures.
In addition, in accordance with the program of this event, the arrival of not only Kazakhstani, but also a well-known master of hand art, jewelry, Kazakh applied art abroad was organized.
The Kazakh Minister noted that the simplification of visa requirements will give additional efforts to entrepreneurs and investors of the parties, will increase the volume of mutual tourist flows and will contribute to the establishment of direct dialogue between people.
there is no imported meat on the shelves.
training at each level is divided into a month and is taught in the state and Russian languages.
Only in the near future we opened an office of psychological and pedagogical correction in the city of Aktobe as a result of joint work with a private fund "alone."
Participants discussed the main areas of national policy: monitoring and implementation of the UN Concept on Disability and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the school, using the personnel resources and capabilities of the university, helps to improve the qualifications of its teachers, and graduates to focus on choosing a future profession, develop interest in scientific search, and prepare for UNT.
One of the activities of the new body of the national chamber will be to advise central and local executive bodies in solving problems arising in the process of work of young entrepreneurs.
The 550th anniversary is not only a census of the past, but also a future that needs to be overcome.
within the framework of the Eurasian space, a platform should be created for raising integration among members and discussing issues of development and direction of the continent.
At the end of the event Mayor of Almaty congratulated all residents of the city on the holiday and wished them good health and well-being.
firstly, it is necessary to continue the modernization of regional courts, which began in 2012.
the act of voting is an important act in a democratic society.
The interlocutors stressed their readiness to further mobilize efforts to counter transnational drug trafficking, as well as the exchange of operational information, experience and legislation in this area.
On February 11, the head of the emergency department of the Sarysu district, lieutenant colonel of the fire service b.kalykov, the head of the fire department No. 4 of the city of zhanatas of the Sarysu district, the major of the fire service of the m.mambetov.
graduated from high school akmola.
in addition, e. as part of an idrisk visit to Dushanbe. a bilateral meeting with the summer resident, during which the prospects for cooperation in both bilateral and ecu formats were considered.
Participants of the seminar expressed support for the work of the competent state body aimed at improving legal literacy, citizens' confidence in state bodies, the formation of an anti-corruption worldview and culture in society.
research has been carried out in the country, in some schools a 12-year standard of education has been introduced. there was the experiment in several schools that tested the new standard of 12-year education .
140.6 thousand cubic meters of water were pumped out.
is the missing human capital.
In addition, gentle people are at the head of large production enterprises and farms in the region.
The main task set by the head of state is to ensure the stability of the enterprise, preserve jobs and intensify work to attract private investment in the economy.
young people from Atyrau and Mangistau regions also took part in the live broadcast.
The meeting on the development of systemic proposals aimed at ensuring transparency of law enforcement agencies, respect for the ethics of employees and their responsibility to citizens was attended by the heads of special and structural units of law enforcement agencies, the presidential administration.
According to Akmola Media Center, the charity event will help large families.
Khoja Ahmet Yassaui International Kazakh-Turkish University is the only higher educational institution with international status among Turkic-speaking states.
I consider it necessary to implement reforms in stages.
In the future, we plan to build a number of new buildings in our city.	and it is the ideal proportions , new color combinations , functionality - that 's the style of minimalism .	0,70
The organizers of the holiday program made a great gift to cultural and art workers.
For credit funds, the company plans to purchase special equipment and a special automobile for repairing pipelines.
the Commission replaced 191 energy-saving pumping units and 500 group cold and hot water metering units.
As part of the event, a photo exhibition was organized on the theme "I want to be with others," which featured works by children with autism of young photographer Arthur Idrissov depicting the educational process at school.
representatives of self-employed and socially disadvantaged groups also go there.
in addition, it is planned to develop high-tech and energy-efficient industries.
the introduction of a liberal tax regime in the center.
his victories arouse interest and incentive among military personnel and young people to engage in sports.
The parties also expressed interest in joint cultural events organized as part of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and other significant events.
speaking about the conditions for admission to school, the curriculum, the opportunities provided by the school, the school director presented the presentation "Our school is our world," shot by high school students.
In order to attract entrepreneurs to provide kindergartens, agreements are being held with large companies.
representatives of the public association "Trolley" are grateful to the entrepreneur who contributed to the common cause and the Karis ethnocultural center.
this will optimize the process of using land for the improvement of property of entrepreneurs.
we are always in the center of news and have repeatedly proved our love for the Motherland.
thus, the Olympiad in Alma-Ata may be the least expensive in recent decades.
positions on topical international policy issues were also compared.
According to him, not only preschool institutions, but also the private sector will be involved in solving this problem.
in this regard, the traditional Spartakiad will promote physical activity and sport among health workers, mobilize the medical community to engage in physical education, create a common responsibility for health and promote a healthy lifestyle among the population.
During the meeting, the main tasks of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" were discussed: the development of industrial, energy and road infrastructure, housing issues, investment projects, ensuring the fulfillment of social obligations by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
currently they are preparing for world army sports games at training camps in the South Korean city of incheon.
The total readiness of the transport and tractor fleet on March 27 of this year is 92-100%.
From that moment, young teenagers were officially admitted to the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
In addition, Kusmangaliyeva noted the high level of organization of the electoral company.
we have no conflict of interest.
in industrial production, the city of Petropavlovsk is ahead of others, followed by the districts of Musrep, respectively.
According to him, youth, all veterans of cities and districts will take part in events held in the region.
the majority (90.1%) of food is collected in urban elevators.
Ad hoc working groups on all aspects of the issue have now been established.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has always supported initiatives aimed at the sustainable development and advancement of our Motherland, and it will be so in the future.
The improvement of Kazakhstan's justice system is current. the issues of improvement of the system of kazakhstan 's justice are relevant .
Gunner 76-mm cannon, served in the 1118th rifle regiment.
this is a program for young people aged 18 to 29 years, students of graduate courses of educational institutions.
Note that the bill defines the composition and functions of the national guard.
On the same day a. Musinov met with the Second Minister of Foreign and Trade Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan and discussed ways and possibilities of intensifying bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Brunei.
strengthening the family and preserving traditions are one of the main conditions for the development of our statehood.
To date, 122 veterans and 3 thousand 700 rear workers live on the scales.
Reportedly, participation in the Aktobe Zheo white trade will last until April 24, 2015.
"We are the people of Kazakhstan!" unites the slogan.
24-hour rescue measures are provided in flood-hazardous zones of the country.
In addition, the commander of the air forces during the official trip considered the construction of complex facilities for a special company.
Great trust and gratitude for your work, which is improving our city.	in addition , he expressed great respect and appreciation for women , who make the city more beautiful .	0,70
More than 30 countries expressed a desire to enter the free trade zone. over 30 countries expressed wish to hold talks on establishment of the free trade zone .
the purpose of these sessions is to improve the skills of commanders in organizing control when announcing alarms.
The project of large-scale modernization is being prepared by the world-famous architecture bureau of St. Petersburg robbery.
according to the plan, the state will allocate funds for the construction of a kindergarten in the akai village of the Karmakshin district and the village of Zhankozha batyr of the Kazalinsky district.
The draft law is designed to improve the system of state regulation of water supply and sanitation.
the assessment should be fair, since the purpose of a single national test is to assess the quality of education and education, students and educators. the main task of the une - is to evaluate the knowledge and the quality of education , teachers and students work , so the mark should be fair .
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens at the next exit of mobilization groups.
In addition, the presentation of the website under the President of Kazakhstan was presented during the meeting.
In the future, it is planned to increase jobs.
in the joy of the dead there is no.
products are mainly sold on the domestic market.
To date, active discussions are underway in all business areas of the preparation of this document with the participation of business representatives.
State targeted social assistance for low-income able-bodied citizens will be provided only if they actively participate in programs to promote labor and social adaptation.
according to the results of these two stages, the jury summed up the results of the competition.
The meeting was attended by the head of the branch of the association for European affairs fam thi thai, the secretary general of the Vietnamese association of graduates of Russian/Soviet universities nguyen thi minh chien and other officials, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
You are an energetic youth who will contribute to the implementation of the ideas voiced in the message of the head of state. it is important that you are young and promising students , imbued with the ideas of president 's address and found their place in its implementation .
The event was attended by Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, representatives of youth and public organizations, members of the Almaty public headquarters of the candidate - more than 5 thousand people.
The conference and exhibition are designed to draw a lot of attention of employers to the need to create working conditions in safety and to the full extent, "said D. Argandykov.
it is worth noting that the Semipalatinsk strategic railway route and road, water and air transport are located on adjacent land routes.
our experience is being studied in the post-Soviet space, "said A. Muradov.
In addition, K. Massimov called on Lithuanian businessmen to invest in a Kazakhstani enterprise.
then he taught at the Pedagogical Institute named after A.S. Pushkin, then before going on a well-deserved rest he taught at the State University named after M.Ntemis.
According to representatives of the akimat, in order to stabilize prices for goods and ensure food security in Baikonur, Aleppo and Akai settlements, the barys shopping center was opened last year.
N.Nazarbayev noted that every visit of r. Erdogan to our country is full of significant successes aimed at strengthening relations between the two countries.
the development of high technologies - I see no reason not to develop them here. i see no reasons why you can 't develop high-tech .
A mechanism for monitoring food prices in general is being established and successfully implemented.
One of the priority areas is the expansion of jeo-1 and jeo-2 capacities, the completion of reconstruction, as well as compliance with the deadlines for the jeo-3 construction project.
In addition, the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship, the Committee on Finance and Budget and the Committee on Socio-Cultural and Scientific Issues were instructed to agree on a number of bills and give conclusions on them.
in this sacred place in the fall we will celebrate the 550th anniversary of Kazakh statehood.
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens on subsequent trips of mobilization groups.
Seven sports were included in the competition.
Regarding the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Minister confirmed the relevance of such issues as the development of the juvenile justice system, as well as the prevention of the exploitation of child labor, the introduction of alternative forms of raising orphans in the family, and ensuring the special needs of children with disabilities.
this historic date was a new step in building an independent, independent Kazakhstan, building a modern state structure, realizing the idea of ​ ​ peace, unity and social harmony of the people of Kazakhstan.
about the basic safety conditions that every student should know during the tour.
payment for services is made only after a quality and volume examination is carried out.
The highest capacity utilization rate in Kazakhstan bej - 2014. Registered November 28 at 19:00 and amounted to 13,586 MW. the maximum power consumption for unified energy system of kazakhstan amounted to 13,586 mw .
The head of the association noted that the document contains a wide range of issues related not only to tax procedures, but also to the court.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was congratulated on his victory in the presidential election "November Petroleum Opereiting B." The team of the oil and gas condensate company and the trade union organization.
This includes operating in 24x7x365 mode, maintaining uninterrupted operation and fault tolerance of software and hardware systems at the level of 99.749% and protecting data from unauthorized access to the system and physical violations, "the report said.
we are completing the program, it is fully implemented.	annual tree planting is being carried out , it will amount about 30,000 trees .	0,70
Currently, work is underway to change the meaning of the secondary education system, in connection with which the pre-school education program is also changing.
In addition, one of the most important objects of the exhibition is a specialized park of green energy and ecology.
He likes to meet with young workers, talk, share his memories, says polina panayatovna, "you need to love your profession, appreciate."
he noted the special role of the institution of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
also presented the existing Internet portal, providing individuals and legal entities with simplified access to a wide range of public services in the tax sector.
The event ended with a festive concert unfolded in the steppe table, at the end of which a festive shooting was held in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
As part of the training seminar, employees of "national information technologies" demonstrated the entire process of receiving services in the test mode: from filling out the application form to obtaining a certificate.
As the main partner of Romania in the Central Asian region, A. Gerya highly appreciated cooperation with our country, noting that plans to diversify Kazakhstan's export destinations and alternative energy supply opportunities meet the interests of the two countries.
Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov noted that such hockey courts will work in all districts of the region in winter.
If the plan is implemented, a national regime will be established that ensures the access of eao producers to public procurement and will contribute to the formation of a single clear procedure for controlling the turnover of light industry goods in the general market of the union and tax administration in relation to them, "said Sergey Sidorsky, a member of the UES board.
According to the Mayor's Office of Almaty, five teachers received grants in each school.
now on the e-licensing portal it is enough to fill in the electronic order and data form, "he added.
Until the end of the year positive impact on speed of construction will be had by the program "Nrla zhol" as within this program in 2015 10 billion tenges will be allocated for construction of housing.
Speaking about the importance of strategic partnership with Turkey, A. Beissenbayev noted the dynamic development of Kazakh-Turkish cooperation in various areas and stressed the need for comprehensive capacity-building of the inter-parliamentary friendship group "Kazakhstan-Turkey," operating in the parliaments of the two countries.
According to him, the entrepreneur allows the citizens of the village to pay for the sale of equipment and home furniture in two days.
the main thing is that our souls were happy.
Deputy Chief Eid akb. Since the beginning of this year, the Ottoman Jacquin, during the implementation of the principle of "zero tolerance" for petty crimes, such as riots, drinking alcoholic beverages, throwing garbage in public places, revealed 5 thousand facts of administrative offenses.
I think that representatives of the Central Election Commission will be able to discuss all issues of interest to mission representatives at the workplace throughout the campaign, "said K. Turgankulov.
the crisis, after overcoming difficulties, we return to previous policies, we carry out restoration work in all areas.
For its part, Kazakhstan will not seek to expand foreign economic relations and regional integration, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
According to him, at present, participants in these programs have good educational achievements.
This year, competition for one place will be very high, "said the head of the joint-stock company.
According to the Governor's Office, during the charity event, priority is given to pensioners and disabled people, children in need of assistance from social services departments and low-income citizens.
large enterprises reduce jobs through the introduction of new technologies, innovations.
Presidents took part in the meeting, in particular, from Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev, from Armenia - Serzh Sargsyan, from Belarus - Alexander Lukashenko, from Kyrgyzstan - diamond atambayev, from Russia - Vladimir Putin, from Tajikistan - enamel rahman, as well as the Secretary General of the Republic Nikolai Bordyuzha, the statement said.
They will teach beginners and already working entrepreneurs of all industries entrepreneurial abilities and conduct an examination, revealing the effectiveness of the profession.
akimats should monitor the need for enterprises in personnel, promote the opening of business entities, the launch of additional industries.
In general, most representatives of civil society stated the need to adopt this law and intend to participate in its improvement before it is submitted to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and when it is adopted within the legislative body.
At the forum, the chairman of the RCP "Kazakhstan Confederation of Disabled People" noted that it is necessary to ensure that people with disabilities can get into residential buildings, educational, medical, cultural and sports facilities, as well as build ramps for disabled people at newly built facilities.
The Government must also take the necessary measures and ensure the effective and rational use of these funds.
we can achieve the goals outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy with the help of solidarity, "said Erkinbek Ayazbayev, head of the EKR secretariat.
According to preliminary data, in 2014 this figure amounted to 100 per 94.0 thousand people (in 2013 - 99.49), "said K. Nurgaziev.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev draws attention to the fact that the participants of the Great Patriotic War and those who worked in the rear received social, material and medical assistance with special attention.
In accordance with the requirements of the pension reform carried out in 1997, state pensions for the years of stay in the armed forces can be received only by those who have served since January 1, 1998, or citizens with experience in the army for more than 10 years.
successful presidential elections during the crisis in the world economy determine the course for the further development of the country. the results of the elections , successfully held against the backdrop of the looming global economic crisis , are the next step on the way to further development in all areas .
now children are actively training.
One of the main objectives of cooperation is to create favorable conditions for business in the field of health care, including the quality of products of the international standard and the improvement of technological processes and regulatory legal acts.
in his opinion, this is possible only with full legal protection of the business.
According to representatives of akimat, after the meeting the head of Kostanay region visited the house of three veterans of the Second World War, who could not come to the meeting, and also congratulated them on the upcoming holiday and presented medals.
we are pleased that our cooperation will be even worse in the near future.
Before the meeting there was an exhibition-presentation of innovative ideas and scientific potential of East Kazakhstan region, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
increased freight turnover through the railway line is associated with the commissioning of railway lines of the zhezkazgan - personification and the river - the future.
over the past five years, the legislative base of the electric power system of Kazakhstan has been updated. over the past five years much was done in respect of legislation in the electricity sector of the country .
there is still a gap in research funding in the science system. there is still a disparity of funding for research in the system of science .
in their opinion, it is necessary to form a civic consciousness and views of children with age.
There are 429 schools with 119.0 students in secondary education.
introduction of a new tariff policy in the electricity sector, stimulating investment in the industry.
Abdikalikova stressed that conducting sociological research is an objective necessity, the results of which will contribute to the determination of the main directions, ways and methods of implementing state ethnopolitics.
Also, the meeting participants considered the issue of non-admission from Kazakhstan to Russia of pork made in third countries of the world and prohibited for shipment to the territory of Russia, "the report said.
We are glad that this will, a symbol of prosperity, came to Earth.
Children with disabilities are provided with permanent correctional support with 2 pmpk, a rehabilitation center, 69 speech centers at general education schools and 11 psychological and pedagogical correction rooms.
The head of state congratulated all veterans and residents of the country on Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory
To receive the service, you need to register on the portal of electronic digital signature and electronic government.
opening the meeting, First Deputy Prosecutor General Johan Merkel noted the importance of the newly adopted Code of Criminal Procedure, which strengthens the protection of citizens' rights, increases the effectiveness and efficiency of the criminal process and brings it as close as possible to international standards.
transfer of UBT is not allowed.
According to the akim, the center will further increase the business welfare of the capital and in the future will be among the 20 leading financial centers in the world.
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, summed up the results of the regional competition for socio-economic and socio-political development of the region, representatives of the republican media received cash prizes and diplomas.
According to him, within the framework of idmb, engineering is a driver among other industries.
cash payments will also be received by home front workers, spouses of WWII participants and persons balanced with WWII veterans.
military-patriotic education of young people and adolescents, improving the image of military service, promoting physical training and sports are priority areas of education for the younger generation, "the report said.
We are grateful for the head of state's concern for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, "he said.
more than half of them died in battles on the battlefield and in captivity in fascist concentration camps.
Any citizen registered on the network can receive answers to any question of interest to him on financial and financial legislation. every participant will receive any information in the field of finance and financial law .
dno services allow government agencies to save money on the construction of server infrastructure, its equipment and service support.
in the mining industry, there was a slight decline of 0.3 per cent.	the gross output of agriculture amounted to 2.5 trillion tenge and increased by 0.8 % compared with 2013 year .	0,70
The capacity of this facility will be 10 thousand cubic meters of water per day, and the cost - 2.6 billion tenge.	the production capacity of the facility will be 10,000 cubic meters per day , the total cost - more than 2.6 billion tenge .	0,70
relations of oil production with the Republic of Bashkortostan within the Russian Federation will be strengthened.
Kozhamzharov Kairat Perneshovich was appointed chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
Recall that in the capital, chaired by party leader N. Nazarbayev, the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party is being held.
Kazakhstan does nothing in this matter, "he said.
there are created conditions for convenient propaganda of works in the field of photography, painting, graphics and applied art.
By order of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he was appointed chairman of the financial control committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
elections will continue until 20-00 o'clock metropolitan time.
over the past two years, the above topics have been at the forefront of citizens' appeals.
the main purpose of the check is to check the ability to perform a combat mission assigned to a military unit.
with local executive bodies and relevant territorial election commissions.
I want to express my sincere gratitude not to Kazakh citizens who today speak the Kazakh language, to parents who raise their children from kindergarten to know the language of their homeland. today , i bring my sincere gratitude to all non-kazakhs who study the kazakh language , parents who teach children to speak the language of their motherland .
It is noted that the main activity of the plant is related to the design, design and creation of high art products.
service of recipients of services at the place of residence (reception of documents and opening of an account) ensures the time of receiving the state service and reduction of costs, convenience, simplified procedure.
Your apparent election victory is a recognition of your work in recent years, "the letter says.
every Kazakhstani should contribute to the development of the state language through a specific case. every citizen of kazakhstan should contribute to the development of official language .
The second direction of the program involves entrepreneurial initiative due to the fact that many self-employed work in agriculture. the second direction of the program promotes the entrepreneurial initiative in rural areas .
Major General also noted that the orchestra will definitely be at the military parade.
I can say that the elections in Kazakhstan were held openly.
Congratulations on the holiday of Nauryz. it comes with the first warm rays of the sun .
The amount of the monthly allowance paid to large families under the age of majority with four or more children living together in 2014 amounted to 7,705 tenge.
the agenda considered the results of operational service and issues of order in the state of military service, observance of the rule of law, anti-corruption activities of the personnel of the internal affairs bodies of the region and priority areas for 2015.
Participants of the symposium discussed the role of the highest financial control bodies (IP) in ensuring sustainable development and the contribution to the UN development agenda beyond 2015.
The train consists of doctors and social workers, arlagers and members of non-governmental organizations, youth and artists.
the height of the memorial complex is 2.5 meters.
To prevent unreasonable price increases for socially important food products in the regions, local executive bodies are implementing a set of measures to stabilize prices.
I am pleased to invite all of you to the capital of Tajikistan, distinguished colleagues.
and every soldier should make effective use of the theoretical knowledge available and demonstrate a coherent team.
porridge is part of a three-day meal, which is provided to military personnel daily. porridge with other dishes was included in the meals of soldiers .
At the VI Congress, N. Nazarbayev noted that conditions are being created for rural entrepreneurs who meet the requirements for which we live. at the vi congress of n. nazarbayev stressed once again that the entrepreneurs of the villages are provided with the conditions that meet the requirements of the time that we are experiencing .
the Code served to guide the conduct of military personnel and was important in combating corruption.
The Vice Speaker drew attention to the importance of the upcoming visit, noting that Germany and Kazakhstan are close and reliable partners.
these works will have a multiplier effect, providing manufacturers with orders for the supply of equipment and construction materials.
this project is a reflection of the new model of relations between state and public structures, which not only covers business relations, but also coordinates a constructive solution to business development.
villagers do not know much information to open their business.
also excludes requirements for registration and printing of private business entities and others.
Vice-Rector for Social and Youth Policy on the opportunities of the innovative Eurasian University, which can be provided to schools today, Professor Kairbekova said.
It was also noted that the strengthening of Kazakhstan's unity should be characterized by citizenship.
The meeting participants confirmed the need for such a meeting, noting the importance of improving the effectiveness of joint actions of specialists responsible for this area in applying veterinary and sanitary measures in foreign trade.
By the way, veterans of the Chernobyl tragedy were presented with memorable gifts.
starting service from a simple district militia, he resigned as a police major.
A great deal of work is currently being done in Kazakhstan to further improve the legal framework and practical measures on human dimensions.
a capsule with a message to the 100th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War after the end of the action will be exhibited in the park "Victory in the city of Taraz," the report said.
each child received a New Year's prize on behalf of Almaty akim.
according to the expert, the presence of its own transport and logistics complex will not only increase cooperation in the field of freight transport, but also avoid any traffic jams and obstacles.
today a clear understanding of Kazakhstan's entry into the top 30 has been formed. inspection procedures are simplified , all transfereed into electronic format in kazakhstan , " he added
According to the information, the high quality of the manufactured products will be carried out due to new technologies and modern devices.
at this time, one of the Kazakhstani locomotives passes and is tested on the railways of Turkmenistan.
He is also interested in joint work in the field of information and electronic technologies, comprehensive medical solutions in the field of health care, "the statement said.
the parties discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral relations in various sectors.
without this, we reduced the second category with an annual income of 2.7 billion tenge by 2 times to 107 million tenge. we have almost reduced the nadir on the second category .
1,645 telemedicine meetings were held for patients in rural areas, 44 videoconferences for rural doctors.
analysis of the survey results showed that all respondents were satisfied with the level of professional qualifications of 938 5 or judges 86.4% of economic courts.
I sincerely congratulate the public on their common victory. i warmly congratulate kyzylorda on our common victory .
as well as e. Idrissov congratulated the representative of Kazakhstan in his speech. Zhankulieva with the assumption of the post of Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs.
Currently, one of the most discussed issues of the business community within the EAEU is the issue of parallel imports. today , one of the issues discussed in the business community within the eeu is parallel or so-called " gray " imports .
The purpose of attracting these funds is to replenish the working capital of the holding for the implementation of the state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan to stimulate and support the agro-industrial complex, as well as the financial recovery of economic entities.
According to Adilbek Dzhaksybekov, the goal of the party is to unite the efforts of the city authorities and the public so that not a single veteran is ignored.
we can now use this peer review with specific advice and evidence-based data. now we have analytical review with many recommendations based on facts .
b. jumakhanov paid special attention to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
in dissolved nitric acid, gold, platinum and paladium remain in the filiated bag.
After the implementation of the South-North project, it will be possible to export to Uzbekistan and Tajikistan.
According to him, 71 billion tenge is provided for co-financing of microfinance organizations from the National Fund for 2016 for the construction of housing and communal services, transport routes and rental apartments.
Held since 1995 in a 4-year period.
we have a lot of things that we learn from our colleagues.
such work is underway today.
in their opinion, such qualities as hard work, purity of conscience, cult of science and knowledge, tolerance were called the main values ​ ​ of the "eternal country."
The quality of Kazakh wheat is very high, "said Abdulrahman al-ziman.
At the end of the conversation, he expressed confidence that the central commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan will ensure a high organizational level of elections taking into account previous proposals of the Ecu and other international organizations.
we must be among the fifty competitive countries in the world.	kazakhstan is a successful country , the former soviet union leader , but there are big tasks .	0,70
Within a month, we defeated the enemy, and he had been resisting us for four years.	in one month , to defeat the enemy , who for four years had threatened us .	0,70
The head of state wished the participants of the game success and handed the winners the Super Bowl.	the president has wished the success to the participants of the game and personally handed the super cup to the winners .	0,71
Issues of introducing a system for the early detection of occupational diseases and a mechanism for managing occupational risks in everyday practice will also be considered, "the deputy prime minister said in a letter.
According to the First Vice-Minister of National Economy, the program provides for the liberalization of legislation on regulatory markets and natural monopolies.
Following the meeting between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region, memoranda on diversification of agriculture and development of agricultural industry were signed between Kazagrofinance JSC and the Governor's Office of the region.
The head of the city emphasized the role of women in the victory in the Great Patriotic War, outstanding exploits and invaluable contribution.
however, he did not give such a result to the British, the French and their allies, who were the organizers of this operation.
L.Susainova also noted that the level of development of ethnocultural associations of Astana city is currently raised to a new stage and they show themselves as organizations capable of making decisions on public issues.
dear Kazakhstanis, now we are going through difficult times. dear kazakhstani today we face a difficult period .
promotion of tax legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan is informing taxpayers about information related to tax payments and about amendments and additions to tax legislation.
the increase in cargo traffic is due to the commissioning of the Zhezkazgan railway line and the river.
this will be continued, "the report said.
The forum is attended by highly qualified specialists in the field of passenger transport development, representatives of business, industry scientific and public organizations.
It is worth noting that in 2014 about 10 thousand coniferous plantations were planted in the region.
At the same time, representatives of the group will train and improve the procedures for making military decisions at the headquarters of the Kazbrig and Kazbrig.
you have given us clear goals and objectives to preserve peace, harmony and economic stability.
the new building of the center was built in five years at the own expense of this institution.
there are also appeals, we are waiting for the registration of other states. we also receive applications and wait for confirmation of other countries .
As noted Romanovskaya, the adopted institutional reforms are aimed at the development of entrepreneurship in the country.
Congratulations on the holiday of Nauryz. i congratulate you on the bright nauryz holiday , which comes with the first warm rays of the sun .
Kazakhstan and China are not only friendly neighbors, but also strategic partners.
At the same time, the Chairman of the Majilis noted that the EAEU created is aimed at the development of the economy of member states, mutually beneficial integration, preserving sovereignty and independence in the future.
To match this historical role in the life of our country, we must learn a lot, work a lot, constantly improve knowledge.
We believe that inspections of high-risk groups should be 60%, inspections of medium-risk groups - 30%, and weak risk groups - 10%, "said yu.theumuratov.
Speaking about the organization of the presidential elections, he emphasized that the Kazakh side is taking all possible measures to ensure the organization of the electoral process in accordance with high democratic standards.
for example, Kazakhstan actually joined the configuration of the silk road economic belt by opening road and railway routes on its territory.
cadets who passed with honors exams in physical training, state-legal and combat training were sent to military units, where they will occupy the posts of junior specialists in the received specialties.
our goal is to serve the people and to fulfill them qualitatively.	he also have stressed that we all seek to serve the people and to do this efficiently .	0,71
in addition, the inspection group was able to observe command and staff exercises conducted by the 10th Panzer Division of the 12th Panzer Brigade of the Bundeswehr at a training ground set in western Europe. "
East Kazakhstan region is preparing for the reconstruction of roads.
the last time he served as chief of staff of the civil protection in the Almaty hotel "Otyrar."
the test included listening, vocabulary, a reading part of 105 questions.
The purpose of the event was to establish relations between employers and unemployed citizens.
during the examination of the gastrointestinal tract, diagnoses such as stomach tumor, ulcerative ulcer were revealed.
to date, a regional development program has been created, covering the period until 2020. "
at the same time, 50% of the housing provided is provided to young families married for at least three years, with children and under 35 years of age of both spouses.
by decision of the party members in the upcoming elections, the head of state will support the candidacy of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
1st place in the team competition was taken by a team from among veterans of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2nd place was taken by veterans of hostilities on the Tajik-Afghan border, 3rd place - veterans of the war in Afghanistan.
along the road there are 2 junctions and 2 overpasses.
every voter who came to the vote performs this task, "said the CEC chairman during a meeting with Shu observers.
The personnel, led by the commander of the regional command of the capital, Major General Sultan Kamaletdinov, visited the front-line soldier and congratulated him on his significant anniversary, wishing him good health and a long life.
The decision of the EEC board approved the draft Customs Code of the Eurasian Economic Union, which was sent to obtain domestic consent.
then representatives of the military police will test knowledge on the anti-corruption legislation of Kazakhstan, and psychologists will conduct psychological testing at the level of intelligentsia, self-consciousness and well-being.
we have a high potential for cooperation in agriculture and other sectors of the economy.
among them are winners and laureates of international competitions of the republican type.
During the meeting, the issue of providing a certificate on product safety in customs procedures was considered.
Also, the valley was conducted among the population of the settlements of Novodolinsk and the city of Shakhtinsk "Kazakhtelecom" and employees of the education department of the city of Priozersk.
because obama and another candidate are well promoted, "said R. Millor.
in order to improve the legislation of this area "on joint stock companies," as well as with the analysis of other legislation and the labor code.
he noted the role of local authorities in the Universiade 2017 in Almaty.
According to him, competitions and contracts for the implementation of these forms of business will be carried out according to standard documents.
Once again, we draw your attention to the need to translate the format of the work of the Shu Business Council and the interbank association of Shu into a practical plane.	besides , karim massimov again paid attention to the need to changing the work of the sco business council and sco interbank association in practice .	0,71
It is worth noting that the bill also contains an opinion on the experience of using rights aimed at improving the bill on public procurement.	it should be noted , the draft law has already includes amendments on regulatory enforcement oriented at public purchase legislation improvement .	0,71
The project contributes to the preservation of calm in the city and the reconciliation of peoples. this project has a great mission to develop and strengthen interethnic harmony .
it is held as the highest forum of art with the aim of preserving and improving the cultural heritage of peoples, as well as developing the ideas of Delphic games.
returned home in the summer of 1945.
each employee annually produces an average of more than 20 thousand dollars of products.
each participant has a special responsibility.
he was always at the forefront.
Work on the New Mns project has been completed, readiness shows 94.4%, the schoolboy said.
In 2015, among the series "unforgettable and anniversary dates," the nominal value of stamps of the postal block of three stamps dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory was 200 tenge, and the total circulation was 15,000 copies.
In this park, which is celebrated on May 9, 100 coniferous trees were planted.
It is worth noting that the seminar participants showed interest in this issue: during the meeting, an exchange of views was held on the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025.
In 2014, the regional courts received more than 53 thousand lawsuits and cases, which is 6,974 more than in 2013.
Participants of the event will get acquainted with the international experience of combating smoking as the main cause of lung cancer.
Therefore, the company should be withdrawn after the sale of its assets withdrawn for privatization, "said E. Bakhmutov.
After May 16 of this year, third-year mentors in the specialty "tactical management of army aviation" will begin flight exercises on military helicopters.
According to him, 139 houses were completely evacuated to the safe zone.
Ye.Dyrissov noted that the meeting of representatives of business circles of the two countries will have a positive impact on trade and economic relations of the states.
To date, 20 of 22 turbines have been installed, an auxiliary post is being built.
Section 2 criticizes citizens who have passed the first, that is, the qualifying stage.
in the western regions of the country, the elections will end in 21.0 Astana time.
If we talk about 3 preferential trends, then agriculture works in all cases, there is an institution of private property, everything is liberalized according to price policy.
the average annual number of recipients of this type of benefits was 173.5 thousand people.	the average number of the recipients of the child care allowance was 173.5 thousand people .	0,71
According to the plans of the leaders, next year the building of the children's institution will be expanded, a music hall and a theater studio will be equipped.	it is expected to build a large music hall and new theater studio in the next year , the governor 's office reported .	0,71
In this regard, he has high hopes for the visit of the regional delegation to Kazakhstan scheduled for June 1-4 this year.	in this context , e. sellering has high hopes for the upcoming visit of economic delegation to kazakhstan region .	0,71
This project in support of unemployed women has been operating for 3 years.	this project on supporting the unemployed women is implemented in kazakhstan for three years .	0,71
the level of cultural development, the existence of an effective infrastructure and mechanisms of cultural institutions that preserve and enrich the national and world cultural heritage, the creation, dissemination and application of high-quality cultural values, a fruitful cultural exchange and the spiritual and creative self-realization of the individual.	one of the most important criteria of the success is the level of development of culture , the presence of a well-functioning infrastructure of cultural institutions and mechanisms on ensuring the preservation and enrichment of the national and world cultural heritage .	0,71
The investment portfolio includes 79 projects totaling 119 billion tenge included in the industrialization map. kulagin.
The head of state spoke about this, we must clean up bad loans issued in 2001-2007.
It is worth noting that the exhibition was organized as part of a partnership project of the museum with the aim of a large-scale demonstration of the ancient traditions of decorative and applied art of Kazakhs and the author's work, which gives historical artifacts a new life.
Secretary General of the energy charter U.Rusnak drew attention to the fact that the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is filled with specific cases aimed at improving the lives of all Kazakhstanis.
the head of the region n. stressed the importance of Nazarbayev's message "Way to a bright future," reported on the socio-economic results of the region.
some of the materials we distribute are made from recycled products. part of our handouts is made from the products of secondary processing .
At the beginning of the war, the 387th Rifle Regiment under the command of Major General Alexander Radimtsev was part of the 13th Guards Division, "the officer said.
on the same day, the Nazarbayev Dariga held bilateral meetings in Berlin with the deputy chairman of the Bundestag Johannes Singhammer and the speaker of the Berlin Senate, Ralph Wieland.
in addition, for the convenience of service recipients, there is a self-service sector where all electronic services can be obtained, such as registration of a power of attorney for a car, fines of road safety rules, reimbursement of a tax on transport, obtaining a driver's license and payment of a state replacement fee.
villa during the war years is the name of the book, which was presented in the office of the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party.
In this regard, the Governor instructed the Energy and Utilities Department to complete the reconstruction of heating networks, as last year, before the beginning of September this year.
now the whole problem has been solved.
the conversation took place at the initiative of the Belarusian side.
So, last year the number of thefts decreased by 1.5%, including 2.9%, hooliganism - by 15%, robbery - by 24%, these types of crimes account for 72% of all crimes committed in the country.
it focuses on the geopolitical situation, the problems of the world economy and the need for a new economic policy of the country.
The women's team of Kazakhstan took 6th place at the world chess Olympiad.
I want to thank all the citizens who come here and express their civic views. i want to thank everyone who came and showed their initiative to support the planting day .
issues of providing the territory of the Union with safe medicines used for veterinary purposes in the sale of goods contrary to the legislation of Belarus and Kazakhstan. problematic issues on provision the territory of the union with safety of medicines for veterinary use ; the transfer of goods coming with violations of the law of the eaeu , under the control of the competent authorities of belarus and kazakhstan were discussed too .
today's mini-exhibition, despite its volume, has a lot of content. today 's exhibition is very succinct in its content .
The senator informed the Secretary General of the World Islamic League about Kazakhstan's model of interethnic and interfaith harmony, that this year marks the 20th anniversary of the creation of the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan, as well as the results of the fourth congress of religious leaders and the theme of the upcoming fifth congress.
a. hawks shared their impressions of the parade in the capital and congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the day of the great victory.
In this regard, the artists of the central ensemble of the Republic of Kazakhstan, going around the streets of the capital, performed popular songs and dances of the war years throughout the journey, and also held a small military-patriotic concert in each stopped point in their directions, which distributed balls and bazaars depicting the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan to residents and guests of the capital.
I am sure that we will receive this coup with the president. "
Establishment of a local police service accountable to local executive authorities and the local community.
Because for the previous elections a large analysis is carried out, expertise, errors are differentiated, all opportunities are comprehensively provided.
a similar task is assigned to the embassies of Kazakhstan in Belarusian and Ukrainian states.
According to the Ministry of Defense, individual training involves preparing military personnel to fulfill their task independently and as part of a unit.
From the morning, despite the wind, people are in line at polling stations, but, thanks to the high organization of voting, voters have no problems, "said Dauletiyarov.
J.Aubakirova is the Grand Prix of the international margaret long and jaka thibo competition (France, 1983) and the special prize "for the best performance of works by modern French composers," as well as the Grand Prix of the international chamber ensemble competition (France, 1985).
all this increases the additional cost.
at the meeting, Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov also made a report and informed the audience about preparations for spring field work.
there is everything that it takes for the child to grow and develop, including playrooms, "said A. Yesimov.
According to the head of the Board of Trustees of the Almaty Zoo Raimbeka Batalova, the modernization was carried out in order to bring into line with the changes and requirements that have been taking place in the world recently in the direction of the development of the zoo.
In accordance with the order of the management, the board of the NPP is currently considering options for obtaining part of the shares in trust management.
if the tender is won, the Kazakhstani side supplies the rails necessary for the construction of a railway with a length of 36 kilometers.
First, there is a need to provide clear support to enterprises to ensure that producers have access to trade facilities by providing reduced tariff ratios for electricity and rail transport. firstly , it is a block of issues related point support of the enterprises through providing the reducing coefficients on tariffs for electricity and rail transport and access to the objects of trade for commodity producers to the enterprises .
The head of state also noted the need to further improve the execution of justice, ensure access to it by the population, and increase the professionalism of the judiciary of Kazakhstan.
the visit also made it possible to raise awareness of the Austrian side about the ways of cooperation with Kazakhstan.
winners and prize-winners were presented with cash and valuable gifts.
This topic was continued during negotiations with the head of government of Kyrgyzstan Temir Sariev.
Central Asia, that is, our region may be affected by new directions of shock in the world, which may threaten the entire region.
mainly citizens appealed on the application of criminal law, criminal procedure legislation, and the legality of the activities of criminal prosecution bodies.
The issue of simplification of visa requirements between Kazakhstan and the EU has become an important topic of negotiations.
the document is aimed at improving and further expanding scientific and practical cooperation, intensifying the participation of Kazakh experts in the "future" program to improve professional skills in major scientific centers of the world.
Kazakhstan also has cultural values ​ ​ on Astrakhan land.
The accession agreement determines that representatives of Armenia are fully included in the work of the union's governing bodies.
he also studied, based on the experience of Russians, work on how to develop special economic zones in the Kazakh region, how to allocate land and capacity to investors for this.
It is also noted that the fate of the country is directly related to the fate of its leader.
at present, it is important to establish a mutually beneficial and clear mechanism of interaction.
The law defines the foundations of the minimum social standards established by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic, ensuring the realization of the rights of citizens guaranteed by the State in the social sphere.
Today, within the framework of the action, a public reception room of the Council of Public Harmony, a seminar-meeting on issues of state ethnopolitics, culture and tolerance and ethnocultural relations will be organized.
Following the meetings, Mayor of Houston Anis parker declared December 23, 2014 Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Houston in honor of the celebration of the 16th anniversary of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
the potential for future expansion depended on the need to deepen economic integration in Shu territory.
today the veteran lives with his daughter.
If in previous poems and songs the focus was only on the external essence of the fate of tender people, then the young poet in his poetic ways demonstrates the beautiful soul of a woman who does not move very much.
Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the quality of the control process, "the Foreign Minister stressed.
gold medalists, such as zulfia chinshanlo, zhasulan gyrdyrbaev, ilyin, as well as our athletes, such as zhapparkul and Vladimir sedov, won silver medals.
great success in the implementation of the messages you voiced and planned plans.
Recall that in 2007-2009 there was a crisis, and in 2010 we began to rise.
the Kazakh representative also told Montenegrins about economic and social issues implemented in the country in recent years.
At the same time, as the Vice Minister noted, the share of the service sector today is equal to contributions to the industry, engineering, agriculture, and the use of state wealth.
The new economic policy will be implemented as part of the Nұrly zhol program for 2015-2019.
as part of actions to legalize property, an application was received for the legalization of real estate.
During the meeting, the parties agreed on the transition of vehicles to an environmentally friendly type of fuel, the formation of the necessary infrastructure on the basis of establishing long-term and mutually beneficial cooperation.
in addition, the new application will allow the use of such services as consideration of the order of order and timing of technical inspection of housing, verification of licenses and checks, prioritization in the PSC and search for pharmacies.
The main purpose of the event is to discuss the peculiarities of organizing educational and scientific activities of organizations subordinate to the Ministry of Defense and special state and law enforcement agencies of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Defense said.
as part of the presentation of the scientific and expert council of kha, he organized a public review of the unique edition of q.sultana.
this is a good indicator when there are no other measures in which so many people participate. this is a very good indicator .
thematic contests.
The appeal also speaks about the need to conduct a comprehensively considered policy for Kazakhstan, taking into account instability in world markets.
I claim the "golden sign," passed all the exams, now we are waiting for the results.
Kazakhstan also provided advanced training and training of medical specialists on the basis of medical universities and research organizations of the country.
It is necessary that young people create a family and go on a new life.
In turn, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs noted the importance of actively involving business in this program for the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization.
The purpose of the event is to strengthen the performance of junior officers, to increase their role in personal warrior in units.
Despite the fact that the first years of independence, industrialists were closed in races, the villagers experienced difficulties.	these values unite all kazakhs and representatives of more than 130 nationalities , different faiths , help us to walk confidently on the planned course .	0,71
- Pre-election campaigning on or before election day;	- election campaigning on election day or the day preceding it ;	0,71
two silver prizes went to the Albanians.	saber fencers nurjan karim and aygerim sarybai won two silver medals .	0,71
Organization of an investment panel to deal with disputes involving large investors in the Supreme Court.	a special investment board will be set up in the supreme court to examine major cases .	0,71
Thanks to this, refrigerated trains will be served throughout the year.	this year it is planned to increase the number of container trains to 250 in both directions ,  - the statement reads .
Recall that from August 31 to September 1, 2014, a traditional meeting of the Kazakh-Iranian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation was held in Tehran.
Almaty residents are in third place.
Secretary of the district committee.
cement production increased 1.6 times, concrete products - 6.8 times.
internal modernization and outdoor lighting of workshops, heat supply systems, replacement of worn-out technological equipment with energy-saving devices were carried out at industrial and energy facilities.
the railway line and ferry complex are among the major projects that strengthen the transit and export potential of the western direction of Kazakhstan through the Caspian port.
During the meeting, the head of state noted that consultations with the heads of the legislative and executive branches of government are held in connection with the opinion of residents of the country and various organizations regarding the holding of presidential elections.
officers and military personnel under contract located in the camp also voted with write-off stamps at designated polling stations in Astana, "the report said.
growing agriculture, and our ancestor - cattle breeding - has also become a source of abundance, "he said.
At the closing ceremony of the competition, the contest participants performed Bulgarian and Kazakh songs, read poems, danced, remembered the closing ceremony.
the issue of membership fees, graduation, was frozen in the law.
recently put into operation Zhezkazgan - video-beam, Shubarkul railways. new railway lines zhezkazgan-beineu -arkalyk- shubarkol have been recently put into operation .
According to the Deputy Director for Social Affairs of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Mangistau Region, in the field of the construction profession you should not become a problem of experience and employment.
At the moment, more than 80 people work in production, in the future it is planned to increase jobs to 200 people.
this inhibits traffic flows and prevents congestion on major roads.
the entrepreneur plans to increase the area of ​ ​ potatoes in the future and purchase another means for rain.
in the city of Aktau, servicemen of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan visited the house of a participant in the Great Patriotic War, an honorary citizen of the city, honored worker of the oil refining industry of the Mangistau region Nichaev, congratulating the veteran on the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
if the bank does not comply with this order, then the process is a violation of the standards, "said K. Kelimbetov.
We will continue to work in 5 areas to strengthen the development of entrepreneurship in rural regions, in particular the agricultural sector. employment roadmap 2020 " state program also has significant support for rural business .
the adoption of the bill will allow domestic entrepreneurs to freely transport goods to Europe through the territory of the Republic of Belarus, the conclusion says.
Recall that the main source of financing for education and health care is budget funds.
today, the development of culture and cultural potential is one of the highest priorities for the development of most of the peoples and States of the world.
During the period of slowing global economic growth and declining mutual trade within the eurozone, international experts noted the importance of further deepening integration ties and increasing competition in the Eurasian Economic Union, eliminating non-tariff barriers within the integration association as the main source of increasing the potential of mutual trade.
credit system with return of funds required for implementation of projects.	martynenko noted the funding of the projects will be carried out through chargeback system .	0,71
in his opinion, the interest of Chinese investors is also one of the priorities of the eurozone.	according to him , the interest of chinese investors is also one of the advantages of the eaeu .	0,71
enterprises that have received financial support from the State work mainly in such sectors as cargo transportation, processing and conservation of fish, physical education and health activities, the production of radiators necessary for boilers and central heating furnaces.	among the companies that have received government support are freight transportation , processing and preserving of fish , sports and recreational activities , the production of boilers and central heating radiator .	0,71
In addition, the eob considered it right to follow the path of the central banks of Britain, Japan and refused to buy the public debt of the eurozone countries.	in this case , the ecb has decided not to follow the path of the central banks of britain , the us and japan and refused to buy government debt of the euro area .	0,71
by tradition, it will be held on June 1 - international children's day.	according to the tradition , it will be on the international children 's day - 1st of june .	0,71
Within the framework of the signed document, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will allocate 2.5 billion tenge for the renewal of the city tram fleet. as part of the signed document , the ebrd will allocate 2.5 billion tenge for the modernization of the city tram fleet , " - the statement reads .
The event was attended by the Deputy Head of the Moscow Fire Fighting Service, Colonel of the Fire Fighting Service. Turarov, department staff and their families.
According to the results of the competition, the first team place was won by the Kazbrig, the second place was taken by the British Army team, the third place went to the military.
In addition, if in December last year it was about further prospects, then in January a document was signed that provides new opportunities for the development of cooperation in the defense industry.
Head of the Department of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Kyzylorda State University named after A.Mundzhasa, scientists m.zusupbekova, a.epenbetova, u.Ibraev. heads of ethno-cultural associations ll., m.isai, sherbakov, a.hamids, i.e., gisatullina, heydarov, teachers of the kha department	the audience consisted of students of korkyt ata kyzylorda state university , agrotechnical college named after abdukarimov , kyzylorda medicine college , college of bolashak university , the kazakh-turkish lyceum , kyzylorda humanitarian college named after m . mametova , nazarbayev intellectual school .	0,71
in the East Kazakhstan region there is round-the-clock monitoring of the level of the Irtysh River.
Adilbek Dzhaksybekov instructed the deputy akim of the city of Nurala Aliyev, together with the relevant state bodies, to submit a plan of measures for the elimination of emergency trade in the city for approval.
One of the goals of the club is to turn the g-global communication platform into a scientific and training resource. one of the objectives of the club is to transform communication platform g-global into scientific and educational resource .
Experts call the increase in the number of women entrepreneurs in the last decade a calm revolution. experts call such a mass exit of the females to the entrepreneurship as a quiet revolution .
These courses, conducted by the school of political management, are aimed at improving the experience of party members, improving knowledge and improving communicative skills.
this trend is common to all developed countries of the world.
Victory Day is one of those holidays that we meet with special excitement.
metalworking will be improved until the production of high-quality steel, the production of cable products.
also on a number of instruments of ratification under the draft agenda, in particular, ratify the Agreement between Kazakhstan and China on Cooperation in Disaster Management, With regard to the draft laws concerning amendments to the Agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on trade and economic cooperation in the field of oil and petroleum products supplies to the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Agreement on checkpoints across the Kazakh-Uzbek state border, a deadline will be set for the preparation of a conclusion to the relevant committees.
According to the committee's conclusion, a new article has been introduced providing for medical care for citizens and certain categories of public servants.
The goal of the action is the care and respect of World War II veterans for the 70th anniversary of the Victory, the education of young people to the elderly.
their main task is to stimulate the development of private energy service companies to provide integrated energy saving services with reimbursement of their own costs and to obtain financial benefits from saving energy costs.
B.Baibek told the president that party members will make every effort to successfully implement the program.
Support by the Government of Kazakhstan for the agricultural industry and farming business is a striking example of economic diversification.
the budget of the film is collected from a group of patrons who are not indifferent to the domestic genre of art house.
The event is dedicated to such memorable dates as the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
On this day, veterans were congratulated by representatives of the rural akimat.
kbtu grants.
among them are margarita Eliseev, currents of karkaters, zhumazhan, erball lavenbaev, Alexander ghetalo and Dmitry Solyanin.
Following the conference, an agreement was reached on the organization of a mission of Spanish companies to Kazakhstan in the near future.
Abdikalikova also talked with fellows, graduates and employees of the center, who provide daily communication with foreign partners.
we will never forget the exploits and selfless actions of the defenders of the Fatherland, who desperately fought for peace and tranquillity on earth.
however, the draft law defines the scope of application of minimum social standards and the frequency of their revision in order to bring them into line with the level of socio-economic development of the country.
Rector of Makhachkalongkornajavidyalai University noted Kazakhstan's policy and invited the Thai government to accept Kazakhstan's experience in ensuring peace and harmony between representatives of various faiths and maintaining a situation of mutual understanding.
As of January 8, 2015, the tax authorities received 1 application for the legalization of property outside the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 421 tenge.
The Latvian president wished the President of Kazakhstan good health and success in a responsible state position, and prosperity to the friendly Kazakh people.
The project will attract $1.5 billion from the World Bank, Asian and Islamic banks.
please participate in the upcoming elections.
work on the formation of the mission is close to completion.
Today I talked with my colleagues, who say that the presidential elections in Kazakhstan were held at a high level.
Recall that two athletes of the Paralympic national team of Kazakhstan - the six-time world record holder zulfia gabidullin and the five-time champion of the Asian Paralympic Games in incheon anoir Akhmetov - fulfilled these standards.
the increase in product prices is due to a decrease in supply volumes and an increase in the price of wholesale prices by sellers by 27% from 255 to 323 tenge/kg.
Maria the wise man at the age of five released a solo album "The Machine" and entered the Guinness Book of Records as "the youngest opera singer."
Congratulating diplomats on the new activity, the Majilis speaker expressed confidence that the appointment of a diplomat to this post will contribute to strengthening political dialogue and mutual understanding between the two countries.
e-statistics "increased the number of visitors to our website.
as an example, he noted the deepening of cooperation between the cities of Kokshetau and Wasmar.
During the years of independence, the female community remained calm and supported my policy.
it has become a universal mechanism for interreligious, intercultural interaction and mutual understanding of our planet, "said Patriarch Bartholomew.
inspector of registration department senior inspenktor, senior inspector of department of fight against plunders of the Soviet property, subsequently chief of this service.
In September of this year, in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1994, the 4th periodic report on the status of children in Kazakhstan, in accordance with article 44 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified in Kazakhstan. in september kazakhstan will defend the iv periodic report on the situation of children in the country in geneva ( switzerland ) .
He served as Vice Minister of Economy and Trade, Vice Minister of Industry and Trade, Vice Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Transport and Communications, Akim of Karaganda Region.
According to the case, many participants in the competition studied from early childhood.
The bill provides for the obligation of organizations managing property rights on a collective basis to take measures to distribute and pay the collected remuneration.
Today we can say with great responsibility that the parental law of our country is a guarantee of the rights and freedoms of every citizen, and the constitution provides all opportunities for the development of a multinational state.	the constitution provides all the necessary conditions for the harmonious development of the multinational country .	0,71
Over the years of independence, the country's energy and oil and gas industries have gone to the creation and improvement of production volumes.	energy , oil and gas industry have gone from recreation to increase production .	0,71
In addition, he did not hide that the organization plans to further raise the Almaty state office to the level of the Central Asian resource center.	the plans of the organization is to strengthen the country office in almaty at the level of the central asian resource center to coordinate the activities for the diagnosis , prevention , treatment and monitoring of hiv infection .	0,71
the main objective of the mission is to monitor the electoral process and report on the outcome of the elections.	mrs. jonker said that the main objective of the mission is an impartial observation of the electoral process and conclusions in the format of the final report .	0,71
Kabus and Said congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.	qaboos bin said congratulated nursultan nazarbayev on his reelection .	0,71
This time, all snipers of airmobile troops were locally assembled on the territory of one unit and underwent training and qualifications, improved professional skills and experience.	for the first time all sniper of the airmobile troops were assembled locally in the territory of the one unit for learning , training , improvement of skills and exchange of experience ,  the ministry of defence reported .
today is a group of observers, we are completing our work and summing up. the group of observers from the parliamentary assembly of the csto pa quits .
the second is the growth of the country's economy.
The exhibition leaders brought together representatives of several generations in one space, ranging from the leading Kazakh contemporary art to the recognized classical artists and novice masters of the younger generation.
Governor of Akmola region Sergey Kulagin met with farmers in the sowing area, got acquainted with the sowing campaign in Zerendinsky and Sandyktau districts.
During the briefing, issues of prevention and detection of oncological diseases will be discussed.
Just yesterday, a large delegation of our country took part in the inauguration of Nursultan Nazarbayev, who won the presidential election in the capital. the other day , the delegation of the land of cyra ( kazakh akyn ) visited inauguration of president nursultan nazarbayev .
civil aviation should prepare for this and develop new directions.
After the concert, the governor of the Eskisehirr province spoke, noting that holding a "week of Kazakh culture" in Turkey would contribute to Kazakh-Turkish cooperation in the field of culture and art.
means that each of us can show in which direction to go.	the fact that each of us is free to leave an imprint in the history of our country .	0,72
According to preliminary data, in 2014 this figure amounted to more than 9 thousand people.	in 2014 , according to preliminary data , the figure was more than 9,000 people .	0,72
the concept defines the main tasks of its creation and the stages of its creation, the ECE said in a statement.
G. Abdykalikova paid special attention to the work carried out in preparation for the festive events dedicated to the celebration of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
According to him, on the basis of the instructions of the head of state, the Ministry of Energy, together with the national company Kazmunaigas, is developing high-tech domestic engineering products.
I think that every citizen of our country met with special satisfaction the initiatives of the head of state, "said Gulnar Makezhanova.
getting into the competition program, shooting at ak-74 100 meters, firing from an air rifle, wearing a gas mask, as well as military-medical training: primary identification, evacuation of the wounded.
the couple raised 7 boys, everyone was included in the number of citizens.
Thanks to the good work of urban structures, the village of Ilinka survived floods.
The participants of the round table expressed confidence that after the legal approval of the military education system, this issue will reach a qualitatively new level.
Billions of budget funds are spent from the account of one-day companies and false enterprises.
it will prioritize charity events.
I think every citizen of our country should strive for charity, "said a member of the Noble Grandmother club zura kairova.
the text of the law is published in the press.
This year, to provide social services to the regional rehabilitation center for children with disabilities, it is planned to send charitable assistance to the elderly and disabled.
According to the participants, the trip to the famous disneyland turned into a trip that does not leave their memory.
in addition, the protesters paid attention to socially vulnerable sections of society, such as WWII veterans, large families.
in the future, trained trainers will conduct in-depth training courses on the hassle system for representatives of the food industry in the regions of the republic.
As the Mayor of the city noted, the past heating season can be assessed as satisfactory.
Mayor of the city got acquainted with the concept of the project and noted its relevance.
That is, they have great opportunities for socialization, "said the organizer of the exhibition, Aliya Abdibaitova.
One of the main tasks facing the company is to become one of the leaders in the field of nuclear fuel supply.
The quality and prices of the fair were monitored by Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov and akim of Almaty region Amandyk Batalov.
each state body, in turn, will finance youth organizations.
For free, those who have just begun entrepreneurship and have been working in this area for a long time will also be able to study at a business school. beginners and experienced entrepreneurs can study here free of charge .
In addition, a loan will be provided in the region in the form of leasing with a low percentage for the purchase of products of the Yugregionplast plant, which produces secondary technologies for fish farming.
this is a very big job, because it is very important to reveal any truth regarding the Great Patriotic War.
I think that our compatriot is a little lazy, and if one lesson is given half an hour from day, then I think that within a month you can understand and learn to speak. i think that our countrymen can devote a half an hour to learn one lesson , i think that it is possible to understand and speak within a month .
for example, world-class judicial practice, like our personal experience, does not exclude the possibility of any errors in the judicial system.	both , the world experience and practice of our courts show that miscarriages of justice , activity of this or that judicial instance , in principle , are inevitable .	0,72
formation of a favorable migration regime for attracting highly qualified specialists from abroad on the model of cells, Canada, Australia.	establishment of a favorable migration regime , based on the experience of the us , canada and australia , to attract high-quality international experts .	0,72
If the phone has an electronic digital signature, the citizen can receive an address certificate, information about the ownership of the land plot, information about birth and marriage, about the presence or absence of real estate.	subject to having the digital signature recorded his / her phone , a citizen may obtain an abstract of residential address , information on ownership of land parcel , abstract of birth , marriage , ofownership / non-ownership of real estate , etc .	0,72
the senator emphasized the government on the need for high-quality planning of work with reckless bills, preventing the occurrence of adverse situations that negatively affect the quality of legislative work of the Senate.	senator s.akylbay paid government 's attention to the necessity for better planning of legislative work , the inadmissibility of creating an emergency situation that negatively affect the quality of the legislative activities of the senate .	0,72
placing a public order in private preschool institutions at the expense of the national budget contributes to an increase in the number of private kindergartens.
Also, 3 will be landscaped courtyard areas, planted 1 thousand 500 trees and flower beds, on an area of ​ ​ 14.8 thousand square meters.
and privately owned colleges mainly teach humanities. the private colleges are mainly focused on humanities .
Aef takes place in four sessions at which the main problems of the global economy are discussed.
we plan to open a state school of youth policy in Kazakhstan, which will first be tested on the basis of a research center, "said Zh. Buchanov.
in this regard, attention was paid to the forthcoming V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions in June, which is considered as a practical contribution to the implementation of the mcho Plan of Ideas and Actions.
Recall that the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan took the initiative to hold early presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Changes and amendments related to the sustainable use of water resources are being made in order to prevent a shortage of water resources, improve the methodological provision of water users and government bodies, improve water quality by improving targets, "said the director of the green economy department of the Ministry of Energy peaceful shahans.
The participants of the meeting will discuss the issues of further cooperation on the implementation of a set of systemic measures for the development of the system of scientific and technical creativity of children and youth in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2018, the organization of additional education for leisure for children, the improvement of existing legislation in the field of scientific and technical creativity of children and youth in the republic, etc.
we are to the defenders of the Fatherland and eternal debts to them.
V. Shkolnik noted that "the memoranda signed today are aimed at supporting domestic producers and preserving jobs."
The former Federal Chancellor of Germany also sent greetings, noting that Kazakhstan achieved amazing success during the presidency of Nursultan Nazarbayev and became a respected and well-known participant in the international community.
In addition, in order to ensure the return of the allocated funds, the solvency of all applicants will be taken into account, "the statement said.
the geographical location and capabilities of the country on the Eurasian continent are under special control of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Already, the white logistics operator ktz express is considering a project to build a Kazakhstan terminal in the southern port of Iran as part of the development of the external terminal system.
According to the department, at the end of last year in the village of Novaesil, Musrepovsky district, a fitness center and a 25-meter house were commissioned.
independence is a great legacy achieved through the blood and skin of our ancestors. independence hard won by many generations of our ancestors who defended t our sacred land .
The President of Turkey noted the importance of this visit, as 2015 marks the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
Head of the Department of Education of the city of Karaganda d.s. Zhekebayev gave a congratulatory speech.
the Cambodian ruler noted the warm and friendly relations between the two countries, highly appreciated the socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and expressed confidence in the further strengthening of bilateral relations.	norodom sihamoni praised the socio-economic development of the republic of kazakhstan and expressed hope for further strengthening of bilateral relations .	0,72
among them, ratification of treaties between Kazakhstan and Hungary on the transfer of convicted persons, as well as on extradition.	the ratification of treaties between kazakhstan and hungary on the transfer of sentenced persons and extradition are among them .	0,72
For a great contribution to the strengthening of independence, the formation of national unity, the development of intercultural dialogue, representatives of the "kha" were awarded the gold medal "Unity" of the public assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
Afghan colleagues praised the socio-political importance of Afghanistan, noting that the implementation of the Kazakh educational program for training Afghan students in Kazakhstan contributes to the training of Afghan personnel, the socio-economic development of the country, as well as reducing the risks of the spread of terrorism and extremism in the region.
The Millennium Development Goals in education (mdm2) have been achieved at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels.
ahead of the second regional and third republican stage.
to the question of the residents of Usharal city about whether air traffic will be established in the direction of Usharal - taldykorgan and Usharal - Almaty, the Governor of the region replied that this work will be started.
we believe that the idea of ​ ​ holding early elections of the head of state is supported by all forces that want the dynamic development of the country and the improvement of the well-being of citizens. we believe the idea of holding early elections of the president will be supported byall constructive forces of society interested in the accelerated modernization of the country , as well as improving the welfare of citizens .
The average monthly salary in the region for January-November amounted to 78,470 tenge.
The Chamber will also set deadlines for the preparation of an opinion on two ratification bills.
participants in the subbotnik are provided with the necessary means (shovel, cranes), gloves and garbage bags.
the meeting was held in general secondary school No. 105 of the city of Shymkent.
famous songs of the war years sounded on the stage, and the artists of the central ensemble of the Ministry of Defense made the impression that during the Great Patriotic War soldiers performed in the form of clothes and brightly modernized the image of the war years.
Following the event, the head of the Kazakh delegation in the Berlin Senate left a memo in the "book of honor" of the capital's parliament, the meeting said.
According to the source, the decline in oil prices aggravated the situation.
according to the Speaker of the Senate of the Dutch Parliament, democracy, the economy and regional politics are promising areas of the closest interconnected period.
briefing with the participation of Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Zhaksylykov, Director of the Department of Development of Large Business of the Republic of Kazakhstan Galia Zhulkaeva.
So, in the food industry, representatives of "barilla," "rolli" demonstrated their achievements, presented technological solutions and innovations of plant modernization, full-cycle production projects.
In addition, practical training of the flight and engineering personnel of the Su-30sm aircraft will be held at the aviation base in the city of Taldykorgan.
According to the information center, "Student Spring" is a large-scale festival of student art in the region, where not one of the students is left behind.
initially, adolescents got acquainted with models of firearms, weapons and communication devices equipped with new aiming devices.
Based on the above, we ask you to support the proposal of the ha council and consider the possibility of holding early presidential elections in accordance with paragraph 3-1 of article 41 of the constitution of the republic, "said K. Zhakpov.
May the cohesion and cohesion of our country be strengthened, will grow, "the head of the region said in his congratulations.
The meeting was attended by deputy akims of the capital, cities of Almaty and regions - chairmen of the commissions on women's affairs and family and demographic policy under the akims.
we have made progress in developing our own model of stability and harmony in the country.
representatives of Kazakh vocational schools will be able to familiarize themselves with modern educational methods and technologies, get experience as theoretical and practical classes.
this is an area that needs to strengthen the relationship between state authorities, scientific experts and the business community.
hematology and adaptation centres are also planned.
measures had been taken for each offence and the persons concerned had been brought to justice.
During the visit a. Aidarov got acquainted with the development of special economic zones in Dubna and its features.
we have every opportunity to export excess energy to China. we have ability to export excess electricity to china .
you chose this specialty, in general any profession requires responsibility. any profession requires competence and knowledge .
"In this plan" the M g_l_k Ate "is a fundamental basis of the national idea and has to become the factor defining continuity of historical generation", - the deputy of Mazhilis told.
this is due to the fact that today most of the population of the republic is concerned about their health conditions, and this is correct.
Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted the active role of small and medium-sized businesses in the implementation of all state programs.
Guests will also visit the library. S. Pushkin and will meet with Frankfons in the French reading room, "the report said.
winners will be awarded with commemorative prizes.
therefore, the national museum is aimed at preserving the traditions of classical museums and showing the heritage of such copies not only with material, but also with an educational system, "he said.
According to the East Kazakhstan Regional Information Center, officials congratulated the 89-year-old war veteran on the upcoming anniversary and presented a tribute.
Akhmetzhan Yessimov congratulated them on Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of the upcoming Great Victory.
he stressed that Kazakhstan diplomacy has a beautiful thin image.
the parties agreed to further warn of corruption, as well as strengthen cooperation on preventive measures aimed at the spiritual and moral development of society.
The creation of these enterprises will reduce the transportation costs of these companies and save delivery time.
pension certificates and notifications will be delivered to citizens on subsequent trips of mobilization groups.
12 investment projects in this area are being developed in the region.
Scheduled certification of the corps of officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan is carried out in two stages from January 12 to December 1, 2015.
Norwegian specialists, modern technologies, travelers and scientists are sure that thor hayerdahl proves the hypothesis that the Viking ancestors dispersed in the Caspian.
Despite the current complexity in the global economy, this year wealth has increased, "said the leader of the nation.
Currently, the incidence in the village has decreased by 9.5%, and the birth rate has increased.
representatives of more than a hundred ethnic groups live here in peace and harmony. the representatives of more than hundreds ethnic groups live here in peace .
In general, voting takes place at all 9,741 polling stations of the republic.
According to him, construction is currently underway during the period of completion of installation and normalization of the direction of construction of water granules.
Within the framework of the project, special grants are allocated for the education of young people in the southern regions in educational institutions of the North.
all these are a lot of directions of symbolism, symbolic moments, and it would be right to study them, "the artist shared.
the director of the plant and members of the commission signed a protocol and declaration at a board meeting, "the statement said.
at the same time, the mayor noted that the record tax inflow occurred not only due to the growth of production, but also due to the improvement of tax administration and the exit of the economy from the shadows.
Today, according to him, the country has developed a model of inter-ethnic tolerance and unity.
This place in the future will become one of the most attractions of the Taldykorgan.	in the near future  zhastar " park will have all conditions for comfortable rest , it will be the most beautiful place in the city , " batalov said .
As part of the gross regional product, the share of shoba increased by 24.5%.
The head of the Central Election Commission introduced the members of the delegation to the activities of the central election commission for the preparation and conduct of presidential elections, spoke about the peculiarities of the election campaign, the preparation for voting day.
The head of the deputy faction of the People's Communists V. Kosarev noted that the decision was balanced and expedient.
that's not there.
at competitions of international level our servicemen create serious competition to army athletes of states of near and far abroad.
As follows from the message, on the events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, the meeting participants made many proposals and expressed their opinion.
Recall that Taikazan will be sent to Aktobe region with good wishes, such as mutual cooperation and unity, peace and tranquillity, then the symbol will be sent to other regions of the country and on April 22 it will be in the capital.
Based on the joint actions of the akimat and the sports club "Capital," we should increase the number of systematically engaged in physical education, expand the network of sports facilities of the capital and the infrastructure of recreation.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the parties agreed on strengthening anti-corruption issues, forming an anti-corruption culture in society. under the memorandum the parties have agreed to join forces in matters of anti-corruption , work together on the formation of an anti-corruption culture in the society .
Between June 2014 and January 2014, 65 facilities are planned to be implemented.
the children were also in the laboratory.
S. Dyachenko noted that Bosnia and Hertzovin is an important partner in the region for Kazakhstan, therefore, the political cooperation of states is developing in conditions of mutual understanding and trust.
Akim also drew attention to the quality of nutrition of children in all educational institutions.
And in March, housing construction will begin in the Koyankus district.
today, about 50 disabled children in 4 groups are brought up in this institution for diagnoses.
In his speech, Askar Mamin noted the great potential of Kazakhstan to attract additional cargo flows together with the countries participating in the Ashgabat agreement.
He will also visit Almaty, visit a number of medical institutions in the city and hold negotiations on cooperation in this area.
representatives of the Alma-Ata Regional Assembly of People of Kazakhstan presented horses to a children's equestrian school for hippotherapy for children with disabilities.
the Finnish side also expressed its readiness to provide available information on the fate of former Soviet prisoners of war who were in Finland (among whom may be natives of Kazakhstan) and returned to the territory of the USSR during the repatriation period after the end of the war.
previously, the country imported gaps that cost tens of thousands of dollars each. earlier our country imported the bore bits , the cost of each amounted several thousands of dollars .
Inflation is also projected to rise within 6-8%.
In addition, the courts received more than 1.2 million applications and cases.
in particular, with the support of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 8 social memoranda were signed between the akimat of the West Kazakhstan region (zko), trade unions and employers indicating employers' obligations to preserve jobs.
the emotional viewer did not spare his "bravo," and after each complex kiss he applauded.
dina hamzina and solemn akhmetov will prepare for a symphony in Italy for a week.
20 out of 22 registered citizens took part in the reception, who asked questions to the Mayor's Office of the city and received appropriate answers.	as the city 's administration informed , 14 people were interested in finding apartments under the state program  affordable housing 2020 . "
As practice shows, the new type of deposit has been widely used by the population as a financial instrument designed for the coming years.
in recent years, there has been an influx of young people into science and an increase in their scientific potential. it is planned to increase scientific capacity and the arrival of young people in science .
and compared with December 1 of the previous year, the population increased by 251 thousand people or 1.5%.
this service can be used by those who do not have experience in accessing the Internet, because they will be assisted by a specially trained employee of our company, "said the chairman of the board of Kazpost.
in the western regions of the country due to a gap in voting time will last until 21:00 Astana time.
There are many festive holidays, but I can not compare the day of victory with any holiday.
in addition, guests prepared the dishes of the Kazakh people.
such concepts as freedom, democracy, which Kazakhstan puts in the main direction, can be divided into two main directions.	in addition , the president said that today the people of kazakhstan should strive to know three languages .	0,72
in Kazakhstan there is a positive development of the social sphere both during the crisis and after the crisis.	the positive dynamics in the years of crisis and post-crisis period is marked in kazakhstan .	0,72
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhanov noted that on behalf of the Head of State much attention is paid to the development of healthcare in the city.	speaking at an official opening ceremony of the hostel for medical staff almaty mayor akhmetzhan yessimov noted that the city pays a great attention to the development of health care , according to the instructions of the head of state .	0,72
however, the holding of negotiations with the Chancellor of Germany and the Presidents of Russia and Ukraine by the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev reflects the important role of Kazakhstan in solving the tense situation, "said E. Idyrysov.
In 2010-2014, 33 projects totaling 227.8 billion tenge were introduced as part of the industrialization map in the region.
Small hydroelectric power plants were reportedly put into operation in Almaty, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan and Karaganda regions.
Opening the meeting, the chairman of the committee Sergey carpenters told the participants of the event that in accordance with the law "On Amendments and Additions to some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Taxation," the taxation of business entities engaged in entrepreneurship in the agrarian sphere is also changing.
a low indicator in the manufacturing industry occurred in the field of oil refining and non-ferrous metallurgy.
Thanks to a large number of meetings and events, the interest of other countries in Kazakhstan is growing, mutually beneficial cooperation with them is developing. a lot of countries are interested in kazakhstan due to the intensive meetings and events .
We also hope for further cooperation with the business environment of Croatia and, in turn, they will allow us to enter the market of the Balkan region and the European Union, "said K. Makimov.
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, noted that you should not dwell on optimal indicators.
We sincerely congratulate business representatives on their election to the presidency.
The main thing is that the transit flow passes through Kazakhstan.
to date, 22,109 cases of HIV infection have been registered among citizens of the country.
hero of the Soviet Union, Major General Ivan Panfilov - sculptor renat aben.
The Nur Otan party at its congress on March 11 nominated the current head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, to participate in the elections.
this is a reasonable measure, "says the leadership of the NPP.
Each of them is equipped with modern equipment.
The survey participants asked residents to look at the photos of the heroes and tell them their names, glorious exploits and merits.
after the grand opening of the rally, the republican championship on walking adaptation opened.
the work was read in accordance with orphoepic norms.
The management of the fund says that we will qualitatively carry out construction work and hand over the facility ahead of schedule.
The election programs of presidential candidates should not be based on the idea of forcibly changing the constitutional order of the republic, violating its integrity, undermining the security of the State, inciting social, racial, national, religious, tribal and tribal enmity, encroaching on cruelty and violence, and creating paramilitary groups that are not provided for by law (article 29 of the constitutional law).
the presidents of the two countries noted that the Minsk agreements have already contributed to an end to the bloodshed.
The Eurasian Media Forum and our other colleagues were invited to conduct the campaign. in order to hold the campaign we have invited the partners from the eurasian media forum and others .
But you will not tolerate him and discredit the school.
Also at the plenary session, a number of new bills between Kazakhstan and Hungary on the extradition of convicted persons, as well as on the ratification of extradition treaties, were adopted.
a special session on counter-terrorism, extremism and Islamophobia had been held.
in our state, all opportunities have been created for teaching, education, mastering a particular profession and prosperity in this specialty.
for example, in meat and dairy products I buy only Kazakhstanis.
He noted that the fund revised and strengthened the system for the reception and selection of specialists, the development of culture among workers, and the annual assessment of their activities.
For two thousand years, the Christmas holiday symbolizes joy and hope in the hearts of believers, faith in mercy and justice, mercy and mercy.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, one of those who risks and cares about the state is a resident of Kazalinsky district educational aidarova.
every fourth resident of the city went to the front, fought with the enemies of many Kokshetauans as part of the famous 316th Infantry Division under the command of Major General I.Pafilov.
we considered the possibility of implementing joint projects.	they confirmed that they will work , it 's very interesting ,  vice chairman of " ktz " jsc kanat alpysbayev said .
first, the fragmentation of the world order.
In addition, the Secretary General will take part in the discussion of mass events and marketing issues held during the implementation of the EXPO-2017 project.
an invaluable assessment of the heroism of our ancestors.
stepnogorsk roses are famous for their quality.
According to the Chairman of the Presidium of the NPP, T.K. Ulybaev, there are few opportunities and channels for the sale of our currency in measures to increase the role of the national currency.
The headquarters of the collective operational response force defines the tasks of military contingents.
17 social facilities are being built in the capital at the expense of the republican budget.
The tasks set by the President of Kazakhstan have a real basis. we have begun a new stage of the development .
work is also continuing on the introduction and transfer of services of military personnel of the Ministry of Defense to public service centers.
these are environmentally friendly products without any impurities.
In the framework of FIID from 2010 to 2014, it was possible to attract 16.6 dollars of direct investment in the manufacturing sector. within spfiid in 2010-2014 it was succeeded to involve 16 , 6 billion dollars of direct foreign investments in the processing sector that is twice more than in 2005-2009 .
The main goal was to evaluate and process the previously published set of dictionaries and replenish the number of terms in each volume to 9000 and even 11-12 thousand.
According to him, currently people with disabilities work as teachers and specialists in schools.
Nevertheless, everyone has common issues that require a joint solution, "said Timur Kulibayev.
I came to the polls half.
As we see from the analysis, the most popular types of services are legal services, accounting activities and business planning services.
officers and military personnel under contract, together with male men, took part in a ceremony in honor of the Ministry of Defense, the department said.
At the grand opening of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, 9 republican contests were announced.
the bill defines the composition and functions of the national guard.
In addition, according to him, according to the Committee on Statistics of the Second World War, it is necessary to intensify measures to ensure employment of 1.2 million jobs and self-employed.
So, in the village of Kainar, a project of breeding horse breeding is being implemented to open a feeding ground and slaughter.
The state corporation integrates all population service centers into a single system.
moreover, if we say that we will not receive, then the city should become as popular as the capital during the Ecu and Winter Asiad summit.
thanks to our policies during the most difficult period of the crisis of 2007-2009, we did not reduce economic growth. thanks to the policy , which we carried out , in the most difficult times of crisis of 2007-2009 we prevented the minus growth rate of the economy .
The fund focuses all efforts on its main goal - development and assistance to children.
As noted at the Academy of Public Administration, the main goal of participation in the conference is to popularize and separate the achievements of Kazakh society in interethnic and interfaith relations.
if each district covers its own products, then prices will be stable.
front-line aviation is located at the destination airfield.
all this was made possible thanks to the visionary policy of our state, its personal support, as well as the compromise work of the government and the union of machine builders.
radiation hazard categories have been defined and standards for preparedness to respond to nuclear and radiation disasters have been developed.	according to the vice-minister , current law  on using atomic energy " was adopted over 15 years ago , and during this period technology , safety requirements and other important requirements for the use of nuclear energy have changed , kazakhstan also joined to a number of international instruments in the nuclear field .
the next stage - regional - will be selected within the framework of regional management.
The forum participants intend to unite creative forces in the propaganda of the national idea, increase the cultural and spiritual potential of our people in the direction of preserving and studying the culture and traditions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and support creative groups and organizations of culture, science and education.
our route is known, the choice is obvious, the goal is high.
The total area of ​ ​ the building is 1300 square meters, the same amount of construction is underway.
The coal processing process has been prepared by world experts, but Kazakhstani scientists managed to adapt this technology in accordance with the peculiarities of domestic drilling coal, as well as accelerate the technological process and reduce fuel prices, "said D. Egizbayev.
currently there are more than ten thousand, "the ministry said.
we are people who saw everything that happened next to the head of state during the difficult years of independence, in the square before independence.
, "- said in a statement.
the leasing mechanism in the white direction of the karzagredit allows you to receive equipment without a preliminary contribution and interest.
At the meeting, the Ministry of Energy discussed issues of communication in the field of energy and Lithuanian projects in the field of renewable energy.
Every year, the number of employees corresponding to production plans increases.
As part of the implementation of public policy priorities, the construction of social facilities continues in rural areas.
it requires lifting the body to markings.
the reason is that the types of products to be certified and declared are replenished.
The bill was drafted in order to bring legislation into line with the draft law "On the protection of children from information harmful to their health and development."
During the visit, the head of the region congratulated the Salima Zhumabekova and the veteran of the Great Patriotic War on the March holidays.
Our main goal is to enable veterans of the Great Patriotic War, workers in the rear and other people who communicate with us.
in the cities of Aktobe, Kandyagash and Temir, 82.3 km of water supply networks were reconstructed.
During the United Nations peacekeeping mission to maintain peace and security during the referendum in Western Sahara (minurso), Kazakhstani officers were awarded pairs of medals of captain bakiyar akbalayev and captain temirlan musapirov.
According to him, this year crops in the country will be planted on an area of ​ ​ 21.5 million hectares.
also, as another joy of the historical moment, the "dombra dombra" was carried out.
The information obtained from higher education institutions is doubtful. thus we will have the updated data on the number of employed specialists , " balykbayev stated .
The head of state knows like a new word, this is a wise person who does good deeds for the people, "said Sharif Abdullin.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the company's own funds make up 45.5%, the remaining 54.5% - loans.
During the meeting, the Governor of the region addressed the war veteran with a request for health, and also noted the support and assistance provided by our President Nursultan Nazarbayev to veterans.
Tsakhiagiy elbegdorj congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his bright victory in the presidential election.
the Embassy held talks with Serbian State authorities to support Kazakhstan's accession to European conventions and the signing of bilateral agreements in the field of criminal proceedings.
branch of the Kazakh Research Institute of Eye Diseases includes a department of adults and children, a day hospital, a diagnostic and advisory department, a laser center, a laboratory for training ophthalmologists.
The forum was organized by the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan as part of the implementation of the message "Way to the Future."
the commission should begin to carry out its tasks as soon as possible. we need the comission starts work as soon as possible .
Following the meeting, the head of the region raised a number of issues and instructed the Public Procurement Department to hold the remaining competitions before the end of 2014.
A video conference of President Nursultan Nazarbayev was shown on the television screen, in which the head of state wished the children happiness and success in their future lives.
Before transferring the facility to trust management, together with representatives of local executive bodies, we study the conditions under which hospitals and clinics are located. before we transfer any objects in trust management , together with representatives of local executive authorities we examine the state of hospitals and policlinics .
The head of the region D. Akhmetov supported the ambassador's statement and called on Lithuanian researchers and entrepreneurs in East Kazakhstan region.
According to the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Administration B. Maylybayev, ministries and local executive bodies in the social block, as well as Kazakh society, are faced with the task of phasing out 5 reforms of the national plan of the head of state and achieving specific goals.
Also in the city of Ushtobe there is a street i.k. autumn and the primary party organization.
During the round table legal aspects of protection and preservation of cultural property of Kazakhstan, some gaps in control over historical and cultural heritage of the country will be discussed, on the basis of which ways of solving accumulated issues will be proposed, the National Museum reported.
It took only a month and a half to gasify the village of Zelenoye with a population of about 300 people, "the report said.
promoting sport and healthy lifestyles. promotion of sports and healthy lifestyle is due to such meetings with young people .
after the war, Timothy served in the internal affairs bodies for more than 30 years.
here were published volumes of the epic novel of the mukhtar auezov "Abai Zholy," the works of the birch bark mukhamedkhanov, an in-depth study of Abai labor, the works of the professor of arap espenbetov and poet.
Information on call center phones is published in the local media.
its essence is that the import of some goods with the consent of the owner of the trademark is imported from third countries.
many entrepreneurs of the regional center have been working here for many years.
dear delegates, care and support of business from the great reforms and changes carried out under the leadership of n.nazarbayev. dear delegates of the congress , in spite of the great reforms and changes that were carried out under the leadership of nursultan nazarbayev , it is evident that we feel constant care and support in the creation of favorable conditions for business .
According to him, the water level in the village of Karau, belonging to the Aktogai district, is declining.
Although in the third period the winged words of Bauyrzhan momyshula were given, he spoke a lot about the kenesar khan.	he spoke a little bit better than last time  zholdasbekov noted .
all this indicates that the state pays attention to the population, "said A. Galimova.
State investment in education should be returned 10 times to young people. i believe that we need to return 10-fold investments that we have implemented in education .
Within the framework of the implementation of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," it is planned to carry out a number of works in the education system of the Kyzylorda region.
Despite the unfavorable situation, the company plans to increase its capacity this year to 365 thousand tons per year.
The provisions of the Tallinn Charter on Strengthening the Health System, the Moscow Declaration on Non-Communicable Diseases and Healthy Lifestyles, the UN General Assembly Convention in New York, the World Health Organization for Tobacco Control, the European Parliament and the European Union directives on medicines were used for the purpose of legal regulation of clinical research.
The conference was attended by international experts in the field of anti-corruption from Russia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan.
In order to further develop cooperation with foreign partners, the Kazakh delegation held bilateral negotiations, including with the head of the Directorate of Tourism of the Ministry of Economy and Energy of Germany M. Weber, the management of the exhibition and representatives of foreign gardens.
Recall that in November last year, the UNESCO Committee for the Preservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage included in the list of intangible cultural heritage of mankind the art of performing Kazakh Dombrian volosts and the skill of making yurts of Kazakh and Kyrgyz (Turkic) peoples.
In addition, he noted that the company is working to optimize costs.
In the city of Taldykorgan, a solemn ceremony of the solemn meeting of the holy taikazan took place, in which representatives of different nationalities, leaders, members of ethnocultural centers and associations and residents of the city took part.
It is noted that the forum was devoted to the discussion of the further development of the investment market in the road sector.
The Foreign Minister noted to the guests of the forum that Kazakhstan has such long-term plans as the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
The seminar was attended by representatives of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
in addition, with. He sincerely wished the head of state a long life, happiness and well-being.
The head of the region instructed the heads of the relevant departments to intensify work in high-growth industries.
Evacuees from the village of Krivinka, Beskaragai district, East Kazakhstan region returned home.
competitions consisted of several stages in accordance with the rules of military applied sports.
According to the press service of the Majilis, the deputies discussed in the first reading the introduction of a bill on amending legal acts.
adoption of the bill will ensure effective protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests of society and the state from administrative offenses, and will increase the effectiveness of crime prevention.
At the enlarged government meeting in Akorda, the head of state drew the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers.
Within the framework of the event, the Kazakh delegation held a bilateral meeting with the Governor of Bangkok sukumbanda Paribatra.
equipping the material and technical base of the Aksu Black and Metallurgical College, as well as helping the cultural and entertainment center of Aksu in acquiring equipment for the distribution of music and cinema.
The President of the Republic of Maldives also on behalf of the Government, the Maldives people and personally sent Nursultan Nazarbayev sincere congratulations on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.
it provides a wide range of services covering all types of heart surgery.
As the head of the department recalled, recently in the first reading of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan the bill "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts on the legal regulation of the sphere of intellectual property" was approved.
During the meeting, members of the political council of the Nur Otan party spoke in support of the presidential election initiative.
After the war, the front-line soldier actively participated in the work, served in the seven-lake people's court and children's boarding school.
Recall that the Association of Eurasian Universals was created in 1989 on the initiative of Moscow State University as an association of universities of the USSR.
At the plenary session, bills were adopted between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan regarding the ratification of the agreement and agreement in the form of an exchange of notes on issues of railway transit of goods to support the operation of the international security assistance forces in the territory of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as well as on the improvement of the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan and special economic zones.
The head of the capital instructed to check and clean up all underpasses.
In turn, a. Musinov thanked Sheikh Tamim and Hamad al-Thani for the decisions taken to build a school in Astana and a republican health center in Semipalatinsk.
According to the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, the deputy akim of the region congratulated the veteran on the anniversary and on behalf of the akim presented the badge "For merit in the socio-economic development of the region."
On December 26, 2014, at 21 hours 55 minutes Moscow time, the Soyuz-2.1b launch vehicle with a spacecraft for remote sensing of the Earth was successfully launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome. "
The Shu observer mission provided election observation data.
Representatives of the participating countries of the comprehensive summit of Turkic-speaking states will also be represented.
145 million tenge was allocated to improve the health of war veterans and home front workers.
providing services to citizens (accepting documents and opening accounts) provides comfort and simplified order of their residence, does not save costs and time for the civil service, the report said.
At the same time, the number of migrants who left the country increased by 18.8% and amounted to 26,869 people.
The leaders of the two countries expressed their readiness to continue cooperation with international partners to resolve the crisis in Ukraine.
I want to emphasize the importance of using the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian "railway route.
two veterans of seventy years - Seyithan Isaev and Solyar - will receive state awards in Astana.
adverse weather conditions and hard work led to a deterioration in his health.
In this regard, the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region will hold a number of important events this year.
The celebration was attended by kha members, heads of ethno-cultural organizations of the region "Friendship House of the Zhambyl region akim's office," representatives of the gardens, the department of internal policy of the region reported.
we want to preserve all requirements and environmental standards and implement these goals within two to three years, "he said. bird.
In order to bring it into line with the standards specified in the bill, the deputies amended the Labour Code, administrative offences and the Penal Enforcement Code. in order to comply with the rules set forth in the bill the mps have amended the labour code , the code of administrative offences and the criminal code of the republic of kazakhstan .
we saw how professionally the precinct election commissions work.
In this regard, the Association of Turkish Entrepreneurs expressed interest and readiness to provide comprehensive assistance in the framework of events to ensure the participation of representatives in the exhibition.
the mobile personal account contains information on the location of the citizen, place of residence and registration, entry into the legal entity, marriage, absence of fines for violation of traffic rules, as well as on existing real estate or transport, etc.
The speaker emphasized that it is necessary to justify the constant desire and confidence of the president in the deputy corps and to fulfill all the duties assigned to him with honor.
The Department of State Revenues in the city of Astana checks trading houses and markets of the capital with a high share of the "shadow" economy.
The legality and transparency of voting in these and other places are monitored by representatives of the central election commission and independent observers.
It is worth noting that thanks to the exhibition "Azhar - art pages of history" it was possible to see beautiful works of Kazakh artists.
This year, by decree of the Head of State, a number of citizens received state awards that were awarded the gratitude of all those present, "he said.
In addition, the head of state noted that the holding of early presidential elections was primarily proposed by gentle people.
according to him, materials that can be heard and learned at the financial academy are also published on this site.
Thanks to the State policy, peace and tranquillity had been established, freedom of religion had been guaranteed, and all conditions had been created for the development of the languages and traditions of ethnic groups living in a large family called Kazakhstan.
the purpose of the bill is to increase the transparency of the tariff-forming process and the activities of subjects of natural monopolies, ensure that subjects of natural monopolies fulfill investment obligations, eliminate unreasonable losses and optimize tariff procedures, protect consumer rights, simplify procedures for considering applications and making decisions by an authorized body, the report said.
the plant is equipped with installations of European production, which will allow to produce high-quality and durable products, "he said.
At the Agricultural and Technical College, the Deputy Prime Minister met with students from the regions of our country who are studying the momentum program.
companies of the oil and gas industry, enterprises of the energy complex and railway transport are the main consumers of these products.
thus, the creation of the situation will actually increase the demand for specific goods and works and services.
the implementation of institutional reforms at this moment is a timely and important measure, "said the deputy chairman of the ethnocultural association.
theatrical art maximally reveals the activities of aktobe and neighboring regions.
Recall that in February this year, representatives of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan carried out measures to verify the military service of units stationed in Germany.
and actors of the regional Russian drama theater, the South Kazakhstan Drama Theater named after M. Shanina, the State Republican Uighur Musical Comedy Theater named after Kuzhamyarov, the Republican State Theater of Political Comedy, the Republican German Drama Theater and Uzbek Drama Thears.
at the same time, it should be noted that electronic application services provide parallel services on the web portal of "e-government" and the service of "judicial cabinet."
we, the children of the front-line soldiers, as victorious heroes, liberation soldiers, bear our heads in front of our fathers and mothers, who forever inscribed their names in the world record, "said K. Tokayev.
Thanks to values such as the integrity of the people, stability, peace and harmony, which you have been paying attention to since the first day of independence, like the head of state, Kazakhstan has formed as a competitive, powerful state.
Deputies elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting of the parliament.
In the central district hospitals of Zhezkazgan and with. Ulytau carried out major repairs, additionally purchased the necessary medical equipment.
for this, the authors more deeply studied the history of Vov, memoirs of famous Soviet commanders, documentaries and feature films and literary materials.
for the next fight, where I am preparing, I gave you my voice, "the author writes.
During the event, guests got acquainted with the museum of capital rescuers and firefighters, the history of the Astana garrison.
At the same time, the inflation rate was 7%, and according to the results of 11 months - 6.4%.
In addition, the domestic delegation informed about the upcoming expo-2017 in our country.
the museum-reserve has preserved a comprehensive collection of ancient archaeological, archetical monuments.
Nursultan Nazarbayev received 8,833,250 votes, which is 97.75 percent of the votes that took part in the voting procedure.
the list drawn up for each zone will be sent to the government to consider the possibility of further employment of young people.
Today, the plant is closely connected with the leading research institutes of Germany, Russia and Belarus for the development of new recipes.
According to the passport, the record decline in hydrocarbon prices recorded by the end of last year is due to the emergence of new fields in Kazakhstan.
The head of the city met with militants in their homes, handed gifts to Vyacheslav Vasilievich Rasskazov, a young kypshakpaev, bow Nikolayevich Zhaykov and Viktor Ishmukhamedovich Bayzhanov.
the state pays great attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses among women.	the state fulfils a great work the women entrepreneurships cover more population .	0,73
Currently, work is underway to attract Armenians and Kyrgyz to the union.
the site contains unique information.	in russia there are 36 such websites today .	0,73
plant for production of construction materials of LLP "Business-Zhk"
it is necessary to increase the export potential of agricultural products, "he said.
a feature of this competition is genre diversity.
we fully support the programmes and strategy you have proposed and are convinced that we will continue to carry the banner of scientific and technological progress with honour.
our young people are more than veterans.
To date, the Kyrgyz side, with the support of Russia, has carried out work on ensuring priority customs checkpoints and organizing information exchange.
this is a good indicator, according to observers.
this is 0.1% of the total number of vaccinations.
this issue concerns all Astana residents.
this is not an easy profession.
if mining and metallurgical companies work, then small businesses also work.
hearing a heroic act, the leadership of the unit presented this soldier to the state award.
Following the meeting with Kazzinc LLP and domestic producers - Uralenergotsvetmet LLP, Rating LLP, Sinetik JSC signed 8 memoranda worth 51 billion tenge.
transfer of project expertise to a competitive environment.
the decrease in imports was 42.3%.
Head of the Department of Journalism and Philology, HSE, Professor a.r. As Beisembayev noted in his speech, the Russian language becomes the main resource of communicative competence of citizens of the Eurasian space.
The head of state in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - the way to the future" noted that youth is the future of the country.
conducting comprehensive training sessions with snipers will be a good school for joint actions and a guarantor of successful fulfillment of tasks.
he was president of A.D. under the leadership of Nazarbayev noted the systemic development of Kazakhstan.
the train is full.
Xi jinping stressed that Kazakhstan and China should still promote and implement many projects in various areas of integration.
B. According to him, a number of projects are planned to be launched this year.
that is, the activity of scientists is growing.
550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Constitution, 70th anniversary of the great victory.
concertmaster of our participants - Olga Chechneva.
He noted that khp has extensive experience in participating in presidential and parliamentary campaigns.
According to the ministry, during the conversation, topical issues of the development of bilateral trade and economic relations were considered, as well as the agenda of the upcoming meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, which will be held in early February in Moscow, was discussed.
In order to ensure the effective use of new technologies and the full implementation of the expert task, the Shel concern will create conditions for expert support and training of specialists of the new laboratory in 2015 on several stages of training at the Shell Paradise Center in Golandia, "the institute's staff said in a presentation.
According to Fr. Aimakula, three of his older brothers went to war.
Also, guests of the exhibition will be able to get acquainted with the work of a bisexual.
change color, learn, avoid one-sided.
constitutional reform is expected in society, or rather, strengthening the role of parliament, improving the transparency of the state apparatus, increasing adequate social intervention in the life of the state, and expanding local self-government.
The event was attended by artistic groups of ethnocultural centers of Astana city: performers, vocal groups and choral groups.
The parties agreed to intensify cooperation between academies and German institutions in the exchange of research results, advanced training programs and the publication of joint publications of teachers, and the holding of international conferences and seminars.
among them: abilkhan kastey, kulakhmet leather, the first Kazakhstani professional artist aisha galymbayeva, aubakir ismailov, regina gianova, khakimzhan nauryzbayev, anatolia, gunter gummel, yeshken sergebayev.
in the Karaganda region, daily duty in the direction of water level control did not stop. combined forces of karaganda region do not stop day and night patrolling and monitoring of the water level .
the first is a Ukrainian school, the second is amateur art, the third is a team of artisans, the fourth is the issue of the weekly Ukra Nski Novini in Ukrainian.
A member of the CHA believes that the formation of a public state through the mechanism of "open government," reducing the responsibility of state bodies, and increasing the activity of representatives of civil society in making important decisions in various areas of life.
you were able to raise all the difficulties of that difficult period with your tender shoulders.
perhaps, after a year of military service, the current young generation will join the ranks of the Kazakh troops as military personnel under the contract.
students who took 1-3 team and individual places are awarded diplomas, medals and cups of the city department of education, a branch of the Atoba RK and the Akzhelken yard club.
I want to thank the metropolitan Paralympians, who set an absolute record for medals in 12 Asian pairs, and those who prepared them. special thanks are to the paralympians of the capital , who set the absolute record on received medals at the 12th asian paralympics games in 2014 and those who prepare our sportsmen .
According to the linkage of the standard project "Skk" mm Mangistau region allocated 13 million tenge.
At the 42nd plenary session of the CIS, Commonwealth parliamentarians discussed topical issues related to countering technological terrorism, border security, health care, volunteering, audit activities, model legislation in the tourism sector.
The event was organized at the request of pharmaceutical specialists of the East Kazakhstan region.
Currently, 1.5 km have been mined and pipe laying is underway.
in the interest rate, this is about 5.2%.
the agreement is bilateral and its purpose is to prevent double taxation and tax evasion.	the agreement is a bilateral international treaty and is signed with the purpose of double taxation avoidance .	0,73
In addition, as the Bortnik added, as part of the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization, the creation of a national cluster for the production and processing of oil and gas, oil and gas chemistry, and mechanical engineering will continue.	according to him , work on the formation of a national cluster mining and processing of oil and gas , petrochemical , oil and gas engineering will be continued as part of the second five-year industrialization .	0,73
the width of the four-lane road is 9 meters, sidewalks will also be laid on the side of the road.	besides , the sidewalks will be constructed there .	0,73
In addition, he noted that over the past 4 years, funding for education has increased by 2 times and the amount of snow allocated to the field of science has increased by 2.5 times.	b.saparbayev also stressed that only the last 4 years , education funding increased by 2 times , science - 2 , 5 times .	0,73
they coped with honor with duties to the people, leaving disrespectful feats to future generations, "says J. Baktybaev.
At the same time, as Turgankulov added, the CEC registers candidates.
The naval forces of the armed forces of Kazakhstan are not just a type of activity, work or action.
in Pavlodar region there are many fencing masters, we saw them. the pavlodar region is rich with artists .
In turn, the German business community noted that Kazakhstan has created a serious legal and institutional framework necessary for the influx of foreign investment.
if maternal love prevails in each family, then the whole country will be divided into harmony of harmony and prosperity.
in addition, in the cars "business," "grand" there are necessary items for travel (toothpaste, brushes, scallops, fats, balls and others) and special children's sets.
The main fight of the competition will be a duel between kenny herner and Sergey hariton.
The head of state also drew attention to the priority development of the agricultural complex.
Infrastructure development affects the strengthening of external relations.	infrastructure development will contribute enhancing the trade relations and international cooperation .	0,73
as part of the carmaker 40 people.	the autocaravan includes about 40 people .	0,73
According to him, there are state programs to support small and medium-sized enterprises, thereby you can increase your profession. nowadays there are many support programs for small and medium-sized businesses , they can be used to expand production , " the governor said .
Since the beginning of last year, 4,000 local entrepreneurs have received the council.
As for my impression, it was a very working day, organized in accordance with the order, and I see that Kazakhstanis fully used democratic voting rights. as for my experience , it was a pretty busy day , and i see that the people of kazakhstan fully exercise their democratic right to elect .
These funds were spent on medical equipment, which saved the lives of about 70 children in 2014.
The standard approach is to create the ability to work with standard tools. objects of support are the subjects of small , average and large enterprises .
As part of the memorandum ceremony, representatives of the Center for International Programs organized a presentation on the activities of the company and the main directions of the international scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Future."
also gave a number of instructions to further improve the quality of emergency medical care and other medical services, reduce the sequence in clinics, and also instructed to develop a medical support program for the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017.
The head of state stressed the historical proximity of the peoples of Kazakhstan and Hungary.
Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan A.Sarinzhipov and Minister of Education and Science of the Russian Federation d.livanov signed an agreement on the provision of 6 schools and 1 kindergartens in the city of Baikonur in Moscow today.
On the same day, the Kazakh delegation held talks with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Malaysia.
In addition, in order to help farmers in conducting a harvesting campaign, the Harvest-2015 program will be introduced to receive domestic harvesters on preferential terms.
According to him, Kazakhstan can be an objective competitor in certain areas, nevertheless, most of the interests will be common.
cooperation between eastern Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic in the category of developed industrial zones opens up new opportunities. " zhigova.
According to Vasily Rozinov, chairman of the regional council of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region, new processed industries will not only increase agricultural productivity, but also improve the quality of life of local residents.
As noted in the report, Kazakhstan is confident that the agreement on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is the core of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the global security regime and needs its comprehensive improvement.
and veterans who for health reasons could not come, medals were awarded in houses.
there are ATMs, terminals and special cells that can be rented.
now I can exchange views and thoughts in the state language without problems, "said Garif Mirzaevich.
In this regard, the propaganda of the rich historical and cultural heritage of our country will become an important factor in the development of socio-cultural tourism, "the minister said.
According to the new model of criminal law and criminal procedure approved by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, improved legislation on administrative offenses and a unified State plan of action for the transition to the system of execution of criminal penalties, in connection with the adoption of new revisions of codes on criminal, criminal procedure, criminal enforcement and administrative offenses, the Supreme Court has completed the monitoring of regulatory decisions.
I am sure that thanks to you, the Kazakh economy will become one of the most dynamically developed in the world.	i also want to congratulate the people of kazakhstan .
as part of our school activities, we offer them assistance in resolving these issues.
therefore, I approve a special order of labor glory, consisting of three levels.
R.Zhoshybayev noted the importance of the participation of Norway, which is one of the world leaders in alternative and renewable sources of energy.
a. Daulbaev also noted that this important event is a reflection of the progressive development of legal relations with the European community and confidence in the legal system of Kazakhstan.
The Austrian side positively assessed the dynamic development of Kazakhstan, expressed great interest in the possibilities of integration with the Republic of Kazakhstan and expressed hope for the development of mutually beneficial cooperation.
Vasily Shkurenko during the war years provided communication for brave pilots.
The main priority of Kazakhstan's chairmanship in the CIS is ensuring continuity.	ensuring of continuity is the main priority of kazakhstan 's chairmanship in the cis in 2015 .	0,73
16 of the 22 existing customs agreements are in the Customs Code.	16 agreements of 22 existing agreements on customs matters are codified in the customs code .	0,73
Also, according to the information center, on the basis of the central pool on the street. Satpaev will open a sports school for 1,500-2,000 visits.	in addition , this spring it is planned to open new physical culture school on aquatics on the basis of the central swimming pool with a contingent of 1,500 to 2,000 students .	0,73
According to the Governor's Office of North Kazakhstan region, about 2 thousand jobs were created during the construction, and at the time of commissioning - 1400 jobs.	near two thousand workplaces for construction period and over 1400 jobs for exploitation period have been created .	0,73
On the outskirts, the rural public confidently looks at the coming days and connects its bright future with the steel path, the report said.
Representatives of the association of legal entities "Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan" made an official statement in support of this initiative.
graduated from the forestry department.
The competition was organized by the public fund "kazakhstanibbivation" with the support of the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region and Akimat of Akmola region.
According to the head of the Kyrgyz government, the country intends to implement all measures to eliminate customs, sanitary-veterinary, phytosanitary control at the Kyrgyz-Kazakh customs section.
According to the information center, the production technology for the manufacture of calcium hydroxide of Kazkhimtehsnab LLP is being modernized in Kurchatov.
for example, 10,530 students will be trained at a basic university.
The repair of roads of the regional and district levels continues.
the country needs chemical engineers, qualified specialists who are able to work both in mining enterprises and in processing enterprises.
the main goal is to teach young people the basics of entrepreneurship, train students in business and familiarize themselves with the achievements of young entrepreneurs in the region.
in addition to financial support for business entities, work is underway to "strengthen entrepreneurial potential" in terms of their service support.
In addition, the head of state noted the need for trust in officials.
In addition, the activities of advisory bodies, national and regional youth forums, social infrastructure and social services for young people, and the services of youth resource centers are identified as mechanisms for the formation and implementation of State youth policy.
The meeting was attended by Director of the Department of Renewable Energy of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan Ainur Saparbekova, as well as representatives of existing energy facilities and implementing projects planned for 2015-2020.
As the Vice Minister noted, the meeting considers "amending some legislative acts to ensure migration work."
According to him, the ministry pays only after an examination of the quality and volume of services of medical organizations.
this relay race is held in 4 directions, the length of each of which is from 400 to 600 kilometers.
we are open to investments that any entrepreneur can master.
education and science, a civilized state, a tolerant country, and here are our values, "the head of state added.
The purpose of the course was to train participants in special language courses in peacekeeping operations with steam support for multinational headquarters.
therefore, patriotism is manifested in the film, "said R. Suleimenov.
According to the ministry, further cooperation of the ministry with the Unisef Fund will be aimed at the exchange of experience, including the creation of successful projects and programs implemented in Kazakhstan.
The head of the "Higher School of Economics" of the slave center of the National Research Institute Daniil Tsygankov told the seminar participants about the advantages of the rab procedure, giving specific examples.
without innovators there will be no innovation.
The bill proposes to establish a privatization tool based on the transfer of state functions and companies to the private sector, as well as principles that determine the degree of state participation in entrepreneurial activities.
As part of his visit to eastern Kazakhstan, the Belgian Ambassador visited a number of enterprises and scientific and educational institutions of a growing generation.
According to representatives of the local akimat, in the two-story building, where about 600 small shops (boutiques) are located, there are all the necessary conditions for trade.
We are confident that Kazakhstan under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev will without any doubt achieve even greater success, "the authors write.
The parties also noted the importance of intensifying the interaction of the legislative bodies of the two countries in a combination of informatization and lawmaking.
After the war, he worked as an assistant driver at a gas processing plant.
The election commission is guided by the observance of international principles and, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, opens an international institute for observers of early presidential elections, he added.
akim congratulated him on his anniversary and wished him a long life and health.
In addition, he warned that the work should be treated not only in the scope of the department.
for guests of the house, hotel and congress center.
According to the Ministry, in the regions of Pavlodar region work is underway to restore roads, in the North Kazakhstan region flood water monitoring continues on mudflows.
The Ministry of Education and Science, together with local executive bodies, has determined the number of schools being built to eliminate emergency and three-shift schools at the expense of the national fund.
in total, more than a thousand people will put in order the territory of the administrative building of the Republic of Kazakhstan, military units and institutions, wide streets and avenues of the capital, as well as the village of Ilinka.
Crown Prince, Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Saudi Arabia, Minister of the Interior Muhammad and Naif Abdulaziz al Saudov congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan and wished good health and well-being, and well-being to the people of Kazakhstan.
The head of the department also noted that 2015 projects with permanent employment of 75 thousand citizens will be implemented in 75.
ex-President of Croatia s. mesic said that "nұrly zhol" is a strategic document that determines the great opportunities for the development of Kazakhstan.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, during negotiations with the Adviser to the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan reported on the main directions of the activities of the Kazakh Prosecutor's Office to ensure law and order, protect human rights and freedoms.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, recently he worked as an assistant to the first secretary of the regional committee of the party.
Let me express my sincere wish to you to be the most successful in fulfilling your high mission, "the telegram says.
On the eve of the great victory on May 8-10 at the Abai Palace of Peace and Harmony in Alma-Ata, a recital of the soloist of the State Opera and Ballet Theater "Astana Opera" of the sage's mary will be held.
the election company passes quietly within the framework of the current legislation. the election campaign was held in correct , quite environment under the current legislation .
the solemn meeting completed the ceremony of awarding employees of the central apparatus who went on leave of honor.
Also, the opening of a store in the capital was chosen due to the priority economic stability of the city.
As the head of state noted, there is currently a tendency to move from inclusive education to an inclusive society.
It allowed to modernize the existing capacity of 5 thousand mW, as well as launch additional 1700 mW of capacity.
relays, events begin, where the audience investigation of the "ank-20 bright case!" Will continue.
As the youth goodwill ambassador for Eastern Europe and Central Asia, the Brezhnev faith is participating in activities aimed at raising public awareness on HIV prevention.
thus, 72.15% of the total number of shares issued to the market are individual investors, 1.54% are market makers and 26.31% are white "brushes."
The President of the Senate answered questions and presented the Senate Certificate of Honor to teachers of a well-known and prestigious educational institution.
in my opinion, nauryz will give humanity a new impetus. i think that nauryz celebration has made ordinary human association for everyone .
gas at this field is sent to a kazazot plant for the production of mineral fertilizers. gas from the field will be used by kazazot company , which produces mineral fertilizers .
railway line "borzhakty-ersay," providing access to the ferry complex in the village of Kuryk.
The Attorney General of Thailand noted the high degree of cooperation between the two countries in the field of tourism, which indicates daily visits to Almaty-Bangkok and the capital-Bangkok.
The Party of Patriots of Kazakhstan with great responsibility belongs to the upcoming presidential election on April 26, 2015. the party of patriots of kazakhstan takes the early presidential elections with the responsibility .
Being in the meadow and taraz garrisons of the southern regional command, the chief of the general staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan checked the progress of bringing the units to a high level of combat readiness.
Chairman of the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General of the Second Century, veteran of the Great Patriotic War and the Fire Service, Mereiger s.k. congratulated Kusenov on his 100th anniversary and presented the badge "for his contribution to the development of the emergency system."
Speaking with an additional report, the senator noted that the adoption of the document will allow the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union to create conditions for the further development of economic integration in order to improve the standard of living of their peoples.
citizens came here to fulfill their civic duty. people came to discharge their civic duty .
I always believed that the mentality of Ukrainians is somewhat similar to Kazakh.
The volume of processed milk by mid-2016 will be 60-701 thousand tons.
The head of state also drew attention to the great potential of Kazakh culture, which they managed to recognize both inside and outside the country.
Russian partners supply components for assembling a small tractor. since june , we negotiated that culminated in the signing of the contract .
The legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to fill the legal gaps "on special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries" by amending and supplementing the draft law, it is proposed to regulate the exchange/transfer of secret information by state bodies authorized to interact with the Eurasian Economic Commission, bodies higher from national bodies received from other state bodies, and international organizations.
currently, about four thousand people live in the tent camp.
In honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, military personnel prepare many actions, social events, commemorative gifts and continue to care for front-line soldiers.
in the warehouse room there are historical works, images of heroes and priestesses, works of life of the nomadic country.
In 2014-2015, 250 companies visited the chamber, which provided data on demand for 9,000 vacancies in various specialties.
To participate in the ceremony, a special delegation arrived from the city of Ljungan (PRC) under the leadership of the secretary of the Yang Xinshi party committee.
Of course, this step will allow Kazakhstan not only to become a leader in the region in socio-economic terms, but also to increase competitiveness.
Additionally, in 2015, it is planned to begin work on 150 km.
The meeting also discussed the inclusion of third-country enterprises in a special list and mutual exchange of information when included in this list, joint control over the situation on the external borders of the EAEU.
positive trend in attracting investments, lending to SMEs.
The agreement provides for financing for 2015-2016 the supply of at least 200 units of buses equipped with modern passenger information systems, electronic ticketing, a passenger traffic accounting system, and a system for transporting people with disabilities.
Due to favorable weather conditions this year, farmers began sowing earlier.
Chairman of the Senate, Head of the Secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. will speak at the presentation of this forum at the UN.
Almaty region, which took the baton, continued it with a charity event "warmth of heart."
Also, for the first time in video anthology, you can hear musical works by Kazakh performers from the Great Patriotic War.
the presentation of the computer program took place on the basis of the ambulance station in Uralsk.
The central office and foreign institutions are preparing as planned for the celebration of jubilees.
Noting that participation in the memorial relay is an honorary mission for Kazakhstan, the chairman of the Senate noted that "the 70th anniversary of victory in the most severe war in the history of mankind is a common victory of the entire Soviet people in the fight against fascism."
I signed a decree on the assignment of the highest military and special ranks, class ranks on the eve of the great holiday of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War. "
in this regard, e. Idrissov called on ambassadors to take an active part in these events.
Among those present were such famous figures as the People's Artist of Kazakhstan nurgali nusupzhanov, academician sergeaz adeken, ex-depudat, public figure.
During the meeting, issues related to the formation of the Kazakh people, the role of the priest and kerey related to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate were discussed.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the purpose of this competition is to increase teaching skills, form methodological innovations for the study of the Kazakh language, develop folk pedagogy, and promote learning experience.
funding for reforms in the social sphere is not declining, despite the difficult situation in the economy that is happening today. the financing of social reforms , namely the implementation of " employment roadmap " will be continued in 2015 .
The message of the head of state "Nұrly zhol" also speaks of how the country is moving forward.
The ceremony of raising the flag of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will end with a theatrical performance, a flash mob, the launch of air and helium balls with kha emblems.
Modernization of the country's pension system will continue this year.
our mothers were forced to remarry during the war.
our ethnocultural associations and their leaders contribute to strengthening friendship and harmony among the peoples living in Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the lecture is to increase the popularity of Kazakhstan's model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony. Nazarbayev, familiarization with the mechanisms of conducting domestic ethnopolitics, the history of education, tasks and activities at the present stage, constitutional status.
As noted, the draft revised budget for 2015-2017 was submitted to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan's unity must be strengthened at the heart of each religion. kazakhstan 's identity must get stronger on the basis of the best spiritual values of each religion .
thus, each member of an international organization provides information on the most common issues on antimonopoly policy.
Thus, by the end of the year, 492 objects will be privatized, taking into account sales growth, "said R. Dalenov.
First of all, dismissed citizens, if any, are placed in the identified jobs.	projects realized as a part of  nurly zhol " program and a number of created workplaces in terms of region are determined now , " the head of the ministry said .
according to the plan, a survey of the cost of housing of the category "energy efficiency" under construction in the city of Karaganda is being carried out.
As part of the parliamentary hearings, the words of the head of Pavlodar Petrochemical Plant LLP Shukhrat Danbai and the head of the Kazenerga Association of the Magauov Council, as well as the chairman of the board of the Kazakhstan Fuel Association 1, will be heard.
In general, 7,200 farms, which have 217,930 cattle, are engaged in breeding an akbass cow.
Currently, nine types of military service services are available to military personnel through the e-government system.
Since then, special shelves have appeared in all universal stores of the region, where domestic currents are sold.
Representatives of the mission also met with the leadership of the republican public commission to control the early presidential elections.
The event began with a theatrical performance of friendship and cooperation of all ethnic groups living in the seventies.
The business and scientific environment of the silicone plane was adopted with particular enthusiasm.
in particular, the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of young people, the involvement of young people in the socio-economic and socio-political life of the country, the education of citizenship and the strengthening of a sense of Kazakhstani patriotism, "the Minister of Education and Science said.
In the village of Kazakhmys, mini-scenes for talented people and places for various sports competitions are provided.
by orders of the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan: Abjapparov was appointed to the post of rector of the Republican State Enterprise on the right of economic management of Kokshetau State University named after Ualikhanov.
But it is impossible to stop, the reform will bring out a national economy based on knowledge, "the head of state said.
these concepts cannot be viewed differently.
In addition, it is envisaged to strengthen control work at customs control points, airports, train stations and large highways for the export of fish products outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for violating the rules of the road, residents of aul, Lisakov and ore cities will pay fines through the district, and residents of the auliekol, Karabakh and Dzhangelin regions will pay more taxes, "the report said.
President's Conference in order to realize the important tasks set by Nazarbayev in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Way to a bright future," develop the institution of the family and improve its status, promote family values, as well as develop cooperation between family and school.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Spanish Kingdom Duissenbayev bakhyt amangeldiula was appointed to the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Principality of Andorra, the decree says.
Adaptation of these facilities will create an unhindered environment for disabled people, the elderly and wheelchair women who experience difficulties in the absence of ramps and elevators in state organizations, narrow doorways and high thresholds, the report said.
In general, the meeting emphasized that the main task of the East Cossacks should be management, agreeing on the implementation of five presidential reforms.
Preliminary consultations have now been held with the Asian Development Bank and interested government bodies and organizations.
In addition, the number of graduates in 38 secondary special educational institutions of the region amounted to 8,376 people.
currently, work has begun on the construction of lower and upper stages in the area of ​ ​ the sarcan - 1, lepsi - 2, door audio - 1 and a bioelectric station in the area of ​ ​ Enbekshikazak.
According to the Governor's Office, fuel and lubricants and fertilizers are being mined in the region, preparations are underway for other sowing campaigns.
our pavilion is visited by an average of 4 thousand 500 - 5 thousand people. "
these contacts demonstrate our commitment to strengthening trade and economic relations.
so he gave my name the same name, and I'm proud of that name.
The event aimed at celebrating the decade of rapprochement of international cultures from 2013 to 2022 will be held as part of the 70th anniversary of UNESCO.
funds from attraction were used for financial recovery, leasing of agricultural equipment, purchase of cattle.
further launch of the spacecraft into orbit will be carried out thanks to the acceleration unit, "the report said.
repeatedly elected as a deputy of the Supreme Council of the Kazakh SSR.
more than 60 officers of all regional commands and military branches came to test their professional qualifications and command qualities.
the second state is accountable to the paid state or removes the mandatory tax on part of the income paid in another state, "the report said.
the airport of the capital this year will increase the capacity to 3.5 million people.
before the government, I set 5-6 specific indicators.
the new agreement should provide for the creation of a new security system based on mutual interest, the practical implementation of the positions of the Astana declaration, "said N. Nazarbayev.
For 1 day, 16 people turned to the center for supporting entrepreneurs in the Sandyktau region.
My parents plan to take part in the festive procession in Astana.
representatives of the Hindu religion confirmed their participation in the congress, noting the important role of the congress held in the capital in maintaining interethnic and interreligious relations in the international arena.
therefore, given the social significance of the implementation of these projects, the Water Resources Committee of the Governor's Office of the region supports the initiative of accelerated commissioning of this group water supply system.
According to experts, with the help of recycled raw materials technology, you can grow up to 40-120 tons of fish per year.
now the commission will include deputy prime ministers of the government responsible for the military production block. now the members of this committee will be the deputy prime minister in charge of the military-industrial unit .
Several entrepreneurs made proposals for further business activation.
It will be attended by Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Daulet Argandakov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Nurzhan Altai, Deputy Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions Kairat Aiandyks.
therefore, we need a "palace of celebrations."
the total cost of the fleet base is 500 million tenge.
opening the session, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Erik Sultanov noted that the head of state set new tasks for the assembly.
353.8 km of utility networks were put into operation during the reporting period, including: 78.3 km of power supply networks, 234.2 km of water supply, 0.5 km of sewerage networks and 40.8 km of gas supply networks.
domestic products are not inferior in quality to Russian and Belarusian products.
The assistance train was created for residents of remote villages and villages that do not have clinics, equipped with modern medical equipment.
In addition, the vice-governor of the Omsk region Viktor Nazarov and members of the business delegation visited the elevator of the Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant, Shadow Export, the Zenchenko Dairy Plant and Ks LLP, met with entrepreneurs at the Development Entrepreneurs Service Center.
As the head of state noted, now we should strive for the leading economies of the world in terms of the quality of life of Kazakhstanis.
On the same day, the Majilismen approved a bill ratifying the Protocol amending the intergovernmental agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on the creation of the Baiterek space rocket system at the Baikonur cosmodrome of December 22, 2004.
a commercial organization distributes commercial revenue among its members, and a non-profit organization only because for statutory purposes a grant is free assistance not only from the state, but also from others, "he concluded.
g-global online platform - democratic platform. "- concluded the Sangerbek.
This year, in the message of the head of state, "Nұrly zhol" was instructed to eliminate emergency schools.
The share of industrial production in the republican volume is about 6%, 787 thousand tenge of industrial production is accounted for per resident of the region.
A 100% Kazakhstani company was initially focused on repairing partitions.
As part of the strategy, our work is not limited to punishing those who are involved in corruption.
in addition, an agreement has been reached to provide and implement support for the development of a consultation and funding mechanics in the creation of a related number with "kdk."
According to the press service of the Senate, the speaker instructed colleagues to study the plan of the nation and use it in modern legislative affairs.
According to K. Zhakupov, the development of import-substituting industries will give a new impetus to the economic development of the member states of the union.
Shymkent should have a personal theatrical life - this is the main task. shymken has to have its own cultural life- it is the key goal .
separate blocks of proposals for supporting enterprises in beam, sharp single-industry towns have been prepared.
if earlier sports in our children influenced the family budget, now we have the opportunity to visit for free, "said the parents of future champions.
for him the main mood.
the family had five children, youth survived the difficulties of life.
The guys prepared a concert program, and also said that they were looking forward to the next holidays.
in turn, the diversification of the economy began due to the accelerated development of the manufacturing industry.
The head of the region congratulated the children on the holiday and handed them New Year's gifts.
given this, I am tasked with providing the capital with my products.
In addition, it is planned to consider more than 20 draft documents in various areas of cooperation within the CIS.
According to Akmola Media Center, in 2014, 106 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned in Kokshetau and 19 facilities were repaired.
The data processing center (dno) is an infrastructure platform of the regional level for the electronic government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, all its engineering life support systems are stored in the reserve fund.
Chairmen of district and city project councils were awarded for information support in the media, organizing a draft campaign, as well as the formation of an information and propaganda group in the areas of public conscription for the military service of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
indeed, vko is one of the leading regions in your country. east kazakhstan region is a leader of the production in kazakhstan .
there will be baursak and nauryz kej at home, "said the chairman of the ethnic and cultural association of the Bashkir people of the Ural Aznabai.
thirdly, the financing of working capital for existing projects and the permission to increase lending to banks were not neglected.
From the date of entry into force of the treaty, the Republic of Armenia becomes a member of the Eurasian Economic Union and assumes the obligations stipulated by the treaty.
Today, we consider it advisable to expand the forum platform, given that in the context of the formation of the Eurasian economic space, not only youth but also women play a key role. this year we are expanding the platform of the forum considering the fact that today a special role in the formation of the eurasian economic space is given not only to young people but also women .
having raised three children, today they loved grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
representatives of the young youth wing opened a mobile station to register volunteers engaged in campaigning, graffitists wrote a welcoming letter for Kazakhstanis.
this will ensure parity of economic growth in various regions of the country.
Currently, this bill has been sent to the presidential administration for approval. the bill is being coordinated in the presidential administration .
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted the great history of Kazakh-Unisef relations, noting that the main goal of cooperation with the organization is to care for a person.
he is seen not only by our neighbors, but also by a couple.
now we also expect magnets from them from drawings of our regions.
Let it be forever! "-he said.
In turn, it will create a balanced common energy market for the countries of the union, expand and optimize interstate energy transportation and strengthen mutual cooperation between member countries of the European Economic Commission, "said a member of the board on energy and infrastructure of the Economic Commission for Europe.
cuts in general in any direction do not impede the fulfilment of the country's social objectives. the reductions in any direction in any case will not affect the social problems .
will also contribute to the development of investment and the tourism cluster.
The report also says that as part of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, 4 investment projects for the development of housing and communal services in the village of Zhizak were implemented, which contributed to the creation of 30 new jobs.
eaeo is open to the accession of each State, which may share its purposes and principles.
In addition, competitions and forums of socially significant projects, exhibitions and fairs of new initiatives are organized annually in the region.
Opening the fair, rector of the university, doctor of physical and mathematical sciences, professor, academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences, corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurlan Temirbekov noted that the effectiveness of this event has long been appreciated not only by graduates, but also by employer enterprises.
in the exercise of justice, the plenary session considers issues of compliance with the rule of law by the courts of the republic, on the basis of the study and synthesis of judicial practice, adopts regulatory decisions, provides clarifications on issues of judicial practice and makes proposals for improving legislation. the plenary session considers the rule of law while the administration of justice by the courts of the republic , adopts regulatory decisions , provides for explanations on the issues of judicial practice and makes suggestions to improve the legislation .
therefore, the opening of a new outpatient clinic for villagers is a long-awaited joy.
Participants in the court case are given the opportunity to hold a court hearing with a person who is being treated in health care organizations by videoconferencing without transportation to the court, "he said.
For example, if now the base price of the ticket for the Tulpar-talgo train from the capital is 14,054 tenge, then the price can be reduced to 9,223 tenge.
In addition, he noted that Kazakhstan has mastered 20.5 million tons of fatty carbon dioxide, which is 100.7% compared to the previous year.
Nevertheless, in order to prevent violations in the run-up to the elections, as well as on election day, we draw the attention of all participants in the electoral process to the following legislative norms.
The agenda considers the implementation of the action plan approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
there are issues that need to be addressed expeditiously.	we have discussed these issues and outlined the ways out from the situation .	0,74
Following the results of the fair, a briefing was held at which it was noted that this type of professional communication is necessary for teachers.	activities of teacher and his achievements are multifaceted , so this fair gives the opportunity to show pedagogical skills and to improve the image of the teacher .	0,74
The Kazakh diplomat thanked Romania for its constant support of our country's international initiatives, noting that its participation in the expo 2017 will contribute to the successful holding of the exhibition and will give a positive impetus to the international exhibition movement.
Therefore, it is necessary to be the first to eliminate the causes that can lead to the disease, "said J.Battakova.
its construction will immediately allow transshipment of cargo to countries adjacent to the Caspian region, and then to Europe without unloading from the car, "the report said.
ideas of heroism are an integral part of spiritual and cultural tourism, so we must support it, foreigners look at how we live in this culture, "he concluded.
equal conditions have been created for them with state organizations, an attractive tariff has been proposed.
everyone is worried about the future of their state, about children and grandchildren, because he believes that the future life of each Kazakhstani depends on the Kazakh leader.
During this period, residents of 7 stations turned to help qualified specialists and received more than 20 thousand doctors.
Also, an exhibition was held at the entrance of the House of Culture, at which books about the Great Patriotic War, fairy-tale monuments and ammunition were exhibited.
K. Zhakupov noted that deputies of the Majilis and various sections of Kazakh society support the holding of elections taking into account the achievements of the country and the situation in the world.
More than 300 people were invited to 2 victory parades on Red Square, including veterans from countries near and far abroad.
In connection with the crisis and the situation in the Russian Federation, of which we are the main partner, we are revising our internal plan. due to the crisis related to the sanctions and economic consequences of our main trading partner russia , we 've reviewed some of our internal plans , including the plan on labor .
On behalf of the President, a plan of measures was developed in Almaty region to revive the cultivation of corn and aport, tomatoes. the complex of measures on reviving of sugar beet growing and growing of apples and maize in almaty region is developed on behalf of the president .
It is expected that the kindergarten will be ready in November this year.
at the first stage of the competition, firing from a Makarov pistol (pm) was provided.
his visit led to friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Hungary.
In this regard, the senator expressed gratitude for the official invitation to participate in the conference.
students presented various research issues and new directions for their solution.
the holding of the republican contest "Police аруы.kz" has become a tradition over the past eleven years.
Over the past 20 years, about 8 thousand young Kazakhstanis have been trained in the best educational institutions in the world, the Deputy Prime Minister said.
first of all, overhaul of the administrative buildings of the airport. first of all we need to overhaul all the administrative buildings of the airport .
he, like many of his former graduates, came to the fair as an employer.
work on the principle of "one window" saves the time of each citizen, "said the director of the enterprise support institution in the Zhambyl region asan nightmambets.
According to the Mayor's Office, during the reporting period, 5,1107 people turned to the public service, of which 6,895 - through the Central Control Service, 44,212 - to the state agencies themselves or their subordinate departments.
in the morning I noticed that there were a lot of people who came to the polling stations and hurried to vote.
In his speech, B. Saparbayev noted that in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, large-scale work has begun on concluding memoranda on mutual cooperation between the akimats of the regions and large enterprises to stabilize production processes and ensure labor rights and guarantees of workers.
in one of these centers, legal assistance is provided to entrepreneurs, in another you can find out about the measures provided by the state, such as banking, technical specifications.
70th anniversary of the great victory.
they: private Lunar baimukhametova, sergeant aigerim karakushikova, senior lieutenant aliyah khairulina, senior lieutenant bot of the ship, private aidai usenova, ordinary flower garden of the fireplace.
At the same time, 576 jobs will be created and 319 people will be employed through the employment center, "the report said.
The opening ceremony of the symbol will take place in the coming days, during which the participants of the twentieth session will be informed about the good deeds done in all regions of the country where the Taikazan occurred.
According to the press service of the Mayor's Office of the city, akim of the city Akhmetzhanov, representatives of the sphere of culture and art, residents of the city took part in the event.
he expressed confidence that the new leadership of the country will be able to implement full-fledged reforms aimed at improving the well-being of the Afghan people.
in case of decrease of oil production volumes in the reporting period, the Republic of Kazakhstan envisages its increase in subsequent years. in spite of the decline of rates of oil production it 's planned to increase the rate of oil production next years .
From 1943 until the end of the war, he fought against the Japanese samurai as part of the 298th Infantry Division on the coast of Lake Baikal.
According to the department, last year 36 criminal cases were opened and more than 1 billion tenge was reimbursed.
Recall that the events are held in the village of Borovoye of the tourism center of Kazakhstan in the Akmola region.
The Deputy Prime Minister was also informed about the state of primary health care, the state of queues in clinics, as well as the awareness of citizens about the prevention and treatment of diseases, and the establishment of effective feedback with the population.
As of mid-April, more than 76 thousand memoranda with medium and small enterprises with a total number of employees of more than 1.3 thousand people were concluded in the Kyzylorda region. as of mid-april in kyzylorda region 1300 memorandums with medium and small enterprises were concluded with a total number of employees more than 76 thousand people , " - b.saparbayev said .
As stated in the conclusion of the relevant committee, minimum social standards and guarantees are intended to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens in the field of labor, health, education, culture, sports and the provision of guaranteed state legal assistance.
It is worth noting that in the army sergeants allow you to develop command abilities.
In addition, the methodology for regulating the work of the Commission will be properly elaborated and approved before the end of the session.
Also, the summit participants will discuss the development of alternative energy.
At the same time, as the leader of the nation noted, Kazakhstan maintains friendly relations with its neighbors, which in turn guarantees the diplomatic security of the state.
historical places of the region and cities are included in the UNESCO World Heritage List.
Currently, the company's products are in great demand in the capital and Karaganda region.
this is improving the business structure, removing administrative barriers, improving the quality of workers, and so on, "said l.butenko.
I think it's fair to devote a whole year to the assembly. i suppose it is fair to say the whole 2015 year granted the name of the assembly .
I urge you to love our homeland and to serve it mercilessly.
Deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the General Prosecutor's Office and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, well-known archaeologists, specialists in the field of restoration of monuments, representatives of local executive bodies responsible for the protection and preservation of monuments are expected to participate.
of these, 5.9 billion tenge was allocated for the development of crop production and increased 2.0 times compared to the previous year, of which 827.7 million tenge was allocated for the development of crop production, 4458.3 million tenge for the development of livestock production.
modernization of production and production of competitive products.
In addition, a number of issues related to the organization of interstate passenger trains to both countries were raised.
in my opinion, we should not expect a further decrease in prices. i think that a further fall in prices is not expected .
this is the responsibility not only of the national border service, but also of local executive bodies and ministries and other competent authorities.
yurt was not only a convenient device for the resettlement of the Kazakh people, but also a symbol of family and hospitality.
The main purpose of the law is to improve the quality and accessibility of medical care, bringing existing legislation in line with international standards.
Nұr Otan is the way to the future. "
he paid special attention to the provision of housing for railway workers.
the dictionary contains more than 400 Kazakh and Russian-language words.
Issues of Kyrgyzstan's accession to the EAEU, as well as further expansion of the integration of countries within the union were discussed at the Epac meeting.
Observers of early presidential elections may participate in elections by presenting a document issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
the signing of the agreement, at the end of the domestic procedures of the two countries, will allow the Kazakh and American authorized bodies to provide each other with active legal assistance in the field of investigation, criminal prosecution and prevention of criminal offenses, as well as on conducting inspections in criminal cases.
the advantages of the coastal valley near the village of Kuryk are favorable climatic conditions, in particular, the instability of the pier, the expediency of the wind, sufficient depth, location in the city, the possibility of expanding production capacities, the presence of free territories for construction, the latitude of the transshipment deposit. the advantages of the coastal strip near the village kuryk is favorable climatic conditions , sufficient depth , distance from the city center , the opportunity to expand production capacity , the availability of free land for the construction , a wide range of products transshipped .
Many projects were also submitted to the coordinating council for consideration: the manufacture of plastic windows, the opening of a disinfectant plant, and the creation of a bakery product production.
According to the notification, the threshold for membership payments is planned to be reduced by 30% and halved.
This measure will contribute to the development of telecommunications systems within the framework of labor forces and business.
As Yerimbetov noted, now Kazakhstan and Russia plan to open public organizations on these issues.
The personnel of the department looked at the exhibits collected at the exhibition and made a great impression.
this is primarily due to the large number of registered generics from India, China and eastern Europe (cheap copies of originals of pharmaceuticals with expired patent protection).
if we talk about historical aspects, then 20 years is not so much.	according to her , provisions fixed in the constitution are long-term .	0,74
Islam Karimov also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan during a subsequent telephone conversation.	islam karimov also congratulated later nursultan nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election in the course of a telephone conversation later .	0,74
According to the results of the jury, the winner of the competition was a group of the department for the coordination of employment and social programs.	by the end of the show the jury named the best team , which became the department of employment and social programs .	0,74
according to him, initially there were problems with voting IDs.	according to him , there was a problem with absentee voting certificate .	0,74
According to a member of the KHA, a number of cultural events took place in the friendship house with the participation of defenders of the Fatherland.	according to him , the house of friendship held the meeting of generations , where the defenders of the homeland , youth of the ethnocultural associations were invited .	0,74
to this end, Thailand is interested in the further development of Kazakh-Thai cooperation in the field of tourism.	to this end , thailand is interested in further development of the kazakh-thai cooperation in the field of tourism .	0,74
Also, by the end of the year, it is planned to implement the project "Salt Production of Akmola Salt Company LLP" with a capacity of 30 thousand tons of products per year.
in winter he moves quickly in the snow.
if the situation in the world economy deteriorates, which will affect our economy, then reserve dedication will be used to stimulate economic growth, "said B. Sultanov.
so, the goods necessary for the construction of a land port are delivered to the railway line.
As part of the plenary session, the Deputy Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan also held a bilateral meeting with the Secretary General of iad and amine.
In addition, the initiative of Chinese President Xi Jinping to restore the economic belt of the great silk road is of interest.	along with this , k. massimov noted that the initiative of president xi jinping to establish the economic zones of the silk road is interesting .	0,74
3-ROOM apartment on 79.9 square meters. m, 2-room - 63 square meters. m and one-room - 46.23 square meters. m	the house has 3 bedroom apartments with 79.9 square meters , 2-room apartment - 63 square meters and one-room 46.23 square meters .	0,74
Recall that on the main square of the capital, the Kazakh country "is holding a military parade with the participation of the head of state.
Mayor of the metropolis noted that the idea of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to create a municipal bus fleet for Almaty is of great importance and supported by the residents of the city.
Therefore, if the new school under construction is put into operation, students will be able to study in both schools in one shift.
optimization of the state budget will not affect the social responsibility of the state to the population, pensions and social benefits will be increased.
to do this, it is planned to build an extension to the cinema of an additional two-story building.
at the meeting of the commission, information was heard on the economic situation in the Republic of Kazakhstan and Romania, the presence of the potential of bilateral cooperation in various areas of the economy necessary for further development was emphasized, the report said.
The Minister also spoke about the measures taken to ensure the legislative basis of dual education, the mechanisms for the implementation and modernization of technical and vocational education.
Since the beginning of this event, a regular reader of the library has discovered information about the brotherly cemetery in which his father is buried.
The purpose and tasks of this charity concert are to promote Kazakhstan's inter-ethnic tolerance, ensure national unity and social harmony, strengthen the status of the people as a civil and public institution, respect for labor veterans, the report said.
Governor of the region K. Sherbayev took part in the solemn event.
Therefore, I want to say that we should effectively use the assistance provided by the government, that the work is large-scale, they should be treated with great responsibility, "said Governor of the region A. Batalov.
and we have potential.
According to the Vice Minister, the project will be implemented as part of the construction of an industrial petrochemical park, currently under construction in Atyrau region.
By this we will achieve the production of high-quality and safe dairy products.
The participants noted that the local executive bodies have established effective cooperation on the formation of education, health care, the state language and Kazakhstani patriotism.
aa. Idrissov noted Kazakhstan's interest in creating a national center for chemical safety and noted the opportunity to become a regional center in the future.
we will make the necessary efforts to make your visit effective, agreements were reached on specific areas of our cooperation, "the head of state said.
The region is one of the leading regions of tourist local history, and 14 of 35 centers for youth tourism in Kazakhstan are engaged in patriotic education here.
and a special commission to calculate the expenses of citizens whose houses were flooded began its work.	they work to strengthen and build dams held in the villages of the south , aktau , karagora and abay districts  - a.sovetov added .
thus, one-time payments are provided to 109 awarded home front workers and a citizen not awarded 1 thousand 26.
each rule, each rule has maximum legal force and must be strictly implemented.
To date, this project is considered one of the most successful.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that many outstanding persons in science and art and other fields left the village.
During the meeting, the main directions of the Nұrly zhol program, the implementation of state and sectoral programs, the development of medical tourism, as well as the creation of a radiological medical holding as part of the execution of the instructions of the head of state were discussed.
new public transport of the latter type corresponds to demand.
of these, 4 houses are built at the expense of budget funds and 2 on the principle of public-private partnership.
interested citizens can fully participate in this event, demonstrate their characteristics and talents.
In particular, within the framework of this program, work will be carried out on the modernization of housing and communal services, the development of the capital's infrastructure.
Speaking at the meeting, the Governor noted that in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, a wide range of measures are being taken between akimats and large enterprises to stabilize production processes and approve memoranda to ensure labor rights and guarantees of workers.
until the last moment, he remained a great artist who did not express with his sister or movement, which did not bother him.
We dedicate this international boxing tournament to the legendary national hero, the army general.	the almaty training center held the xix international boxing tournament in memory of halyk kaharmany , army general sagadat nurmagambetov .	0,74
1037 houses out of 2030 were flooded in the Karaganda region, 56 houses were destroyed.	in karaganda region 56 houses are destroyed .	0,74
In general, the event ended with a flash mob and a solemn evening of educational institutions and ethnocultural associations.	students handed passports of ethnic and cultural associations , which summarizes information about the culture , history and traditions of each national diaspora .	0,74
if we talk only about the processing industry, then the main factor depends on the level of labor productivity.	if we talk about the manufacturing industry , the main factor is the level of productivity .	0,74
the text of the law is published in the press.	the texts of laws are published in the press .	0,74
The meeting of visitors was accompanied by the central military orchestra of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the military equipment is also started being prepared .	0,74
By decree of the head of state, 2015 was declared the year of kha.	the xxii session of the apk is held in the jubilee year of the 20th anniversary of the assembly .	0,74
before that, the president of the holland faction came to us, after which he decided to visit Moscow with an unplanned trip, "the head of the foreign ministry recalled.
its implementation will give a new impetus to the diversification of regional entrepreneurship structures, improve non-financial support measures, "concluded E. Dossayev.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture, within the framework of budget programs, it is planned to complete the modernization and reconstruction of the Preobrazhensky hydroelectric complex and the Nura-Yesil canal in Akmola region with the introduction of a new automated system.
Along with this work, a program for the creation of emergency housing is being implemented in the city.
flowers are laid at the monument to the poet, public figure, Kumar Karachev.
Currently, the capacity of the granary in the country is 25.1 million tons.
The purpose of this competition is to strengthen social partnership between state bodies and civil society.
35 sold enterprises provide production of finished products. 35 out of the launched enterprises manufactured final production .
progress continues, it has not yet reduced its pace. we are continuing to move forward .
As the head of state noted, the "beam road" covers not only railways and roads, but also electric networks.
Makhmet Kairbaev is a participant in the hostilities in Belarus and the Baltic states. the life of hero of the soviet union makhmet kairbayev evokes reverence and respect .
The draft agenda consisted of more than 15 issues related to the deepening of integration and cooperation within the CIS.
It is worth noting that according to the Supreme Court, last year the district and equivalent courts in the republic received 1,221,011 applications and cases, including 761,533 civil, 415,600 administrative, the remaining 43,878 criminal cases.
He also noted that earlier the deputies were allowed to select the military of the third rank of health in the external army of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhs in this artistic way decorated ceremonial clothes, headdresses, household items of reputable people.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the training of Kazakhstani military specialists in military educational institutions of foreign states is an important component of the set of measures to study modern experience in replenishing the ranks of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan with highly qualified personnel and training personnel.
Gregory Rapota, Secretary of State of the Union State of Belarus and Russia, took part in the opening of the exhibition.
Thanks to this, we got the opportunity to speak in our homeland.
Altai and Altai, as well as Altai, raw darya and ishil - this is the day of honor of our country, written in golden letters.
After that, all participants in the meeting were invited to the historical and local history museum of the center for children's creativity.
In addition, according to the chairman of the kingdom's chamber of commerce, the Saudi Arab kingdom is successfully planning and developing the private sector, industry and chemical products.
According to the President of the Union of Poultry Farmers of Kazakhstan Ruslan Sharipov, domestic poultry farms in 3-4 years will fully provide the Kazakh market with poultry meat.
Along with other sectors of the economy, such as manufacturing, services of tourism and production sectors, the translogistic industry are important steps in the direction of modernizing the country's economy and getting rid of oil dependence, "said A.Isekeshev.
nevertheless, when he separated by the Cossacks and founded the khanate - that same time.
the introduction of an optimized method of concluding agreements using the best world experience for all types of minerals.
It is worth noting that the accession of the parties to the WTO will contribute to the further strengthening of trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and the eu.
Earlier, Kazavtodor and the akimat of West Kazakhstan region signed a memorandum on preventing job cuts, reducing wages of workers and ensuring the quality of road construction.
New samples of driving licence forms and vehicle registration certificates, Rules for organizing and conducting the hazard assessment of used roads, rules for accreditation of professional associations for the manufacture of the driver's vehicle, developed and approved rules for the formation and implementation of the activities of the qualification commission, rules for certification of those wishing to become teachers of a master of industrial training and a master of driving training in the process of training drivers for vehicles.
Currently, the artist is reconstructing gold decoration, and this type of art was forgotten in the 19th century.
along with the best production indicators, the economy headed by him is worthy to serve as an example of social support for the rural population, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.	according to the kazakh leader ,  such individuals as asanali ashimov who are outstanding representatives of the intelligentsia , are the role model for the younger generation .
According to the information, 48 of the 53 public services provided by the Ministry of Justice are provided electronically. i can bring to your notice the fact that 48 public services of the 53 provided by the ministry of justice converted into electronic format .
As K.Tokayev stressed, parliamentary ties between the two countries are of particular importance.
this, of course, will lead to the prosperity of small and medium-sized businesses and improve the quality of services provided.
In this regard, about 10 participants of the competition, gathered from different regions of the country, developed and presented to the exhibition their comprehensive projects from the above 3 buildings.
in the morning, when we were at polling stations, we noticed the active participation of young people.
It also provides for volunteer activities of young people who can actively participate in various events, show their civic position, "the minister said.
the relocation of the offices of manufacturing companies to the region will give an additional impetus to development, as well as provide great social support to residents of the region.
The agreement is aimed at implementing a joint project to improve energy efficiency and energy efficiency of industrial and civilian facilities in Kazakhstan.
all clothes are sewn separately for each soldier.
the company pays great attention to improving labor safety and production efficiency.
To strengthen the link between training and judicial practice, the institution of justice should be separated from the structure of the Academy of Public Administration.
presidential candidates are registered by the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
The head of the region got acquainted with the work of the workshop, met with fishermen.
sports discipline in each of the selected spartakiads is aimed at improving physical training, logic, developing thinking, speed of action of military personnel, and participation in the group increases the cohesion of personnel.
your policy aimed at systemic support of domestic science has yielded significant results. your policy aimed at supporting of the national science system , gave significant results .
we have prepared a plan aimed at improving the quality of life of people with disabilities, which consists of 3 stages. we say about that the plan was adopted to improve the quality of life of our invalids and this plan is three-stage .
Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the military parade on Red Square, and also took part in the ceremony of laying flowers at the grave of an unknown soldier.
the parties noted the great potential of cooperation in various areas and noted the importance of its further expansion.
remote educational technologies can play an important role in strengthening Russian-Kazakh relations.
It should be noted that today the customs code of the Eurasian Economic Union has been developed on the site of the Eurasian Economic Commission by experts of the three parties with the active participation of business representatives.
In the Karaganda region, the situation in the village named after Mustafin is aggravated, 2,350 residents were evacuated to the safe zone. the difficult situation in the village named after g.mustafin in karaganda region , where 2,350 residents were evacuated .
As the president noted, the industrialization program should necessarily create from 30 to 50 thousand jobs.
cadet of the 1st year of the Military Institute of Air Defense Forces because the navigator of the chiouaz dospanov, cadet of the 3rd year N. information struggle and n.o.s. alecula and bp. the work of Akkoshkarov, pilots of the Second World War.
It is worth noting that a number of state programs are being implemented in Kazakhstan.
they once again showed how artistic the Aral land is.
According to him, on the occasion of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate in Turkestan, it is necessary to organize an international scientific and theoretical conference, install a monument of the Kazakh Khanate and open a museum.
At the end of 2014, crime in the region decreased by 15.3%, from 15,731 to 13,327 crimes, including serious and especially serious ones.	at the end of 2014 the number of crime decreased in the region by 15.3 % from 15731 to 13327 , including heavy ( 734 vs. 1056 ) and especially grave crimes ( 80 versus 122 ) , and a small ( 1471 vs. 1685 ) or moderate ( 11042 vs. 12868 ) .	0,75
In the same year, war broke out, and a 17-year-old girl wrote a letter to the commissariat asking him to take him to the front.	in the same year the war began .	0,75
this constitutional competence is not tied to any treaty and restriction, the head of state exercises it independently.	so , the head of the constitutional council stressed the absence of any constitutional legal obstacles for holding early presidential elections .	0,75
The project on the processing of kalamkas-pencil and river-shallow copper is carried out in connection with the use of promising deposits of the Caspian Sea from the Kazakh side to transfer flows of boson oil to river mbas (excluding the volume sent to a bitumen plant in the city of Aktau).	the project on kalamkas-karazhanbas-aktau mp and uzen-zhetybai-aktau mp reconstruction is being implemented in connection with the expected reorientation of buzachi oil towards uzen hops ( excluding volumes intended for delivery to the bitumen plant in aktau ) and development of promising fields of the kazakh sector in the caspian sea .	0,75
each theater can work independently regardless of language and culture.	the theater can 't work in one style despite the language and culture .	0,75
The exhibition is very important for us, because one of its main goals is to reduce industrial injuries and reduce the number of accidents during production.	the exhibition is an important and necessary event for our country , because one of the aims is to reduce workplace injuries , reduce the number of accidents at work .	0,75
the document is aimed at improving the effectiveness of cooperation in the fight against crime, regulating relations between the authorized bodies of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria in the field of transfer of persons hiding from law enforcement agencies	the document is aimed at improving the efficiency of cooperation in the fight against crime and the normalization of relations between the competent authorities of kazakhstan and bulgaria on extradition of fugitives from prosecution , as well as evading the sentence .	0,75
60.7 million tenge for employment of the population for social jobs, 657.4 million tenge for paid public works. 657 , 4 million tenge will be allocated on paid public works , 60 , 7 million tenge - on social jobs .
In 2004, an anniversary medal dedicated to the 65th anniversary of the victory of Ukraine was sent to Kazakhstan.
this is an indicator of the high authority of the Kazakh leader, the confidence of the people in the head of state, "the senator said.
there should be no obstacles to the participation of entrepreneurs in state programs, "said N. Sadvakasov.
Moreover, I feel that Kazakhstan provides state support for the development of science, "said R.Bukanova.
In honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War and the 175th anniversary of the birth of the great Russian composer Pyotr Ilyaevich Tchaikovsky, a symphony orchestra of the Miriinsky theater under the direction of Valery Gergiev will perform at a gala concert.
The waste processing plant will receive plastics and metals from waste up to 200 thousand tons per year.
there is a stand with biographies of all managers since the founding of the department.
A separate topic of conversation was the effective use of funds allocated for the implementation of the project.
Currently, the construction of the first floor of the building has been completed, ceiling slabs have been blocked.
we must clearly understand that it is important for us to participate in elections.
The national pantheon in the mosque k.a.yassau. - the ancient value of the Kazakh people, included in the UNESCO list, and the burial place of our hero khans, our glorious heroes.
the third condition, according to the Vice Minister, is the development of scientific infrastructure and the introduction of research results in this area that meet modern requirements in the field of labor protection.
this is a very correct approach, usually the criteria for the perception of corruption in international studies are conducted throughout the state.	in general , the ncpi methodology developed by the institute was supported by international experts .	0,75
participants in the walk visited the Podolsk sewing and household machinery factory, examined two factories in the city of Ordzhonikidze.	so the tour participants visited podolsk factory of sewing machines , two factories of ordjonikidze .	0,75
On the basis of applications submitted to the district department of employment and social programs, it is planned to deliver rehabilitation tools for persons with disabilities home in accordance with individual rehabilitation programs.
At the same time, the general director of Atyrau Mns LLP noted that the implementation of this project will reduce damage to the external environment.
For us as an agricultural region of the country, the tasks set by the Head of State for the development of the agricultural raw materials processing sector are important.	it is very important that elbasy instructed to develop agricultural sector according to a new comprehensive development program .	0,75
In this regard, the fruitful work of the Ecomed Clinic in strengthening the institution of marriage and the family should be noted.
The Eao pharmaceutical market is one of the most promising and emerging markets, "said Vladimir Maltsev.
The event was organized within the framework of educational programs conducted by the Agency for Cooperation and Coordination under the Government of Turkey (tika) together with the National Ministry of Education of Turkey.
Mayor of the capital thanked all residents of the capital for glorifying the city, the Mayor's Office reports.
all this due to the special attention of the head of state to sports.
every year, the number of trained methodologists-instructors from among the military personnel increases.
the advantage of the project is that it will allow investors to effectively manage, control the quality of services provided to the population.
1.3 billion tenge was allocated for these works, including the repair of 34 apartment buildings in 2014.
No matter how many representatives of nationalities are present at today's holiday, this is a sign that all these nationalities live together in the Mangistau region, "said the secretary of the Mangistau regional Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Including solved problems with drinking water supplied to the pit, the village of Novomarinovka, Atbasarsky district, and the village of Aidarly, Zerendinsky district, the report said.
Work in this direction is carried out in the akimats of districts and cities.
The fact that people with disabilities join the ranks of entrepreneurs has become a traditional gesture for us.
more than twenty years of development and strengthening of the country - this is very little time. more than twenty years for the development and strengthening of the country is a very short time .
In turn, the Governor of the region noted that the region is always open to all investors and noted that this proposal will be considered comprehensively.
people provide funds for the construction of family houses, sports palaces, help talented children and young people fulfill their tasks.	the action involved large enterprises and organizations , ethnocultural associations , entrepreneurs , non-governmental organizations , the party  nur otan , " youth and others .
the lessons of the past day cannot be forgotten, so as not to be repeated in the future. we cannot forget the past in order to avoid mistakes in the future .
It is worth noting that this project is based on the investor's own funds.
One of the reasons for the transformation of the world system is the creation of new zones of economic and political influence in the context of the growth of the economy of Eurasia and its alliance, "said L. Muzaparov.
it is in Kazakhstan and the CIS countries.
today, Kazakhstani youth cannot imagine themselves in the 90s of the 20th century. now the youths even can 't imagine what kazakhstan was like in 1990s .
Following the meeting, the parties expressed confidence in the continuation of fruitful cooperation.
foreign guests noted the success of the Kazakhstan open data portal and noted the importance of involving the private sector in the project.
It is expected to provide the necessary operational and humanitarian assistance, including the establishment of food security funds.
According to him, the current law in the field of electricity cannot fully provide investment attractiveness in this area.
As a result, 28% of the population today are actively engaged in sports (in Kazakhstan - 26%).
Independence Day - the day when the country is given space, equality. the day of independence is a day that gave people freedom and equality .
The bill gives notaries the right to conduct conciliatory procedures.
Guests of the event visited a single contact center for public services, public service centers.
he noted that at present, in the conditions of instability in the world, the whole country needs the authority of the head of state.
Therefore, it is necessary to create a single electronic base of state orders, "said M. Mazhitov.
now they are listed quantitatively.
The goal of the republican action is to involve representatives of state structures and public, non-governmental organizations, the business environment and the media in improving the quality of life of children in the country, turning the interests and rights of children into priority areas of state policy at the central and local levels, advocating for the protection of the rights of each child, and helping to protect the rights of children.
thus, a compulsory social insurance participant registered as unemployed would not need to apply further to the State Pension Centre or the Public Service Centre to establish social benefits.
In addition, the department provides for changes and fluctuations in the regulatory legal framework.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan said that active work is underway with the embassy to bring the conference participants with state bodies and private companies of Croatia to a new level of interstate relations.
at the same time, all second-tier banks will have a great priority.
The Attorney General praised the role of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in cooperation on combating extremism and terrorism, cybercrime and expressed gratitude for the training organized by the International Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies in Budapest to improve the skills of prosecutors.
primary architectural and structural foundations for reconstruction.
domestic enterprises have long said that local retail chains cannot find a place. local entrepreneurs have raised the question that is very difficult to get on the shelves of trade networks .
At the same time, the population of the region should be informed about the measures taken by local authorities in this direction.
the agricultural industry is the most actively developing area of ​ ​ Canadian-Kazakh cooperation.
Thus, over time, the city polyclinics will provide medical care in accordance with European standards.
He also noted that the name of the exhibition "energy of the future" gives participants the opportunity to show new research in the field of alternative energy and get acquainted with them, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Kazakhstan's entry into the world market and attracting at least 10 transnational companies to the manufacturing industry for export goods.
however, at the suggestion of the president, the following changes were made to this plan of measures: conversion of currency debt of enterprises that do not have foreign exchange earnings, that is, conversion into national currency; changing tariffs for the services of the railway network, creating an order support center and the institute of "industrial certificate."
work is underway to remove the area from the buffer zone.
put on a Kazakh national dish, "said the deputy chairman of the Korean association.
I do not know this language at all, but I talked with Jews and learned their language.
The Secretary of State stressed the importance of such a constant and open conversation, which will allow to form constructive proposals and deepen mutual understanding to solve pressing problems.
in general, the project is presented by talas investment company LLP.
new information technologies and social networks will be given priority in the process.
in addition, one of the most important tasks of the industry is the construction of a large Almaty ring road.
The head of the region expressed satisfaction with the work of the administration of trading houses, their active participation in the action.
then, after land authorization, all subsequent technologies, in other words, such as production, trade in products, should be carried out in this way.
According to R.Zhoshybayev, the head of state of Nazarbayev specifically invited President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov to visit the exhibition and said that he would present this country with one of the best pavilions.
During the action, a number of socio-cultural objects were also built and commissioned, more than a thousand seedlings were planted, patriotic actions were organized in all regions.
for the first time, representatives of the top sergeant of the three types of armed forces arrived in Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has no other region with such high indicators and natural conditions.
in order to be an independent state, to respect itself, its economy must be strong, defensive, educated and healthy.	the kazakhstanis , according to the head of state , have nothing to fear because all calculations within the country are carried out in the national currency - tenge .	0,75
today, sustainable development is a value that brings together three pillars.	that heritage has a crucial role in sustainable development .	0,75
Adequate provision of socially important food products in markets and supermarkets and prevention of unreasonable price increases.	in this regard bilateral memoranda with the markets and supermarkets on the avoidance of unreasonable price increases and to ensure full availability of socially important food products in supermarkets and markets of the city are signed .	0,75
Participants of the event were provided with detailed information on the simplified visa system in Kazakhstan.	ambassador of kazakhstan to the usa kayrat umarov was the main speaker of the forum .	0,75
we expect that in the first half of the year we will receive the relevant proposals by March 1 to take into account all comments.	we expected opinion of the sides for further work and signing procedure .	0,75
As Madinov noted, first of all, subsidies are necessary in a competitive environment, due to the variety of weather conditions, that is, our producers should not be inferior to foreign partners.	first of all , subsidies are necessary because of competition , due to the difference in weather conditions , according to madinov .	0,75
The main requirement of the competition is the achievement of professional success by family members.	one of the indispensable conditions was to have achievements in the professional sphere .	0,75
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that from the point of view of the Kazakh side, he personally deals with this issue, which can be resolved through negotiations at the level of the heads of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France.	besides the kazakh leader said the opinion of the kazakh side could be solved via negotiations at the level of the presidents of ukraine , russia , germany and france .	0,75
We conduct extensive research, within the framework of which we identify regional features of women's entrepreneurship, observe growth rates, and also determine its weaknesses, "he said.
the regional centre is also working on the basis of a special plan.
this system, consisting of a centralized architecture, provides quick access to the exchange of information data, a high level of reliability, a higher level of automation in the generation of statistical and analytical reports.
respectfully recall employees who died in the line of duty. we always will remember our colleagues who gave their life for the country in the line duty .
project developers proposed methods for solving the issue of creating effective cities that are counter-magnets with modes of public and operational transport, main roads, landscaped streets.
As part of the trip, it is planned to visit a number of facilities in cities with growth and families.
the said bill changes the size of insurance tariffs and the procedure for their payment, synchronization and optimization of insurance payments, cancellation of the norm for the implementation of insurance payments, regardless of the presence or absence of fault of the employee, from 0 29% of working capacity in terms of providing the employer with a fee in case of loss up to%, introduction of a unique method of indexing payments through compensation for damage caused "In case of an accident in the performance of obligations (services) amendments and additions are made to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On compulsory insurance of an employee."
this is the first project of the state and private partnership in the road industry.
Currently, this action takes place in all regions of the country.
the white staff of the Semipalatinsk machine-building plant noted the need for further work on achieving the strategic goals of the republic.
it uses unique materials from the archive of Kazakh khans, about the division of the khanate into hundreds and about the wise generosity of the Kazakh people.
next year will be 80 years since the founding of the zoo.	our zoo has a huge potential - both scientific and learning  - r. batalov said .
for example, we each have our own mobile phones. everyone has a cell phone .
to receive an invitation from such a famous theater is a great honor. to get the invitation from such a famous theater is the great honor .
According to the Chairman of the South Kazakhstan Regional Tatar-Bashkir Ectomic Center, the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan is gratitude to all Kazakhstanis for the feat shown during the war.
gt aktb will ensure the design of spacecraft. assembling and testing system of spacecrafts will provide the design of spacecrafts .
the third direction is the implementation of employment and training issues through targeted programs of local executive bodies. the third direction , training and assistance in the employment , is offered to implement through targeted programs of the local executive bodies .
we will popularize the exploits of our heroes, show the chronology of the war, - added r. feed.
- Registration of individual entrepreneurs;
this is very small.
In general, the conference was very promising.
veterans of the armed forces and front-line soldiers were invited to the concert.
According to him, the broadband representation of the Kazakh Khanate is composed of works by famous masters and sculptors, artisans of the country.
the troupe knows what it is.
The main goal of the event is to receive the international title of EXPO.
Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the day when a country with a deep history again became a sovereign country in a new time.
discontinued training in three lines.
the exhibition presented for the first time is held in Russia, which was a unique event for residents of Moscow.
As A.Kusainov noted, two weeks ago a meeting of the tripartite commission was held at the government level.
Recall that the main goal of certification is to strengthen military discipline and the personal qualities of officers, to increase their responsibility for the duties assigned to them.
According to the Ministry of Defense, as part of the open day dedicated to the 13th anniversary of the creation of the regional command "West," participants of the military-patriotic club of the city of Aktau and teenagers of pre-conscription age visited the Marine Corps brigade 25744 a/b of the Mangistau region.
retail sales of non-food products increased by 6.4% compared to the corresponding period last year, food products - by 1%.
monitoring and examination of the election campaign of candidates showed a significant role of the Internet in the country's media.
on the same day, the majilismen will consider in the second reading amendments on strengthening the protection of property rights, guaranteeing the protection of contractual obligations and strengthening liability for their violation.
One of the main values ​ ​ of the tour program is the "Spartak" performance dedicated to the beautiful music of the Khachaturians.
if we take polling stations in a domestic and foreign state, then their number exceeds 9,700 and amounts to about 9.5 million voters who have the right to vote.
Over the five years since the successful launch of the state program, the entire legislative framework has been created, more than 50 laws have been prepared and introduced, and 3 more laws have been adopted.
because you had to pay the same attention to your loved ones, but this love itself prompted us to succeed, to learn more, this is our main engine in life, "concluded Aktaeva.
From 5 January 2015, within two months, anyone can use the network correction information services free of charge for up to 60 differential posts for signalling global navigation satellite systems in order to improve the accuracy of coordinate determination for cadastral and land survey works, topographic and geodetic works, construction works, current drainage of land, engineering and applied works and other works.
According to him, it is now necessary to implement compliance with general competitive procedures on the legal framework of the eurozone.
Also, the chamber deputies approved a bill on the ratification of an agreement between the governments of Kazakhstan and Vietnam, which saves from double taxation.
it reflects recommendations for the organization of tourism in reserves and national parks.
According to the press service of the bank, reducing the level of de-dollarization of the economy is a long process, the successful implementation of which is possible with stable and systematic work, using a set of interconnected measures and joint efforts not only of the government and the national bank, but also of all economic entities.
By the way, the tawakul pocket is the first Arab and the second Muslim woman to receive the Nobel Prize, and, having received the award, he was one of the youngest laurets.
According to a specialist coordinating a research group on genetics, vaccines, infections and pediatrics, vaccination is the only way to prevent infectious diseases, including measles.
the number of livestock and poultry has also increased.
in addition, the application of the provisions of the protocol is useful for the Kazakh side, since at present bilateral and transit transport is carried out on the basis of permit forms, with which the parties exchange annually in a limited number.
Chairman of the Council of Veterans of the Zhambyl region Zhanabayev congratulated all those present on the May holidays, noting that the unity of peoples unites people of different ages and representatives of all nationalities, and is also proud of the heart of people for their country.
In particular, there is an idea to hold a kumys festival.
In the flood hazard zone, water drain continues, soil laying around residential buildings and filling with inert materials, "said the head of the department.
the agreement provides for taxation by the source State with a low rate on dividends, interest and royalties.
- assistance in compiling a register of patients for socially significant diseases and study of experience;
Also, Mr. Eddleton will meet with representatives of private sectors of the region, heads of local municipalities and other civil society institutions to discuss a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation.
We plan to launch enterprises in October and November.
schools in Taldykorgan, Tekel cities, coke and Eskel regions were chosen as basic educational centers.
In turn, Viktor Liskovich noted that in recent years significant successes have been achieved in the health care of Kazakhstan.
The session was attended by Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, Head of the Secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Presidential Administration, representatives of regional, district and rural ethnocultural associations, religious denominations, akims of regions, heads of state bodies, youth.
- Today a number of states come to us with a proposal to establish trade and economic relations, free trade.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the built complex has installations from Turkey, Spain, Israel.
According to him, consumers of products produced by this enterprise will be able not only to become Kazakhmys enterprises, but also to work freely in other sectors of the economy.
During the meeting with students, the goals of organizing and tasks of employees of educational institutions were announced.
As the guest of honor noted, it is very important to establish and develop trusting relations between people, which is a bright guarantee of the success of the state as a whole.
In addition, on this day a number of new bills will be adopted.
participants in the competition dismantled the machines, outlined a target from an air rifle, ran along the obstacles.
the foreign policy pursued with neighbouring countries, especially with the great neighbouring Russian Federation, given the current difficult situation, is highly appreciated.
this laboratory is an equipped base for refining updated products in the defense production complex and updating weapons of the type of military equipment.
Enterprises performing construction or reconstruction works using the products of Kazakhstan Pipe Plant LLP:
According to him, the result of the forum is the introduction of proposals to the government to improve antitrust legislation.
The agreement on the EAEU creates equal conditions for citizens of member states in matters of reducing illegal migration flows in relation to labor contracts, deepening socio-economic integration processes within the EAEU, the vice minister said.
"This book tells not only the whole life of the Kazakh poet, philosopher and teacher, but also the history of the nation."
In the pavilion of Kazakhstan, which is one of the largest sites of the exhibition, a large ball is being built, which at the end of the exhibition will become the museum of the future. at the moment , the main building of the capital expo 2017 was developed in an area of 174 hectares , where 30 % of the work has been carried out .
According to him, a number of measures are being taken proposed by the commission on modernization of the economy of Kazakhstan, which was created on behalf of the head of state.
due to the above factors, the international jury gave him a fair rating as one of the three best in the world ranking.
the staff of the Karaganda State Technical University noted that our compatriots again entrusted the country's leadership to Nursultan Nazarbayev in the elections.
this will have a positive effect on personnel decisions, "said D. Zhanenov.
we want to show our colleagues living in other regions of the country how beautiful our city is. we want to show our colleagues from the regions , what a beautiful city we have .
however, the highest growth rates of real monetary incomes of the population have been established in the Mangistau region and the city of Astana.
Carriers also update passenger transport serving bus routes.
The competition is organized as part of a special platform "el.kz" on the basis of the site sailau2015.el.kz.
In total, 44 hogweed and 5 eagles took part in the republican competitions, which have been held in the region since 1987, the regional akimat reported.
the document proposes to establish principles that are an instrument of privatization based on the transfer of public functions and companies to the private sector, as well as determining the degree of State participation in entrepreneurial activities.
Agricultural support programmes have been successfully implemented. the programs in the agricultural sector are implemented successfully .
The goal of creating a trading house is to save entrepreneurs as much time as possible. one of the main aims of the trading house is to minimize the time-consuming business .
It is not surprising that the international exhibition Expo in Astana attracts a large number of people from the very beginning, "the report said.
b. jumakhanov paid special attention to the fundamental principles of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The event dedicated to 109 heroes of the Soviet Union in the ethnoaul of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk was attended by veterans of the Second World War, a brass band and a well-known musical group of the military unit 5518, military personnel of the military unit 27943 and conscripts.
civilian-type clothing has influenced the development of military clothing.
The path to Kyzylord is 22 hours 25 minutes, the return journey is 23 hours 22 minutes, "the report said.
In addition, the innovations will allow the user to directly switch from the parliamentary site to the official accounts of meetings on social networks.
specialists who know modern technologies, know the language of high-tech devices, learn foreign languages ​ ​ are in demand.
In terms of tenge, prices have increased by 1.8% since the beginning of the year.
Kyrgyzstan also works under a long-term contract.
they met us, placed us, created in a big city all the conditions for our hostility, "said the head of the ensemble gulmira kilasheva.
presents a video message on the official opening of the Year of Kha.
I visited a number of polling stations, perhaps later I will elaborate on the polling stations I visited.
Today, property tax is 1.5% of the rate, "said K. Bishimbayev.
This ground bridge was opened on Abay Avenue, another bridge across kazybek bi street is being built near the closed Zhain market, "the Governor of Kyzylorda region said.
Servicemen of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan will be marked at the parade.
the document is aimed at improving state regulation and management in the field of health, improving health and life expectancy of the population, increasing the potential of personnel resources in the health sector, and improving drug policy.
Preschool enrolment for children between the ages of 1 and 6 was 59 per cent.
Within the framework of the action, the opening ceremony of the labor campaign of youth labor groups "green country" is provided.
The Great Patriotic War ended with the victory of the Soviet people of the USSR, which brought losses and great suffering.
today, a social worker comes to the hope of stepanne several times a week.
The parachute jumping program for paratroopers depends on the units and specialties of the brigade.
According to the Kazakh side, which proposed to make these changes, this measure will reduce the cost of treating cardiological diseases, "the press release said.
The forum will be attended by the country's leadership and delegates of the regions.
It should be noted that Kazagrofinance is engaged in supporting the agricultural sector of the republic, thereby making efforts to financially provide agricultural producers.
In total, more than 770 new enterprises were introduced.
to date, their pension is provided from three sources, as a result of which their pensions have become different.
planting seedlings is most of the citywide subbotnik, which will be held in the capital this weekend.
In addition, for the development of construction sites, such communication systems as heat, gas, water supply will be improved, "said N.Logutov.
The head of the region noted that this year is the year of unity of the country, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, proclaimed by the head of state, the model of social harmony.
the percentage of registered unemployed was 0.7 per cent of the economically active population.
the implementation of projects for the construction and reconstruction of heating networks in the cities of Zyryany and Serebryansk, as well as two bridges in the city of Ridder, continues.
According to the results of the competition 23, the best work of the winners was directed to the III International Creative Competition "Eternal Memory," which will be held on May 2015, 9 in the capital of the Russian Federation in Moscow.
According to him, the President of Kazakhstan noted the good development of states that pay attention to the institute of health, parents and family.
To date, 23,630 participants in the application acceptance system have www.fnsk.kz registered on the website.
In this regard, the government and personally the Elbas show great concern for the Kazakh language.
the funds raised in the national fund, we can direct to a complete change in the industrial framework.
After the congratulatory ceremony, the akim of the region handed over to mothers with many children the badges of "golden" collegium, "silver" collegium, presented diplomas and letters of thanks to a number of citizens.
today there is a lot of the future, "many graduates are engaged in entrepreneurship.
According to him, the basis of the free market is people at the international and legal level themselves create enterprises.
However, the allowances added to this should be found by each body, "the head of state said.
According to the center-west project, this year feasibility studies have been prepared with the definition of specific route locations.
The construction of the station is carried out by the customer of Samruk Energo LLP.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the work of ethnocultural associations of the city, landscape performances of rides and photographs of historical and cultural monuments were presented in the photo contest.
the rest will be opened this year.
no law or agreement, twos introduced in them and changes should be adopted in Kazakhstan without their participation, "the president emphasized.
Recall that the Week of Munditioning is held at the initiative of the European Regional Bureau do over the past ten years (since 2005) in late April.
most of the project is financed by club loans from Japanese banks.
The Kazakh mortgage company plans to build 5 residential buildings for 1,160 apartments in Uralsk and 76 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 5.727 thousand square meters. meters in rural settlements.
According to the president, the third reform is the formation of civil budgeting.
He noted that the exhibition presents the works of the first Kazakh female artists Gulfairuz Ismail and Aisha Galimbaeva.
it is not planned to sell these assets, which belong to the main business, for the processing of oil and the sale of petroleum products.
he noted that Kazakhstan today is on the verge of concluding an agreement with China on the construction of a number of enterprises.
construction is well developed along with modern technologies.	the construction process is developing at a good bat .	0,75
The head of state reported on the development of healthcare in the region.	during the visit the president has been informed about the development of the health sector in the region .	0,75
According to the press service of the educational institution, the Nobel Prize winners got acquainted with the history of the university and wrote "their wishes" in the book of honorary guests of the university.
At the same time, as A. Yerzhanov noted, energy efficiency plans are being implemented in general, in 2013 the indicator decreased by 18.6% compared to the level of 2008.
The "c-19" class sniper commissioned allows you to carry out quickly executed targets.
One of the new stations will be located in the village of Abay in the area of ​ ​ the island. one of the stations will be located in abai village of aral district .
the court should be the body that can resolve all its issues.
According to the document, the parties intend to establish direct business contacts between entrepreneurs of the two countries and actively work in the search for strategic investors.
So, since the beginning of the year, 120 materials have been released in the garden.
Kazakhstan pavilion attracts all guests, selects representatives of other countries.
If we talk about the year of the assembly, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate will be an important event of this year. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate occupies the central position in the context of the year of the assembly .
He was elected as a deputy of the 3rd and 3rd convocations of the district councils of the region.
the document consists of 9 sections and 4 annexes.
ikram adyrbek Kazakh statesman, diplomat, Doctor of Economics.
the production included various musical genres, some of which were accompanied by choreographic numbers.
Another point of the work program was a visit to the state-owned transport and technical college, where, thanks to memoranda between enterprises, the regional chamber of entrepreneurs and the education department of the region, the format of dual training was introduced.
the current generation of women is not only a parent of the family, but also an active participant in public life. today 's generation of women is not simply homemakers , but also active participants in public life .
And in 2014, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of kha, the first department in the region, the third assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, was opened at Kostanay University of Engineering and Economics.
despite being a scout, I was sent to the central post of the shooting control service. instead , i was sent to the signalman central post-fire management .
The Secretary of State noted the importance of the Year of Kha and noted that the XXII session of this organization "will remain in history."
the grant will allow university teachers to undergo foreign internships at leading universities in the world, to implement their scientific and educational projects.
now we are working on this issue, perhaps it will be necessary to coordinate with project institutes and modernize the data.
We are endlessly grateful to the veterans of the war and the labor front, the defenders of Leningrad, who, without sparing their health and lives, demonstrated to the whole world the irreversible spirit of our Motherland. we express our gratitude and respect for the veterans of battles and labor front , defenders of leningrad , and all those who showed the spirit of our motherland .
dances, moods, theatrical productions are presented to the attention of the townspeople.
Turkey is one of the closest and most reliable partners of Kazakhstan.
He also noted that all opportunities for business development have been created, much is being done even in rural areas.
the political doctrine of the family party refers to an important institution for preserving the values ​ ​ of our society.	the party 's doctrine says that family is the most important institution of preserving the values of our society .	0,76
expansion of the state language and education of patriotism, tolerance and knowledge of the culture of the Kazakh people, application of the traditions and values ​ ​ of the Kazakh people.	in addition , the aim is to expand the scope of the official language , education of patriotism and tolerance , the dissemination of knowledge about the culture of the kazakh people , the formation of ethnic groups , respect for the culture , traditions and identity of the kazakh people .	0,76
Ministry representatives have initiated the second phase of the programme.	the ministry has initiated the development of the second phase of the program .	0,76
Based on the cooperation agreement, the World Bank presented a number of solutions that increase the competitiveness of the Kazakh economy.
the participants considered the peculiarities of the national policy of the CIS countries, analyzed the experience of the two countries in maintaining inter-ethnic and interreligious solidarity, and tried to determine the level of influence of current threats on existing political and social processes.
As Bostan Shahmanov noted, their fates are divided.
if before they were universal and did everything.
The first object of the working group was the reinforcement plant Eurasian Caspian Steel.
currently, narrow gauge and wide gauge railway tracks are installed.
According to forecasts, the new norm will positively affect the achievement of what the people demand. it is predicted that the new rule will significantly affect the achievement of the aims required by the population .
The Governor of the region invited the heads of oil companies to discuss the project and consider the possibility of its joint implementation.
The energy market situation was primarily stabilized by the provision of petrol, oil and lubricants. the situation related to the energy market , primarily with the provision of fuel and lubricants now has been stabilized .
deputy of the Bundestag of Germany, member of the Hdo/Hao party, drew attention to the activity of the population and the transparency of the elections.
ksi and xbo plan working meetings for information exchange, joint scientific conferences, seminars, round tables, platforms for exchange of views, mutual consultations, preparation of joint publications, provision of bilateral support in the development and implementation of international scientific programs and projects, the statement said.
if these programs-reforms are implemented, and they will be implemented without fail, Kazakhstan will undoubtedly take another big step towards its further development, "- said K. Tokayev.
combat coordination is the organization of interaction between units.
One of such works was the signing of memorandums of cooperation between Astana Expo 2017 and its contractors, as well as between the oil refining company - Tengizshevroil LLP and the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region.
the transit route is a form of export of transport and communication compensation, which occupies a special place for the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, the purpose of the meeting is to discuss a set of systemic measures for the development of the system of scientific and technical creativity of children and youth for 2015-2018, developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
more than 5,000 military personnel, about 220 units of modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aviation equipment will take part in the large-scale parade.
the purpose of the seminar is to develop an action plan to change the Samruk-kazyna fund.
In the North Kazakhstan region, work continues on the survey of the breeding river bed.
f.trubitsyn moves from a house that is not fully provided with needs to a new apartment.
Earlier, the Kazakhstani military contingent, which is part of the convoy, was introduced to the Tajik Harbmaidon training ground by military transport aircraft of the Air Defense Forces.
All participants in the session will be able to familiarize themselves with the topics of good deeds. Kalashnikov.
he also emphasized the role of the head of state and the assembly of people of Kazakhstan.
Last year, with the help of 3 mobile medical complexes, 286,035 residents of 135 settlements of the region were assisted.
Cooperation also provides for the training and training of health professionals.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, one of the steps to transition to a "green economy" and unconventional energy sources was the qualifying stage for the exhibition of innovative projects "expo-2017 - through the eyes of young people."
rescuers congratulated the veteran grandmother on the upcoming holiday, presented gifts and wishes.
for example, for ease of operation, we must enter a valid keyboard.
addressing the heads of sports federations, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that modern management, professional personnel, an effective and transparent financing mechanism are necessary to solve the tasks.
at this time, the power and khanate of the people, wanting to be honest and white, will put the khan in a white yurt.
The speaker of the Senate informed the guest about the national plan aimed at Kazakhstan becoming one of the thirty competitive countries of the world and implementing five institutional reforms that will lead the country to a new stage of development.
laboratories and a production site for the manufacture of individual spacecraft compositions will be in production, "the report said.
so, in every country there is a question of preserving such peace and harmony.
The event dedicated to the spiritual and cultural development of the country, the unity and harmony of the people, plays a special role in the education of the younger generation. "
therefore, we are conducting a functional review of all civil service positions, "he said.
The Kazakh company continues to implement a large-scale program for the technical re-equipment of mining operations and the modernization of existing funds, as well as the implementation of large corporate projects, the press service of the corporation reports.
to do this, you must report to the precinct election commission with identity documents, as well as confirming registration at the place of residence (address certificate or register of citizens) and carefully familiarize yourself with the list of voters.
today we celebrate the March holiday in a very joyful atmosphere. this beautiful spring celebration is a symbol of the rebirth of nature .
Because the strategic development of Kazakhstan is important for becoming a transport and logistics center and building transit potential.
the largest share in the total retail trade in January 2015 in the republic was the city of Almaty (31.7%), the city of Astana (10.3%) and the Karaganda region (9.8%).
Nurmukhambet abdibekov noted that Kazakhstan is a place reflected in various cultures, popular and trust friendship.
According to the author of the project, Neil Birsch, the concept is based on key solutions, such as setting priorities in the public transport system.
mobile device owners can familiarize themselves with the expanded version of exposure using the qr code depicted in the pictures of the People's Detachment train.
He also noted the active work of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan in the field of countering crime, providing international legal assistance in criminal cases and extraditing criminals on the basis of the principles of mutual cooperation with the American competent authorities.
this is a ticket for voluntary employment, our students after the second year will receive permission to complete an internship, which in the future will not create obstacles to internship and employment, "said Buribekov.
All winners will be presented with diplomas and memorable gifts, as well as books of the publishing house of the library of the head of state.
This year, in the area of ​ ​ Aksu, the construction of another poultry farm for the production of 10 thousand tons of meat will begin.
40 volumes of these works were published under the state program of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 10 volumes - under the auspices of the public fund "Erg Assistance" and the partnership of the public youth fund "Kazfond."
during the Great Patriotic War, 170 thousand people went from eastern Kazakhstan to the front field, of which 96 thousand did not return.
244 veterans from 14 regions of the country were invited to military parades and other events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
In practice, programme participants examined the selection of the most effective State response in addressing issues identified by the expertise, understanding the possible linkages between different activities and outcomes, based on specific circumstances, and monitoring regional development programmes and preparing targeted interventions.
As noted, they discussed the program "improving the well-being and quality of life of residents of Kyzylorda region, including representatives of vulnerable segments of the population by applying innovative approaches to the performance of economic, social and environmental functions."
in the first week, the kazbrig receives a combat order from the senior leadership for stage II and conducts the process of making a military decision.
each participant and disabled person of the Great Patriotic War independently introduced a social card of need for additional social assistance.
In addition, 51 veterans who do not need housing repairs are provided with one-time material assistance in the amount of 100 thousand tenge at the expense of sponsorship funds.
the products produced by them as of January 1, 2015 amounted to 223 billion tenge, including benefits and priorities that we apply to participants.
to work out flight control techniques in the dark and prepare pilots for landing the aircraft at night in any weather conditions, "said Air Force Commander Colonel Dauren Kosanov.
In particular, the Governor's Office of the capital signed two memoranda with the Ministry of Health and Social Protection.
The initiative of Kha to hold elections is the realization of the people's choice, its stability and confidence in tomorrow, a rigorous socio-economic direction and the desire for sustainable development, social harmony and national unity. the initiative of the apk to hold the elections is the embodiment of the will of the people and their desire for stability and confidence in the future , for the immutability calibrated social and economic policy , sustainable development , social cohesion and national unity .
at a polling station formed specifically for students, they actively vote.
The special economic zone "Khorgos - East Gate" will create a powerful center of industrial and logistic distribution in Kazakhstan for organizing transportation work at the global level.
the goal of the project is to increase the financial literacy of the population of Kazakhstan.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-March 2015 amounted to 107%.
today we came with our family to the presidential elections in Kazakhstan. today , i came to the election with the family .
In May this year, within the framework of the VIII Astana Economic Forum, the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption will organize a global conference on the management of the public service staff.
Also within the framework of the competition, an exhibition of the republican competition-festival of amateur art was organized, dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
in addition, the parties drew attention to high-tech projects in the agricultural sector.
it was here that more than 100 balloons were handed out in three colors - yellow, blue and green, depicted on the Expo 2017 logo.
to achieve our goals, it is necessary to form a developed national logistics infrastructure and integrate it into the international transport system, "he said.
our graduates prefer to continue their education at Nazarbayev University, "but fifty percent go abroad at the invitation of world-class universities.
Recall, on February 14, 2015, following the meeting of the assembly, representatives of the assembly turned to the people of Kazakhstan with an initiative to hold early presidential elections.
Since 2003 - Secretary of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to our calculations, the National Guard as a paramilitary structure of the ministry and should fulfill military duties and be provided with all the necessary things for all circumstances, "R.Zhakupov assured.
theatrical performances from the military periods are shown in front of the house of culture.
students, together with a college diploma, receive a preliminary education as a business initiator.
military uniforms are sutured depending on technical (typical) characteristics.
this will increase the reliability of the protection of the air border of our country - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of state, the flood covered 5 regions of Kazakhstan.
the assembly will also hold an annual flag raising ceremony.
veterans of the Second World War, representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, youth and akim of the region took an active part in the improvement of the park.
according to our calculations, the implementation of 5 institutional reforms put forward by your Nursultan Abishevich will allow you to demonstrate the potential of youth as much as possible, "the message emphasizes.
In turn, Lebedev thanked the observers for the favorable conditions and expressed the great interest of international observers in the presidential elections.
the train has a fluorographic apparatus, an X-ray apparatus, a narrow apparatus, equipment for determining heart vessels and blood pressure for one day and a urology office.
According to this indicator, the Karaganda citizen ranks first among other regions of the country.
It was also noted that this event is aimed at patriotic education of young people.
guests of the concert expressed the opinion that cultural cooperation between Austria and Kazakhstan will serve as a bridge between the two countries.
In the period from April 6 to 9, viewers will be able to watch all performances at the festival daily.
here, the process of passing a practical exam for obtaining a driver's license is fully automated.
According to the NPP, it provides for the joint implementation by the parties of the state program to create legal, economic and social conditions for the implementation of entrepreneurial proposals, the holding of joint measures to identify economic and financial offenses, the identification of barriers and problems that negatively affect the development of entrepreneurship, and the development of a set of measures to solve it.
in this case, Germany can become a strong pillar in the process of inducing Kazakhstan.
According to him, there were a lot of people at polling stations, which is also important.
At the end of 2014, 78,658 certificates of specialists were issued on the electronic licensing portal.
The event will be attended by more than 350 leading specialists in the field of transplantology from 30 countries.
Establishment of private investment litigation.
presidential elections in any country demonstrate the unity of the country.
Since January 1, 2015, 1,655,980 SMEs have been registered in Kazakhstan, an increase of 7.3% compared to 2013 or 103,414 units, "Kuzekov said.
the museum exposition is mainly dedicated to the 150th independent rifle brigade formed in our city.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs considers it extremely important to develop and implement a comprehensive import substitution plan within the framework of existing state programs for the development of industry, primarily for goods included in the food basket list, to reduce the import dependence of the domestic economy.
By the way, the Prime Minister came to the polls with his wife and posted the ballot papers in the ballot box.
in modern society, only the constitution is the highest value of freedom and human and civil rights. this constitution defines the rights and freedoms of man and citizen ; it is the guarantor of their highest value in the modern society .
The participants of the conference were scientists of the border regions of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
The head of state, having approved the anti-corruption strategy and party program to combat corruption, drew public attention to the fact that corruption is a destructive threat to national security. having adopted the anti-corruption strategy and the party program of combating corruption , the president confirmed that the corruption is a serious threat to the national security .
not only athletes, but also residents can train in the sports complex.
The head of the region wished veterans good health, longevity, noted that their masculinity is a vivid example of courage and honor.
V. Kobalia Vice-Minister of Science, Research and Economics of Austria Bernadette Berlinger and Vice-President of the Austrian Chamber of Economics met with Richard Schenz and informed about the preparations for the exhibition.
Participants in the XXII session will be able to learn in detail about the good work done in all regions of the country.
sewage drain continues in the village of Talapker, 6 thousand 980 cubic meters of water are flooded. in talapker village combined forces are working on pumping of melt water , 3,980 cubic meters rolled back .
Akimats began to receive targeted transfers and to pay one-time material assistance to the participants of the Second World War and veterans.
akims of all regions should find places, build football grounds, there is a demand for them, residents want to play. governors of all settlements need to consider the possibility to construct football fields .
before that, the villagers could not pass milking milk. earlier , the villagers could not sell the collected milk .
The German minister also said that Kazakhstan itself will lead the planned economic regional delegation.
At the same time, as the Chairman of the Supreme Court noted, investment activities in promoting the global economy are increasing, as well as competition and need legal regulation of business and support from the state.
We are grateful that in the modern world our citizens have developed grace, we see a happy childhood, "said the pelageya zinovievna Samartseva.
According to dsadm, during the negotiations, the issues of making comments and proposals to the draft agreement of the parties, as well as conducting a medical and social examination (examination and re-examination) on a free basis for citizens of the EAEU member states and developing a single information resource in the information segment of the participating countries of the joint information system of the Eurasian Economic Union were discussed.
Speaking at the enlarged meeting of the Council of Ministers, Ye.Dyrissov noted that during the exchange of views in a narrow format, the parties paid special attention to the situation in Ukraine and Afghanistan.	during the enlarged meeting of the council of ministers of the csto , ye.idrissov noted the growing instability in the world , having stressed that during the discussions the interlocutors paid special attention to the situation in the ukraine and afghanistan .	0,76
Also, for the first time in the certification of military personnel, special psychological testing and testing for the assimilation of legislation in this area was introduced to determine the contribution of a certified officer to the fight against corruption.	also for the first time in the military certification included special psychological testing and verification of knowledge of anti-corruption legislation , introduced by the common cause of the fight against corruption a personal contribution of each attestation officer .	0,76
we must pay attention to the patriotic education of the younger generation.
While in 2011-2012 this figure did not exceed 1,600 applications per year, now since 2013 its level is at least 2,000 applications per year.
We had different families.
I am sure that at present there are good conditions for promoting cooperation to a new level, "K. Makimov said.
According to the Committee on Statistics of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the structure of Kazakhstan's exports 44.1% of gross exports to the customs union are on mineral products, 27.6% - on metals and products, 12.2% - on products of chemical industry, 5.3% - on products of animal husbandry, crop production and finished consumption.
The goal of the project is to improve primary health care for the Euro Protocol and increase efficiency through reforming patronage activities.
In 100 steps, the head of state outlined the tasks.
Every year we meet him with hope, goodwill, with great success.
this institution is fully equipped, sufficient in the necessary medical equipment. this facility has everything you need for a comfortable stay ; its inhabitants are provided with internet .
n. Danenov called on the conference participants to support intercultural and interreligious dialogue, an atmosphere of respect and tolerance and stability in Kazakh society at the national level and in this direction. a. Nazarbayev announced the measures taken.
modernization of common standards was carried out on the basis of the technical regulations of the customs union in the railway industry adopted for 2011-2014, that is, modern interstate and national standards.
He stressed that the state is taking comprehensive measures to further diversify agriculture and subsidize their industries.
as a rule, most of the processed goods in this zone are products of the metallurgical, food and chemical industries.
More than 3 thousand people took part in the action dedicated to the completion of the presidential elections, "one of the organizers of the event, Raikhan Abdeshova, said.
In general, the renewal of the city bus fleet began several years ago.
The Governor of Ankara noted the high level of cooperation and cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey, noting the importance of their improvement within the framework of strategic agreements between the two countries, the report said.
Also, according to him, the head of state noted the need for more active participation of Kazakhstani companies in other large projects, such as EXPO-2017.
It is expected that legislation will be passed this year, according to which each house should have an energy efficiency mark. it is expected that this year the legislation will be adopted , under which every home should has energy efficiency labeling .
it helps people in religion, depletion of the source of spirituality, strengthens moral principles and traditional family values.
the main role is the goal - to study abroad for many years and return to the country of inheritance of his father's heritage. the main character - maksat had lived for a long time abroad and achieving success , having returned home to receive inheritance of his grandfather .
a food center, a medical center and psychologists work smoothly.
Thus, television and radio programs in the state language in time according to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on languages ​ ​ must be at least the total volume of television and radio programs in other languages.
summing up the discussion, B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions regarding the development and approval of sports development programs, the adoption of concrete measures for the development of regional federations, sports sections and clubs, children's and youth sports.
Last year alone, 411 applicants were allocated land from the regional center, "said O. Sushko.
According to the information center of the East Kazakhstan region, at a solemn event dedicated to the celebration of one of the most ancient holidays in the life of mankind, all types of rituals were demonstrated.
It is worth noting that the development of a career card and its form will be prepared after amendments to the law on public service.
The head of state instructed first of all to solve the problem of emergency schools. according to the instructions of the president the problem of emergency schools need to be solved .
our people have made their choice.
they proved that even this year a wheelchair and a blind eye cannot plunge into talent. once again they have tried to prove that a wheelchair or lack of vision is not a reason to forget about their talents and abilities .
Officers of the metropolitan police annually transfer one-day salaries to the fund of the Veterans Council and provide material assistance.
In addition, today the Nur Otan party officially expressed support for this initiative.
the future of any state depends on their youth, because young people are always proactive and active. the future of country largely depends on its young people , because youths are always energetic and enterprising .
In 2015, in addition to systemic measures, the Ministry pays attention to 2 main areas.
all are equipped with the latest technologies and meet international requirements.	all enterprises equipped with the units meeting the international standards .	0,76
agriculture in our country is a competitive priority in history.	in our country , historically agriculture has been our competitive advantage .	0,76
mixed deliveries of railair significantly reduce the time of transportation of goods.
we hope that the Iranian country will be as open as possible for the sale of goods, and all sanctions will be lifted.
During the conversation, the parties noted the high level of cooperation between UNESCO and Kazakhstan, as well as Kazakhstan's constant attitude to the significant goals and principles of UNESCO.
today we need to appreciate our friendship, maintain public harmony, and help those in need in a timely manner.
as part of the third objective, the investment attraction system will be updated.
in addition, the draft agenda contains bills relating to the ratification of extradition treaties with Bulgaria and Romania, as well as an extradition treaty with Romania.
However, two soldiers were fired for violation of military discipline and improper performance of their duties, "the report said.
thanks to the competent use of our natural resources, developed industry, strong education and science, we have all this.
For all 3 years of the war, he fights in an underground bunker.
According to the head of state, new tests will be introduced to assess the personal qualities of each candidate for the civil service.
As a result of persistent wrestling eastern Kazakhstanis came forward, the second were athletes of the capital.
efficient use of services, improved quality of public services, optimization of levels of public administration to reduce useless and support services.
street crime had decreased, and alcohol and drug offences had decreased.
At the same time, the Director General of UNESCO emphasized the role of the idea initiated by Kazakhstan of an international decade for the rapprochement of cultures, emphasizing the importance of the global agenda of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, in which he plans to take part.
Zh. Syzdykov nominated from the People's Communist Party of Kazakhstan.
and valuable exhibits are grouped into the third part of the exhibition.
It is worth noting that Tigabayev was born from Astana in 1959, in 1962 - Aldazhanov Safiolla Kalabayuly, in 1969 the president of the public association "World of the Spiritual Society" of the Koishiev estuary, 1977 Construction engineer of jh-stroy LLP Abdykarimov paid for happiness, 1984 Driver of jh-kurylys LLP myrzashov suhrab aminzhanovich, 1958 public figure ukteshbayev yesenbek zhakarula, 1946 pensioner zhunisbekov jacobzhan, 1947 Chairman of the Akmola regional branch of the trade union of employees of state, banking institutions and public services, Syzdykov railway, 1969 "Capital Oil Group 2007" with the head of the axe a creepy wing, in 1971 a serviceman sergeazin celebrated a holiday.
During the event, a photo exhibition dedicated to Victory Day was held, where dance and music groups performed.
Currently, about 100 Thai welders and pipe and cable laying specialists work on Kashagan.
And if you consider the city completely, then the appendix will contain information about buildings in parts of the city where the forum participant was, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
and of the total number of convicts, only 38.6% were deprived of their liberty.
In addition, the head of state instructed the government not to reduce spending on social payments when forming the republican budget.
- development of a document regulating the conclusion with domestic enterprises of long-term agreements for the supply of goods, works and services, defining its foundations and criteria;
the map of industrialization of import substitution will teach our business competitiveness, which means that the country will be competitive. import substitution industrialization map will allow the business to be more competitive .
the country has achieved great success.
The year of creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, that is, May 1 or another day, it would be fair to celebrate annually the Day of respect for all ethnic groups to each other and mercy and respect for the Kazakh people, who took all these ethnic groups into their arms, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Every year, the section of Kazakhstan is of great interest and attracts significant participants both from the member states of the EAEU and from institutional investors, foreign banks and international financial organizations.
in terms of the growth rate of residential buildings put into operation, starting from the Akmola region, then - the capital and Almaty cities.
President of the Kazakh-American Free University E. Mambetkaziev expressed sincere congratulations on behalf of the team, noting that the trust of Kazakhstanis in Nursultan Nazarbayev is justified.
According to him, "The m g_l_k ate the uniting values of the national spiritual idea" lead to activization of Kazakhstan citizens.
B.Saparbayev noted a number of issues that need to be solved for the effective implementation of youth policy in terms of the nation and the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
The head of the Kazakh delegation expressed confidence that the international exercises of rescue services of the Shu member states, which are planned to be held in Kazakhstan in June, will make a significant contribution to strengthening the system of taking measures in emergency situations of civil security.
According to him, due to historical circumstances, our society has acquired many languages ​ ​ and nationalities and has become an even stronger and more united country.
a large number of cycling fans who took part in a bike ride dedicated to Victory Day. today the bike ride to the victory day was attended by a large number of cycling enthusiasts .
at the meeting, historians discussed the concept of celebrating the 55th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The agricultural credit corporation accepts applications for the financing of fuel and lubricants, spare parts and repairs of agricultural machinery, mineral fertilizers, means of storing foam and other resources for sowing and harvesting.
It is worth noting that before Kazakhstan, gats (global adult tobacco survey - aa) were held in 19 countries, the highest in tobacco consumption.
And the base of the forum is the dialogue of civilizations, the rest depends on the theme of today.
The main condition for increasing the importance of supervisory boards is the inclusion of parents, employers, representatives of non-governmental organizations and representatives of various industry associations.
we did not think that before dawn there would be a long queue for polling stations.
there is nothing to understand here, we must move forward, "said J.Aakhmetbekov.
significant funds are allocated for this, results are already visible.
G. Abdykalikova expressed confidence that cultural and art figures will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
they have the same responsibility, equal opportunities, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to him, the German delegation in Kokshetau today met with local residents.
The purpose of this event is to assist domestic grain producers in promoting their products to foreign markets and finding potential investors.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan as a whole and fully supports the idea of ​ ​ a national "eternal country" - the basis of a new system of national values, the spiritually leading priority of our society.
Towards the end of the event, the participants honored with a minute of silence the memory of the heroes of the Great Patriotic War who fell for our land.
winners and prize-winners were awarded with special diplomas and valuable prizes.
this is 103.7% compared to the same period last year.
According to him, the parameters of the republican budget remain socially oriented.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, representatives of more than 90 nationalities and nationalities live in the West Kazakhstan region.
if the voter knows that on the day of voting he will not and will vote from another polling station. if the voter knows that he will not be able to attend voting , he receives an absentee ballot and vote in other place .
According to the Prosecutor General, the past year for the prosecutor's office was held as part of the execution of the order of the head of state to ensure the effective operation of the legal system in connection with the introduction of new criminal procedure legislation.
therefore, we ask you to agree to hold early presidential elections, "the authors write.
at the same time, the military attaché Andrew Berje and the representative of Great Britain delivered welcoming words with Major Benge.
in Mangistau region there are 1 thousand 299 citizens equated with veterans of the Great Patriotic War, all of them will be provided with various payments at the expense of the local budget.
The Institute of Public Policy presented a draft of the developed training methodology.
"The continuation of the second five-year plan of the state forced industrial innovation program" Employment Roadmap 2020 "will increase the competitiveness of the country's enterprises within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and contribute to the functioning of the economy in the mode of the world trade organization," the Senate deputy said.
The President of the Senate stressed that he fully supports the Chinese concept of the great silk road, has great opportunities for further improvement of economic cooperation between the two countries.
Dozens of representatives of Afghan enterprises of this region, led by the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, came to the forum.
house-building plant for the production of wall panels with a design capacity of 19500 m ³ per year.
instead, we build a road bridge to meet modern requirements. they are pontoon bridges , which are worn and obsolete .
only about 2800 people.
According to the ministry, the competition is timed to coincide with the 20th anniversary of Kazakhstan's ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children.
we must do everything to make our integration an attractive model of economic partnership for other States and increase the number of participants. we must do everything so that our integration has become the attractive model of economic partnership to other states .
Speaking at the opening of the event, abdicalikova noted that the image of fear is a golden bridge for the cultural and spiritual traditions of Turkic peoples throughout Eurasia, as well as that the "Book of the frightening father" is the property of all mankind.
easter good deeds, kind acts, sincere cultural wealth, such as kindness, mutual respect, love for family and the people.
Thus, Almaty will become the center of the world health organization for macaques in the European region.
the new emergency medical station became the next construction facility, where the head of the region, Danial Akhmetov, traveled.
this will increase the reliability of the power supply, reduce the cost of distributing electricity to the regions, reduce the payment of electricity for consumers.
The situation in the village of Zhanazhol, Tselinograd district, Akmola region, is regulated, the water level begins to decline. today 's the situation is normalized in zhanazhol village of tselinograd district of akmola region , there is a decrease in water level .
the highest national body is suitable for solving such competencies as stopping competition for business entities, closing gaps, applying penalties to them, the agency said.
we must not stop there. " Saratov.
Regarding inter-parliamentary relations, the Chairman of the Senate noted that in the current conditions parliamentary diplomacy plays a large role and Kazakhstan is interested in intensifying cooperation with the Parliament of Afghanistan.
According to the press service of the city akimat, the proposed projects are included in the master plan in connection with the expansion of Almaty.
God forbid us to continue to live in peace and harmony, "the letter says.
At the same time, Deputy Minister for Investment and Development Yerlan sagadiyev noted that priority is given to the processing industry.
Currently, he is actively working in the organization of veterans.
this will have a positive impact on agriculture. "
During the meeting, the Chinese side expressed interest in the Kazakh model of state-confessional and interfaith harmony, highly appreciated the unifying importance and significance of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, held in a well-established capital as a platform for global dialogue, on the way to strengthening mutual understanding at the world level between religions and cultures.
therefore, pilots undergo a course of theoretical and practical training before starting flights as part of the group, "says front-line aviation pilot Lieutenant Colonel Urazov.
sniper classes are organized and conducted by instructors in the training of sniper formations and units in the main disciplines: tactical, engineering, fire reconnaissance and military topography.
In the course of familiarization with the work of the facility, the head of the region gave contractors specific instructions for the completion of construction.
specialists will discuss various aspects of the development of domestic surgical activities, voice proposals to improve the health of citizens and reduce mortality from surgical pathologies.
the state, in turn, should create favorable conditions for the development of professionalism.
According to him, the issue of additional measures to increase the effectiveness and speed of relations between macroeconomic regulation of central banks and ministries of economy of the member states of the union has not lost its importance.
contracted military personnel receive significant social support from the State.	the contract soldier receives a solid social support from the state .	0,76
the development of sovereign Kazakhstan in terms of independence, the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. popular science articles on the role of Nazarbayev in creating an independent, comprehensively developing and prosperous state.	independence displays scientific and popular articles on formation of independent kazakhstan , the role of the first president .	0,76
of the legalized 26,745 residential facilities worth 214.5 billion tenge, 14,026 non-residential facilities worth 85.8 billion tenge, including 3,496 commercial facilities worth 60.3 billion tenge, 14 interests of legal entities worth 0.7 billion tenge, securities worth 2.5 billion tenge.	it is noted that the local authorities received 32,400 applications totaling 303.4 billion tenge for the legalization of property located on the territory of the republic : 26,745 residential units in the amount of 214.5 billion tenge ; 14,026 non-residential facilities in the amount of 85.8 billion tenge , including 3,496 commercial buildings worth 60.3 billion tenge ; 14 shares in legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge ; and securities worth 2.5 billion tenge .	0,76
planting deciduous and coniferous trees are distributed free of charge in cities.	all regional centers planted more than 5,000 young trees in the parks , squares , streets and courtyards of the city .	0,76
450 collectives of the city took part in the charity event.	450 groups of the city , which is almost 10 thousand people , participated in the litter pick campaign .	0,76
he assured that relations between Kazakhstan and Uruguay, established in a warm, friendly spirit, will continue.	he noted that the kazakh-uruguayan relations have a warm , friendly nature and noted that the development of bilateral cooperation will be continued .	0,76
we must develop and thrive.	we need to develop and work together for the sake of our kazakhstan .	0,76
Thus, the Minister noted that after 2016 Kazakhstan will be fully provided with domestic fuel and diesel fuel.	as for ai-95 and ai-98 gasoline- from 0.7up to 10 percent ,  the minister stated .
In addition, in honor of the opening of the akim of the region, Erik Sultanov presented the medical institution with a new intensive care unit.
your re-election is a clear indication of the confidence of the Kazakhstani people in your visionary leadership. your victory is a clear evidence of the faith of the people of kazakhstan in your leadership .
Also, students were presented with architectural forms of international exhibitions, which were presented at the exhibition and subsequently became a symbol of the state in which this exhibition took place.
The head of state got acquainted with the progress of the work and talked with the builders of the facility.
the central square of Kostanay at that time was a large dance platform.
As you know, there are insurance conditions, and this is necessary to insure the deposits of our people, if we need more, we will insure, "N. Nazarbayev said.
issues of economic development of Kazakhstan caused a great exchange of views.
the index of the volume of livestock production amounted to 103.5%.
Access to design capacity is planned for the 2nd half of 2019.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, akim visited a number of training classes for specialists of cooks, hairdressers, car repair workers and tractor drivers.
During the celebration of the spring of victory, representatives of the association of people with disabilities familiarized themselves with the activities of the organization aimed at protecting and supporting people with disabilities.
the President instructed to connect the center of Kazakhstan with the main large regions.
ya. According to Denisenko, all Kazakhstanis are ready to make decisions for the country, to protect it until false blood remains.
30 million tenge and 9 million tenge were allocated for ekibastuz and axe of two single-industry towns of the region this year, respectively.
members of the board considered each candidate personally, took into account their abilities, career experience and merits.
in Kostanay tomato prices rose by 14% from 350 to 400 tenge/kg.
"katyusha," "blue handkerchief," "holy warrior," "May waltz."
the document provides for the involvement in the Republic of Kazakhstan of advanced German experience in the process of mastering modern technologies and introducing innovation in the relevant field.
A detailed report was presented in this area, which reflects a set of measures to optimize this industry, "A.Bobyakov said.
We are also grateful for the high level of organizing an international conference dedicated to the 290th anniversary of the birth of the poet-poetess of the Turkmen people, "Davdanov emphasized.
Thanks to your extensive experience and wise management of the country, the Republic of Kazakhstan will continue to play an active and constructive role in the region and in the international arena. i am confident that with your vast experience and outstanding leadership the country will continue to play an active and constructive role in the region and in the international arena .
the system itself includes stationary and mobile devices on which an "emergency button" of an emergency call is installed.
and manufacturing grew by 1%. "
Thanks to this, you can hold summer championships and ride roller skates.
In 1943, the idea was put forward to assign the title of Hero of the Soviet Union to Suleimenev.
today, the issue of restoring trust is very relevant. the german mp also noted that lack of trust is a major challenge to global security .
As part of the memorandum, we plan to train specialists until we have clearly determined the direction and number of doctors. as part of the memorandum , we plan to train specialists .
In conclusion, the participants noted that the joint program between the United Nations and the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region will make a great contribution to the development of the region.
Recall that today in the capital, within the framework of the meeting of heads of government of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, meetings of the leaders of the member states of the organization are held.
The international observer also expressed interest in having the elections accompanied by music and medical services.
a further measure is the creation of a single information platform. the next event is the creation of a unified information platform .
Together with Kazakhstan, we are ready to make every effort to strengthen mutual support on key issues of mutual interest.
Recall that the acceptance of applications for the republican competition will last until March 1, 2015.
I hope that during your presidency these processes will be completed. i hope that under your presidency these procedures will be completed .
we not only took advantage of this experience, but also supplemented it, "the head of state said.
The Nұr Otan Party calls on all citizens, political parties and public forces to support the initiative to hold early presidential elections.
Also, the participants of the event were presented the book exhibition "Peace of Friendship - Planet of Friendship," aimed at intercultural relations of citizens living in Kazakhstan.
they are required to appear on Internet sites daily.
According to the Nұr Otan party, according to the RZhKP, due to the lack of a separate organization during the implementation of the program, it is impossible to ensure the full effectiveness of the implementation of the measures established in it.
voter turnout was 95.22%.
This area of ​ ​ the transport and logistics complex was reflected in the new economic policy of the head of state "nұrly zhol."
on the same day, it will again be shown that in the future it is necessary to create all conditions for children to create a society filled with morality, justice, rich life.
During the exchange of prisoners, his father comes to the growth of the Soviet Union, where he is checked by law enforcement agencies and acquitted, "said the rear veteran.
In addition, the bank plans to finance the construction by placing conditional deposits in second-tier banks for further lending to construction companies.
and on the surface - 1.5 billion jobs.
According to the senator, despite large changes in the judicial system, it is still necessary to improve the structures of regional courts.
According to Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, real growth of investments due to prices amounted to 12.5%.
after the collegiate meeting, participants and guests of the conference took part in the work of three sections in the format of training and excursion to the historical and ethnographic museum of the gymnasium.
an important document of the state, drawn up as the second constitution of the state, we must take this into account at the session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and prepare a document of the "eternal country," which will be clear to all of us, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the same time, the volume of gross regional product for 9 months of last year increased by 10.5%.
the next day, the children will take part in the event itself, "said A.Dauletiyarov.
in addition, they will share impressions received over a long time.
Election campaigning can also be carried out in accordance with the procedure established by law, and through pre-election public events not prohibited by constitutional law (meetings and meetings with voters, public discussions and discussions, rallies, marches, demonstrations and other public events).
25 Russian and 25 Kazakh singers will perform on the stage, who will be able to see viewers from the regions of Kazakhstan and 100 million viewers from the countries of the post-Soviet space, "he said.
A meeting was also held with representatives of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region and the Center for Investor Support at Irtysh Akk.
This year, the future program relies on quality indicators.
You know, the initiative to hold presidential elections is caused by sincere feelings, frank intentions of the people. understand that the initiative to hold the presidential election comes from the sincere feelings , open intentions of people .
in his opinion, this object has great potential not only in Kazakhstan, but also in the Central Asian zone.
The plans of the organizers of the subbotnik include cleaning the streets from cokes, cleaning stocks, breaking trees, painting and whitening the city fences.
I am a historian of knowledge, graduated from Kazakh State University named after S.M.Kr.
on the same day, the Majilismen will consider the amendments made by the Senate of Parliament to the bill on insurance and Islamic financing.
in accordance with the technical regulations of the Customs Union on the safety of precious vehicles, issues of safety of wheeled vehicles in operation in a single territory are regulated by national legislation on the technical inspection of vehicles, "the statement said.
At the same time, special attention was paid to elderly citizens, that is, veterans of the Second World War, who cannot come to the polling station on their own, "the observer said.
the board of the Euro-Asian Economic Commission, as in other member countries of the union, will consist of three members of Armenia.
Among students in grades 7-11 of general education schools and secondary professional educational institutions, an international competition "Mathematics and Design" was organized, which was held on the basis of the Academy of Social Management in Moscow.
Currently, seeds are being harvested, "said the head of the department of agriculture and mechanization of the department of agriculture of the Kyzylorda region of nurymbets.
sandwich panel plant
Compared to December 1, 2013, the population increased by 1.47%.
At the end of the flower festival, fireworks took place.
During the meeting of the bureau, a proposal was submitted to the agenda of the next meeting of the chamber on February 26, 2015.
To date, higher bodies such as the highest court of appeal, the court of cassation and the supervisory court have been given the obligation to fill these gaps, "said B. Nazarov.
According to parliamentarians, relations between the two countries have great opportunities.
sanatorium and resort recreation is also organized.
negotiations were under way.
at the same time, the constitutional law obliges the media to objectively reflect the election campaign of candidates, to avoid the publication of campaign materials and other information that deliberately undermines the candidate's honor, dignity and business reputation.
Igor (50 kg) and Tatyana cabbage (+ 69 kg) not only tied the gold awards of the competition to the dagger, but also as a result of spectator voting became the best weightlifters of the World Championship among boys and girls under 17 years old.
The ceremony was attended by representatives of the city intelligentsia, artists, representatives of the nationalities of the city friendship house, students, guests of the city.
According to him, all the initiatives and tasks of the head of state have always been implemented.
According to the press service of the region, the memorandum was signed by Governor of the city Y. Omarov, Chairman of the regional association of trade unions "Aktobe Regional Trade Union Center" T.Azharykov.
During the meeting, the leadership of the national agency told Almaty residents in detail about the state support tools for exporters and about the main support measures.
According to him, the region of Kazakhstan will be the base for the construction of warehouses where goods from Asia and Europe will be sent.
From the first days of the war, the protection of the fatherland became the duty of all Kazakhstanis.
invested funds and 4 years of training for young people should become owners of a very sought-after specialty, "said the director of the Trade and Economic College of the Kazakh Consumer Union.
during the war years he served military duty on the second Baltic Front.
today, each country has its own regulatory documents. at the moment , each country has its own regulations .
working together, we will not stop our factory production, but on the other hand work out the production of cheap fuel. "
It is worth noting that thanks to the launch of this project, the region under the Affordable Housing -2020 program can build not only house-building plants in other regions.
Among the documents received at the meeting are a bill on public procurement, draft amendments on environmental issues, as well as a bill on the ratification of the Kazakh-Belarusian intergovernmental agreement on readmission.
already, global companies such as hp, toyota, dhl are interested in using eea. the mentioned foreign companies are interested in using of the sez as a distribution point of their products at the market .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance that the conflicting parties ensured the strict implementation of the set of measures adopted in the Minsk agreements.
Kazakh traditional singing is an art that occupies a large place among the richest spiritual heritage of our people. kazakh traditional songs art is a huge asset that has a special place in the rich spiritual heritage of our people .
At the same time, the Minister noted that the high activity of foreign applicants has remained over the past five years.
In each direction, our common house makes its contribution to the development of peace and harmony in the Republic of Kazakhstan - said T.Kerneg.
In this regard, the leadership of the Malaysian Ashma was invited to take part in the akiu general assembly and the ministerial conference on food security and agricultural development scheduled for April 13-15, 2015 in Astana, the statement said.
Last year, a warehouse of class "a" was launched here, meeting international standards.
The document establishes mechanisms for the examination of information products, establishes requirements for experts, the procedure for registering experts and expert organizations, and delimits the powers of state bodies regulating this area, the Senate press service said.
the history of independence "- the founder of Kazakhstan's statehood with a new history of an independent state, the place of the first president N. Nazarbayev in society, politics and the economy, analysis of the global situation, civil responsibility, a deep awareness of historical duty to the people, not only within the framework of Kazakhstan realize the ideas of sustainable development and interethnic peace, but also a multi-volume work that reveals visibility, skillful qualities, dedication, raised to the world level.
To date, the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" has begun accepting applications from unemployed young people who want to find employment in facilities built as part of the Nұrly zhol program through the post office of Kazpost JSC in villages.
We highly appreciate the activities of the World Assembly for the Rapprochement of Islamic Madhabists in maintaining peace and promoting dialogue, as well as the active participation of representatives of the assembly in the congress. we commend the work of the world assembly for the maintenance of peace and dialogue and constructive participation of representatives of the assembly in the congress .
The expert also noted that, despite the presence of elements of a governing body in the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, it is closely connected with ethnic groups.
In addition, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, the work on the provision of medical services in schools should be transferred to the Ministry of Health.
We urge all Kazakhstanis, workers, everyone who considers the stability and systemic development of sovereign Kazakhstan expensive, to support early presidential elections, "the letter says.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the importance of five institutional reforms for the further development of the country, the creation of a national commission on modernization for its clear and systematic implementation.
The press conference will be held with the participation of Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov.
According to election commissions, voters actively vote at polling stations. according to data provided by the electoral commissions , voters are very active at polling stations .
According to him, the voting takes place calmly, without violations, in the established manner.
In turn, Maurice expressed interest in developing a dialogue between Riperian associations, the report said.
according to the plan, a general practitioner, an obstetrician, a child paramedic and a dentist will conduct an appointment.
he informed the Czech leader about the socio-economic and socio-political development of Kazakhstan under the Nұrly zhol program.
Each stependiant spends the first six months in Kazakhstan in the capital and Almaty.
this figure is 15.68 people per thousand people, "said the chairman.
The Secretary of State drew attention to the need to improve institutional approaches, attract investment and innovation in the further development of women's entrepreneurship and create modern infrastructure for training and training of women.
transfer of the right to vote in elections to someone else, as well as voting for another person (article 41 of the constitutional law).
therefore, comprehensive measures are being taken to inform and minimize the conditions for corruption.
previously, an interactive board, a personal laptop were a sign of wealth, but thanks to the president it became a reality.
The bright path for everyone has become the "curet of the whole country," the leader of the nation emphasized.
this is the result of effective cooperation between Kazakhstan and Belarus.
screening medical examinations are the most effective method of preventing and early detection of malignancies. screening medical examinations of the population are the most effective method of prevention and early diagnosis of malignant tumors .
these projects will provide 1,000 jobs for the inhabitants of the region.
The solemn event was accompanied by a military parade dedicated to the celebration of Great Victory Day.
It was attended by all citizens of the republican level, from rural districts to regional centers.
at the meetings of the certification commissions of military units, based on the experience of the sardars and moral and business qualities, various advice and recommendations were given for the further continuation of their activities, the Ministry of Defense said.
In particular, the highway of the Astana-growth direction will allow developing small and medium-sized businesses on this road.
During the event, the leaders of the Ural and Manisa cities signed a protocol of intent to establish fraternal ties between cities.
Every year, during the spawning season, law and environmental authorities work together to prevent illegal fishing, marketing, acquisition and illegal transportation of valuable fish species.
this applies to the restoration of irrigation systems, the management of unused land, and the development of sugar beet production.
As noted in the report, this will not only save jobs, but also contribute to the socio-economic development of the country.
Housing under construction as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program is coming to an end.
according to him, there is interest in these elections.
The adopted law served as the basis for a significant increase in the number of international publications of Kazakh scientists in rating journals.
It is noted that the board meeting reviewed the implementation of the comprehensive plan, for the implementation of which 351.5 billion tenge is provided from all sources of financing.
- publication in the mass media of the results of public opinion poll, forecast of election results, other studies related to elections within five days and on the day of voting;
The leaders of the two states stressed the need for the strict implementation of the Minsk agreements by the parties, which will contribute to an early peaceful settlement and build confidence.
transport and traffic management became relevant issues of the forum.
After graduation, everyone has ready-made business projects.
experts are interested in studying our market.
In addition, 275 participants of the program will be covered with temporary social jobs, 25.344 million tenge will be allocated for subsidizing wages; youth practice - 220 people, 39.471 million tenge is provided for wage subsidies.
According to the minister, one of the priority areas of the concept can be called the activation of public-private partnerships and business initiatives.
The elections clearly demonstrated unity, love for the leader of Kazakhstanis.
in addition, VS-295 has clear advantages of strength, control flexibility, high flexibility, the presence of an automatic engine, reliability of the control work structure, effective anti-icing structure, as well as high creativity in emergency situations.
Since the beginning of the year, the unemployment rate has decreased from 5.1 to 4.9%.
According to the Ministry of Defense, by studying the languages ​ ​ of various nationalities, listening officers will have the opportunity to familiarize themselves with valuable works on the history, culture and customs of a certain state, on the formation of the army and military affairs of this state.
the specifics of this social network allow you to obtain the necessary information accurately and if necessary. the uniqueness of this social network is the ability to get reliable information .
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to take measures to organize the twenty-second session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the order says.
The championship was held in Moscow.
in this regard, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan called on the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the Parliamentary Assembly to establish their monitoring missions and began consultations with these structures on this issue.
n. The lake is the main area of ​ ​ interaction between the two countries in the military sphere, including training of Kazakhstani servicemen in military educational institutions of Turkey, equipping Kazakh military units, supporting reforms of the military forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the solemn ceremony of the solemn meeting of the symbol of taikazan was held as a theatrical performance.
Today, every citizen of Kazakhstan can openly express his opinion on the healthcare sector at any level and take part in improving the quality of medical services.
Note that the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party is taking place in the capital.
the bureau also considered the issue of the release and election of judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the release of a judge of the economic court of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
The purpose of the field campaign is to increase the skill of military personnel in the open area, improve skills that are as similar as possible to the real situation, "the report said.
as a result, eastern Ukraine, where the main industrial enterprises are located, was destroyed.
today a new type of production is being implemented for the republic - membrane technology, "said E. Orymbekov.
The Chairman of the Commission spoke in detail about the activities of the Commission on Human Rights, about the environmental rights of citizens enshrined in the Constitution, the Environmental Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the concept of the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to sustainable development for 2007-2024.
It is worth noting that the production cooperative was created as part of a fiasco that prepares dried, fillet, rare species and frozen fish products.
environmental cleanliness is a major issue for the growing industry.
The business community is convinced that only the leader of the nation will be able to move our state forward, "oshakbayev added.
The rector of Hadjetepe University, speaking at the opening ceremony of the conference, noted that Kazakhstan is a strategic partner for Turkey and expressed readiness to actively continue humanitarian cooperation between the two countries.
The republican information group included representatives of central state bodies, deputies of the Senate and the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He also described steps in the area of law and order, noting that the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings was under the special attention of prosecutors.
In addition, students not only think through a business idea, but also develop plans for its further implementation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the comprehensive development of Kazakhstan, thanks to which the economy of Central Asia is the largest country.
During the meeting, the head of the region instructed the akims of rural districts to begin preparations for the winter heating season from today.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the need to ensure effective control over uranium production, the importance of mutually beneficial cooperation with leading foreign companies and the implementation of joint projects.
this is primarily due to ensuring the harmonization of the legal system of the member states of the union, "said A. Beissenbaev.
On January 22, 2015, the Private Cooperation Program between Eidu-Kazakhstan for 2015-2016 was signed in Davos, which is a sign that bilateral relations have reached a high level.
Recall that on the basis of the Shayan brigade of the Kyrgyz Republic, joint exercises of special forces units of the armed forces of the Shu member states are being held.
you can always count on the support of the federal government in further expanding the spheres of partnership between our countries, created on trust, as well as strengthening the principles of democracy, the rule of law and civil society in Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
a multinational and multinational country is an advantage, not a disadvantage, which can serve as an example for living in peace and harmony.
was the commander of a rifle platoon.
from. Abdullah, in turn, accepted a letter calling for gratitude and said that he would go to the capital of Kazakhstan.
It is also necessary to pay attention to increasing the domestic share in transport construction.
For two years of operation, the S-295 has proven itself in our natural and climatic conditions as a reliable and unstable aircraft.
The construction of hc is planned to be completed in 2018.
relatives, descendants and historians of the Spaniards who disappeared in Karlag were presented with their burial places, interviews with survivors, statements by local residents and historians.
the parties touched upon certain issues of economic cooperation within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, and also discussed new challenges related to the situation in the Middle East and Afghanistan, the report said.
We believe that the holding of presidential elections in the new economic conditions will make it possible to realize the concept of a society of universal labor.
The main part of the event discussed indicators of the level of development within the framework of the Fiid program, as well as issues of production of domestic products.
The main goals of the system are maintaining a single register of all permits and licenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan, simplifying the application procedure for obtaining a permit, transparency of the process from submitting an application to receiving a response and reducing administrative costs.
And here we see that the role of economic diversification is very large.
The exhibition can be organized thanks to the works of famous artists of our country.
the achievements achieved by the republic are a vivid reflection of the strategic vision and political efforts of the head of state, as well as the ruthless activities and hard work of the country's citizens.
Also today, an agreement has been ratified between the Government of Kazakhstan and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam aimed at preventing double taxation and tax evasion.
lower oil prices, in turn, will lead to lower prices for other goods. oil prices fall is accompanied by low prices for gold and metals .
During this time, we built hundreds of schools and hospitals.
First of all, the conduct of educational work inside the country begins with kindergarten.
ensuring the rule of law
in air communications.
according to the agency, this is a stationary integrated engineering infrastructure with a support and support function, developed for storing and disseminating data by a centralized monitoring and control system, hosting and functioning software and hardware processing complexes.
In general, the participants of the meeting noted that this congress will be a bright event of the EXPO-2017 exhibition, which will show the real appearance of Kazakhstan's science.
after that, we placed children in audiences, it took a lot of time, the children were tired.
In general, the region has created all the necessary opportunities for proper spring field work.
Representative of the Council on International Affairs from the city of Hunteville. Special attention was drawn among the participants to the reports of killers on the role of the financial intelligence service in combating corruption and on the practice of preventing corruption offenses in the state, civil and municipal activities of the head of the department for public service affairs and personnel issues of the Ulyanovsk region of the Russian Federation. Grouse, the department said.
As the Majilisman noted, these innovations are necessary when oil prices in the world market fall.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the ritz-carlton hotel was chosen as the venue for the forum as a vivid example of the built and Kazakh-Austrian economic cooperation between Kazakh investments.
Certified vaccines are procured by the Ministry of Health and Social Development in order to provide children with vaccines of guaranteed quality. in addition , in order to provide vaccines of assured quality , the ministry of health and social protection buys vaccines certified by who . , " - the vice-minister added .
its goal is to establish contacts, further promote cooperation between the eurozone countries and the European Union, and improve the skills of educators.
The granular polypropylene plant was built in 2013-2014.
In accordance with Government Decision No. 392 of 25 March 2009, an annual electricity tariff is established from 2009 to 2015 on the basis of the "investment tariff."
the competitiveness of our enterprises and the industry of Kazakhstan will depend on our knowledge obtained in our country, "the minister said.
the document provides for interdepartmental cooperation in order to develop general proposals for the prevention of offenses, the exchange of information and the improvement of legislation in the field of intellectual property.	the agreement provides for inter inter-agency cooperation in order to develop proposals for improving the legislation , the exchange of information on how to identify and suppress violations of intellectual property .	0,77
The meeting also discussed the development of animal husbandry.	as a result , for two years , the region received a record harvest of rice .	0,77
The role of abylai Khan in the production was played by famous actors - kuandyk kystykbaev, as well as the main characters - Dzhaibek musaev, kasymkhan bugybai, karpseitov.	the part of ablai khan will be performed by a talented actor kuandyk kystybbayev , along with them , the main characters will be performed by zhankaldybek tolenbayev , zhanibek musaev , kasymkhan bugybai and gaukhar zhusipova .	0,77
one work requires analytical, that is, balance, sitting on the spot, working with documents, the other requires organizational qualities.	however , as practice shows , the civil service positions require different types of work .	0,77
Before the discussion, participants and guests got acquainted with the exhibitions dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 100th anniversary of m.gabdullin and i.esenberlin, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	in addition , before the panel discussion , the guests and participants learned about the exhibition dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate , the 70th anniversary of the great victory , the 100th anniversary of m. gabdullin , i.yesenberlin , the 20th anniversary of the constitution of kazakhstan , the 20th anniversary of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	0,77
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan announced the results of the execution of the republican budget, problems and shortcomings that are constantly identified during the planning and use of funds.	besides , the chairman of the accounts committee for control over execution of the republican budget briefed on execution of the republican budget in 2014 , system problematic issues and and shortcomings while planning and use of funds .	0,77
a number of war veterans and home front workers received the following state awards: the Order for Valiant Labor, the Medal for Valiant Labor and an honorary certificate.
According to the Ministry, the co-chair of the working group from Kazakhstan, the First Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan salidat kairbekova noted that today Kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of medical tourism and called on the Austrian side to close cooperation in this area.
All veterans of the Great Patriotic War and defenders of the Fatherland were congratulated on the holiday by the akim of the region, chairman of the regional defense council of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev.
the parties expressed interest in further strengthening cooperation between the competent authorities of the two countries in countering the threats of our time, developing common approaches to solving regional issues of combating crime.
Since March 26, registered candidates can enter election campaigning.
Kostanais deployed this laboratory based on the experience of the South Ural State University of the Chelyabinsk Region.
and the main task is the creation of a legal space for the functioning of state youth policy actors, the formation of mechanisms for effective work with young people and the expansion of youth rights.
in friendly times, he worked at Soviet-party work - chairman of the district executive committee, 1st secretary of the district party committee.
At the end of the event, military personnel of the Vostok regional command saluted three times in honor of all the heroes of the Great Patriotic War.
Following the meeting, B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions to state bodies regarding the timely and qualitative execution of the action plan for the preparation and holding of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
this will allow agricultural producers to regularly spend the year. "
veterans thanked the employees of the internal affairs bodies for congratulations on the big holiday.
The Microsoft it academy program is a comprehensive curriculum that provides globally recognized technological knowledge and offers certification for students, teachers, and employees.
today Kazakhstan art masters will show our compatriots and friends their spiritual riches. "
efficiency depends on quality, on how it meets the objective needs of the development of society, "said E. Nurgalieva.
the seminar is aimed at training primary school teachers on the use of a criterion assessment system during classes as part of a project to clarify the updated education system at the initiative of the Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools team.
At the beginning of this year, a big event took place in the field of subsoil use, changes were made to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on subsoil use in terms of the transition to international standards. at the beginning of this year the existing law on subsoil use was amended .
According to the press service of the region, this project is not the only project implemented within the framework of Argan JSC.
The Nurimed Medicine Center is located in the center of the city of the zharkent in a new form, "the report said.
here we see that very careful measures have been taken by the state.
and in conditions of competition in the political arena, no one will give them away.
the governments of the two countries are instructed to develop mutually beneficial solutions.
in this regard, e. Idrissov paid great attention to such elements of reform as the creation of a highly qualified government, the adoption of the rules of meritocracy, the strengthening of the rule of law, etc.
the purpose of these festivals is to share experiences. the purpose of these festivals is to exchange of experiences .
they help veterans in the economy: unloading grass, removing snow, cleaning yards and working at home, "said the head of the Mughalzhar district department of internal policy gulnaz tulebayev.
According to e. Dossayev, in April-May it is planned to carefully complete these negotiations.
We are currently developing a new humanitarian assistance project.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP, the innovation in creating a business council is the norm for annual meetings.
Following the discussion, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions to the government and entrusted the secretariat of the security council with monitoring their implementation.
As the Minister noted, since last year in all areas we have developed the necessary working plans.
Today, great importance is attached to solving the problems of industrial infrastructure and problematic issues of industrial enterprises. today , much attention is paid to the development of industrial infrastructure , addressing problems in the industry .
it unites the Kazakh population.
Since then, the Kazakh khanate appeared, kerei and jungle already 550 years ago themselves stood out and formed the state, "said the leader of the nation.
"We have identified measures to improve judicial practice in the investigation of criminal cases related to corruption, including issues of further improvement of legislation," the judge concluded.
According to him, in the field of subsoil use, especially in geological exploration, it is planned to apply the transformation.
Director of the Indian Scientific Institute noted that our country, under the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan, is on the path to implementing reforms, development and prosperity.
In the 1st quarter of 2015, 380 families or 1026 ethnic Kazakhs arrived in the country and received the status of Oralmans.
v investment forum will last 2 days, the first day will be held in Baikonur, the second day - in Kyzylorda.
Congratulating the ambassador on his work, the Majilis speaker noted that Venezuela is one of the promising partners of Kazakhstan in Latin America.
among them, the development of an automated system of state bodies, their harmonization, reduction of licensing activities and permitting functions of state bodies, increased transparency of public procurement processes, and the inclusion of representatives of the civil society institute in regional anti-corruption commissions. among them there are : the development of automated state bodies , their unification , reduction of licensed activities and licensing functions of government , increasing the transparency of public procurement procedures , including the regional anti-corruption commission of representatives of civil society institutions .
This is the first day of summer since 1950.
a woman - responsible, first of all, for the happiness of generations, for her future, as well as for the future of our Motherland.
our country is flourishing, the country - the heart of the people, the state - has become known to the whole world.
D. Emberdiev thanked the Lebanese side for supporting all international initiatives of Kazakhstan and expressed hope for the support of our country as a traditional partnership in the international arena.
the proposals of the Kostanay region provide for constant employment at systemically forming enterprises, "the report said.
As the director of the college noted zauresh askarova, last year 326 students studied at this educational institution.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan aslan Sarinzhipov signed a sectoral agreement on social partnership between the Ministry and the Kazakhstan public association of sectoral education and science workers for 2015-2017.
On the eve of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, military personnel organize social events, cultural events, the presentation of commemorative gifts and traditional support to front-line soldiers.
on this day, the house of arcats was full of guests. today , the house is full of guests .
In the distribution of social rental houses, priority is given to large families, incomplete families, families with or raising a disabled child, orphans, children left without parental care, oralmans, civil servants, military personnel of special state bodies, employees of budgetary organizations. while distributing the social rental housing , large families , families with children with disabilities , repatriated kazakhs , civil servants and representatives of budget organizations will be in favour .
consciously aware of the responsibility to the future, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, repaying the civil and patriotic duty on the basis of the interests of the people and people, calls on all peoples of Kazakhstan to achieve the goal set and create a developed, prosperous state with the personal participation of each of them.
In his speech a.a.a., Andreev thanked the operational services of the Department TD Pavlodar region for timely exchange of information and timely exchange of information when supplying environmental waters and moving ice from the reservoir of the Verkhneirtyshsky cascade, "the statement said.
The event was organized within the framework of the project of the Ministry of Education and Science and with the support of ethnocultural associations of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the topic "Formation of inter-ethnic tolerance in conditions of agrarian linguistic and cultural diversity."
As the expert noted, each theater puts not only productions of its authors, but also Kazakhstanis.
the police should strive to gain public confidence, "added Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an important milestone in the formation of Kazakh statehood.
Currently, 3 thousand 500 people are involved in the construction.
we must consolidate this strictly by law, "the head of state emphasized.
An independent topic of the conversation was the issue of expanding and strengthening the legal framework.
We will adopt this document at the Extraordinary III Congress on April 9, and for us this is a very important event.
According to reports, the construction of the stadium was completed in the village of Sarykol, a gym was built in the village of Kusmurun in the Auliekol district.
At the same time, as A. Bely noted, independent experts will control the economic efficiency, energy efficiency of facilities.
and all his colleagues talked about pensioners and the fact that they spoke well of an honest person, recalling that the lectures he gave were always interesting for the audience, and received respect in the team.
In general, the emir's father expressed support for all initiatives to strengthen bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Qatar and took its implementation under personal control.
According to adilbek dzhaksybekov, the head of state stands at the origins of the capital's sports, special attention is paid to the construction of modern facilities that meet world requirements for all sports.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the exhibition, an exhibition will be held with the participation of R. Zhoshybayev took part in the 5th meeting of the ministers of tourism of the silk road countries of the world tourism organization, where he spoke about the development of tourism in Kazakhstan, the role of Kazakhstan in realizing the potential of the silk road and the main directions of the message of the head of state "bright road."
In particular, in Kyzylorda region systematic diversification of agricultural products is carried out.
similar events are regularly held in military units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
representatives of the republican youth organization "Kharasym" at the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan write that they are proud of the systematic development of the country and intend to actively participate in strengthening its forces.
this event will bring the cooperation of the Caspian countries to a new level and will make a significant contribution to the development of relations between the military in a spirit of friendship and high respect for the history and traditions of the armed forces of the CIS member states.
the report stated that all electoral deadlines had been met and that the Central Electoral Commission and the regional electoral commissions had made their work transparent.
According to representatives of akimat, during the meeting representatives of ethnocultural associations and employees of science, teachers and students will discuss the formation of ethnocultural associations in the country, the history of the formation of the regional friendship house and other topical issues.
a schedule of periodic work on the preparation of educational programs has been prepared. a step by step time-table for the development of educational programs has been developed .
I am sincerely happy that I was able to make a simple contribution to the development of boxing and sports in our country, give you and all our compatriots joy, develop the heritage of our state, "the letter says.
A special working group was created in the party's branch complex, which included representatives of local executive bodies, employees of museums and archives.
this issue is not raised and does not move, it must be resolved and completed, "said Z. Samashev.
Thus, for the first time in the Eurasian continent, an economic association with powerful natural resources and potential has been created on a voluntary basis. "
production networks are fully computerized, all processes such as heating, drip irrigation, perforation are fully automated, "the report said.
the opening of such an office will allow to master advanced technologies being introduced in the European zone, to form the intellectual potential of healthcare in the country and to instill in Kazakhstan the best world muscle practices. the opening of this office will maintain cutting-edge technologies being introduced in the european region , to form the intellectual potential of the country 's health and adapt global best practices for primary health care in kazakhstan .
The election of Polish President Nursultan Nazarbayev will contribute to the further development of bilateral cooperation and the strengthening of friendship, partnership and bilateral interest.
conscripts recognized as fit for health reasons and other information are recommended to study in military educational institutions and special organizations of the Ministry of Defense.
The most important decorative element in the center of the hall is a golden dome in the form of a three-meter shanyrak.
the second State shall submit to it the accounting of the amount of tax paid.
implementation of the envisaged measures will allow the courts of the republic to contribute to improving the effectiveness of anti-corruption policy, reduce the level of corruption in the country and create conditions for "zero" tolerance of any of its manifestations.
however, not all paintings coincide with the structure presented.
It is noted that future builders got acquainted with the technique of manufacturing materials and answered questions of interest to them.
during the repair work of the sewage hatch of public services in the city of Semey, two workers who were poisoned by gas were rescued.
now the president's words are the first economy, then politics.
here the head of the department solemnly handed over the keys to fire trucks on the basis of "iveco."
It is worth noting that this year a single national testing in Kazakhstan will be held from June 2 to 15.
It is worth noting that in 2015 it is planned to allocate 4.3 billion tenge from the republican budget to further implement the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, to ensure employment of unemployed, self-employed and 3330 low-income people.
the visit ended with a meeting on job conservation and social stability.
servicemen of the Kazbat peacekeeping battalion and several units of airmobile troops take part in the planned training of instructor officers.
we hope that this prize will be an incentive for the next group. we hope it will give impetus to further commands .
this is the voice of the assembly in parliament. "
During the implementation of the program, proposals are received from citizens of Kazakhstan, including deputies, to reduce property tax rates. while implementing the programs , we received offers of the citizens of kazakhstan and the deputies of the majilis to change the property tax rate .
According to him, Kazakhstan today is one of the top twenty in Olympic sports.
It is noted that the construction of three apartment buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 20.6 thousand square meters has been completed and two houses with a total area of ​ ​ 20.2 thousand square meters are being built in the Urals.
I hope that our discussions will contribute to the development of the world economy, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
in addition, bus stations and passenger service points in rural districts will be built in the districts.
Another important part of the infrastructure of the center is a high-quality information and communication system.
paratroopers master the features of shooting from small arms, the use of armor-piercing transporters in battle, as well as throwing hand-fired grenades, the Ministry of Defense said.
According to the head of the region K. Bozumbayev, the consistent implementation of the strategy will bring the growth rate of the economy to 6-8% annually.
This investment project has been implemented in nine countries.
It is also expected that the meeting will be addressed by the Vice Minister for Investment and Development Albert Rau, the General Director of Tengizshevroil Timothy Glen Miller LLP, the Union of Service Companies of Kazakhstan and a long-time ugambai from the oil and gas and mining industries, "kaznipimunaigas" murat kurbanbaev.
to achieve sustainable development, we need a larger format of global dialogue than the current g-7 or g-20.
the congratulation noted that the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, approved by presidential decree, began in all regions of the country.
The jury, summing up the results of the competition, notes that every year the number of new persons is growing.
- We actively continue patriotic education of youth on the example of our fascist ancestors.
The current forum will discuss the trends of the current marketing year in domestic and world grain markets, the export potential of domestic grain, the problems of developing the grain market infrastructure, the potential for exporting domestic flour, changes in the field of compulsory insurance in crop production, the report said.
Yesterday, a government meeting was held with the republican budget commission, at which changes and amendments were made to the parameters of the republican budget, designed for the next three years, taking into account the instructions of the head of state given at the expanded government meeting on February 11, 2015, "said Mr. Karagusova.
that is, in the country, special attention is paid to getting rid of commodity dependence.
Because it takes place as a national holiday, which speaks of the patriotic feeling and state consciousness of the Kazakh people.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Canada Konstantin Zhigalov emphasized that the Canadian business community, providing for the opening or expansion of business in the country, are target readers of the business directory.
in the subgroup of kalim amine and ligai darya, they were awarded the titles of laureates of the first degree, as well as diplomas of the second place - architects, tusenova camilla, sarsenbekov baby and kushnareva darya.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the event was organized by the UN Secretary General, the President of the UN General Assembly and the UN High Representative for the Alliance of Civilization, Abdulaziz al-Nasser.
in the ecological units of the green country, 1,180 soldiers will be involved in the improvement of the territories of cities and regions of the region.
even many nature users who received water bodies for fishing came to the conclusion that there was enough capacity to fulfill the state order and improve water bodies.
according to the assigned tasks, air assets came out "with honors" indicating the highest skill and flight skills.
The construction of the monument began several years ago.	work on the memorial began several years ago .	0,78
In the fourth quarter of 2014, the economic literacy rate for women was within 38.2%, for men - 26.3%.	according to preliminary data , during 2014 12 thousand 300 breeding pairs were created in the region , and 5000 were disintegrated .	0,78
By the end of 2015, an additional 3300 MW will be commissioned.	until the end of 2015 the introduction of additional capacity will reach 3,300 mw .	0,78
Special rank of Lieutenant General of Police:	special rank of lieutenant general of police to :	0,78
Participation in the Astana parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of World War II, despite my inexhaustible age, is a great honor for me and my loved ones.
And beginners business ladies have very interesting, promising projects.
The briefing will be attended by Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Marat Azilkhanov, Chairman of the Committee on Religious Affairs of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, scientist Chugkin, Director of the republican state institution "Research and Analytical Center on Religious Issues" of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Ainur abdirasylkizi.
these are representatives of culture and art, poets and writers, representatives of public associations.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, large-scale measures are being carried out by the state in this direction.
in total, the relay participants will cover about 2300 km of roads and visit 25 settlements.
In addition, it is planned to connect the largest sanatorium "Akzhetpes" in the region to the heat supply.
National legislation and State gender equality strategy, providing significant support for women and providing for dental equality of opportunity and rights, substantial support from the state in the fields of economy and finance, business and entrepreneurship, as well as the broad representation of women in top political positions, including in places of elective decision-making, health, including maternal and child health, higher education, assistance and special care for women in difficult situations.
within the framework of the action, stationary, mobile posts and mobile raid groups will be created on the ground, where priorities of poaching facts will be determined.
agribusiness 2020 "by 3 billion tenge or by 4.2%.
The conference room was opened by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the People's Republic of China Shakhrat Shakizatovich Nuryshev and the Secretary General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Dmitry Fedorovich Mesentsev with the tradition of cutting red ribbon, the statement said.
in particular, information was provided from the fund of the national archive of Finland on the fate of Kazakhstanis who died or were captured during the hostilities of 1941-1944.
The head of the city noted that Almaty created all the conditions for obtaining high-quality and modern deep education, and successfully implemented large-scale programs in the field of education.
it is these functions that should be a priority in our work. "
as an example, saparbayev cited the Kazakhstan education system "future," which is not in any country in the world.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, opening the Kazakh-Lithuanian business forum, noted the sustainable development of mutually beneficial economic ties between the metropolis and Lithuania.
professionalization of the apparatus of entities of the quasi-public sector, transparency of personnel processes ensure transparency of business processes in this area.	professionalization apparatus quasi-public sector entities , openness hr processes will lead to further discoveries and business processes in this area .	0,78
The main goal of the event is to call on Kazakhstanis to stop, restore and preserve forests, as well as joint landscaping of cities and settlements.	the main purpose of the event is to promote respect for nature , conservation and restoration of forests , and also joint landscaping around the cities and towns .	0,78
During the visit, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan is expected to meet with the heads of a number of states, heads of international organizations and large foreign companies, "the statement said.
the region has developed ferrous metallurgy, the production of food products, motor vehicles, agricultural equipment.
Last December, the Executive Committee of the Federation of Trade Unions decided to open a trade union center in Almaty.
829.9 million tenge is provided for the employment of released workers from the regional budget for 11705 people, "said A. Sadykova.
To date, civil society institutions have been formed in Kazakhstan, which are able to work together in effective and stable cooperation with state bodies, "said A. Shakirov.
Experts are concerned about environmental risks, in particular the effects of climate change, land degradation and deserts, inefficient use of water, production waste and garbage.
According to the results of the work, consultations will be given on specific deadlines and lists of production of local production of automobile trains and measures to support the automotive industry and state regulation, "the report said.
Having considered the speed and quality of work, he set a number of tasks.
in the East Kazakhstan region, 40 of 82 flooded houses were withdrawn.
2015 will be the year of large-scale jubilees for our country, such as the 170th anniversary of the great abai, celebrated in eastern Kazakhstan, along with major jubilees.
he noted that Kazakhstan was making additional efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals on child mortality (mdm4) and to reduce infant mortality.
we felt that the state really cares and supports the health of children.
In addition, the speaker of the Senate introduced the guests to the socio-economic situation in the country, the legislative activities of the parliament.
all participants received valuable gifts.
practical classes are held to increase the experience of personnel in shooting and bring the work of the crew to the level of automation, the report said.
expenses in the field of additional education, housing and communal services and environmental management.
This is happening in Singapore and Hong Kong, "said s.forb.
in November, the salary of his father was increased to 97,500 tenge.
In general, more than 1,500 works from all over Kazakhstan came to the competition.
in the Leningrad region with injuries and treatment in a hospital in the Volgograd region.
then work will begin on shelling the intended target.
Recall that the regional command includes military units located in the established zones, with the exception of the troops of the air defense forces and units of central subordination.
the first years were devoted to solving cultural issues, and after 20 years we have hundreds of national schools and about thirty publications in the national language.
During the meeting, the results of the introduction of the dual education system were discussed, including issues of transferring colleges to the management of large companies within the framework of public-private partnership, the current needs of the labor market with the development of specific proposals for a mechanism for the joint development of the training system with vocational education.
all troops included in this jeep, involved in the combat readiness test, are ready to complete the mission.
M. Yesenbayev also noted a new possibility of using logistics for Thai entrepreneurs, including the Kazakh-Chinese transport and logistics terminal in the port of Lianyungan and container transportation along the Lianyungan-diamond route.
Today, 4095 private business entities are registered in the Burlinsky district, in which more than 6 thousand people are employed.
however, the observer noted that no reverse points were observed.
the candidate completed three assignments.
According to him, the main idea of ​ ​ the action is based on the formation of public consent.
because the participants in the training camp are ready to fulfill their tasks, increase professionalism and provide airborne training for military personnel at the proper level.
the spread in the air of poisonous substances originating from transport and private sectors with autonomous heating, insolubility of ash and accumulation of garbage at construction sites.
N. Kapparov reported to the head of state on the work of the company as part of the transformation program, and also presented an updated strategy for its development, the report said.
fought in the south of France, then was captured.
According to nurgaliyeva, at present it is no secret that a certain part of them does not work at all.
According to him, foreign investors are interested in some projects.
on the basis of these agreements, the parties repeatedly exchanged documents on the history of the two countries.
changes in the world economy are a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-2009.	speaking during the event first deputy director of kazakhstan 's institute for strategic studies ( kaziss ) under the kazakh president leila muzaparova has named cause of changes in world economy .	0,78
Family and children, on the contrary, will be a support, so I want to tell the girls that you, first of all, strive to become a mother, and the rest is on your own, "the deputy said.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for international cooperation in the field of combating drug crime, countering extremism, drug trafficking, as well as the search for criminals.
Chairman of the Council of Veterans of the Internal Affairs Bodies of the Karaganda region m.s.sentayev. and fire service personnel visit retirees' homes and provide private material assistance on the eve of the new year.
during the year undergoes fire, combat, physical, professional training, masters weapons and military equipment.
Speaking about global processes in the world economy, Speaker of the Majilis K. Zhakupov noted the priority directions of the policy of the head of Kazakhstan aimed at overcoming the crisis, which could negatively affect our country.
The 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan will become a reasoned reality of the state, which is able to constantly perceive global events and meet the interests of society. the 20th anniversary of kazakhstan 's constitution will be the axiom of the accomplished state that is able to neutralize timely and adequately the global challenges and ensure the implementation of the public interest .
It should be noted that the law provides for the active participation of young people in state and public events.
when wounded - lost consciousness.
V. Gervasi noted that Romania, as a founding member of the international exhibition bureau, supports the concept and meaning of international exhibitions, highly appreciates the contribution of Kazakhstan to the development of international exhibitions.
During the mission in Iraq, representatives of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan destroyed more than 4 million explosives and cleared 6,718 cubic meters of water.
the company commander is an officer who directly organizes the entire daily life of sergeants and soldiers. the company commander is the officer who directly organizes all the vital functions of sergeants and soldiers .
In the first five-year period of general industrialization, the necessary legislative and institutional reforms were carried out.
competitive vocals (performance of the work of abai kunanbaeva); artistic reading, literary and musical composition.
Everyone will be able to visit the exhibition for up to two months.
During the program, it is planned to open a competitive company in the regional and global markets.
On the second floor of the shopping and entertainment center, megacities congratulated Astana residents on the holiday of nauryz.
The competition is organized as part of a special platform "el.kz" on the basis of the site sailau2015.el.kz.
In this regard, it is necessary to create a judicial academy to train masters, transferring the institute of justice from the academy of public administration to the supreme court, "he said.
According to Kazagro, within the framework of the Agribusiness 2020 Program for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020, a number of measures are being implemented aimed at supporting agribusiness entities.
this step will allow all executive bodies and the population to realize the tasks facing us, "Erimbetov said.
If you look at history, the Czech Republic is close to us, and we know that the potential of this state is very large. the czech republic is close to us and today we know that the czech republic has a great potential .
The Chairman of the Senate, who paid special attention to the visit a.rauabde to Kazakhstan in June last year, noted that he gave an additional impetus to the inter-parliamentary dialogue and expressed the readiness of the Parliament of Kazakhstan to strengthen cooperation with Jordanian colleagues.
The participants of the discussion noted that the EAEU countries have a unique transcontinental geographical position, rich in huge natural and human resources, connecting Europe and Asia, which will increase global competitiveness and allow creating a transport and logistics route in a regional or global sense.
recently, scientific ethics and plagiarism have become a problem. in recent years , there is a problem of scientific ethics and plagiarism .
in addition, he touched upon issues of inclusive education in Kazakhstan.
According to parents, children need to instill a sense of patriotism from youth.
According to local authorities, first of all, mothers with many children and disabled people will be placed here, standing in line in the district center, the report said.
the technical capacity of the plant is 2.5 million cubic meters of ceramic granite per year.
It, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, provides for the study of anti-corruption issues at all levels of education and for various target groups.
At the end of the meeting, M. Sarsembayev expressed confidence in further cooperation in order to exchange experience and information on the development of electoral processes in the two countries.
these are nine balak, skiing, gymnastics, table tennis, futsal, white shooting and pm service weapons, volleyball, swimming, all-around and athletics.	they contribute to improving the physical training of servicemen , develop logic , thinking .	0,78
It is worth noting that at the Astana Economic Forum large contracts and agreements are concluded annually.	each year , due to the aef , the country signs major contracts and agreements .	0,78
pre-financing.	currently the restrictions lifted .	0,78
All these achievements allowed metropolitan students for the eighth time in a row to become the best team-2015. "
At this meeting, the parties exchanged views on the current state and future of bilateral relations, including in the trade, economic and tourism spheres.
optimization of permission obtaining.
arms, ammunition and military equipment of Kazakhstan units arrived on nine aircraft flights of military transport aviation of Kazakhstan.
The parties noted that the conclusion of an agreement between the two countries on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases, which is undergoing the extreme stage of preparation for signing, will give a special impetus to the development of legal cooperation between Kazakhstan and the United States.
The volume index for the communications industry in January 2015 amounted to 110.8%.
According to the CEC of Kazakhstan, in East Kazakhstan region 93.55% of voters included in the electoral list filled out ballots.
3 times more than last year.
The total growth of industrial industry was 0.6%, mining - 1.1%, manufacturing - 0.5%. industrial production increased by 0.6 % , the mining industry increased by 1.1 % , manufacturing - by 0 , 5 % .
in the future, we will cover other industries, "said the head of the holding.
we intend to form an economy that will not depend on the available natural resources in the country.
in accordance with the law, for citizens living away from district centers, specialists of white and mobile population service centers "kazpost" organize the reception of documents for the appointment of benefits.
in addition, we are considering the issue of financing the purchase of expensive tools and feed for the successful development of the business, "he added.
Like other people, I see measures to celebrate the assembly of people of Kazakhstan, and I think that this is our united future. for me celebration of apk 20th anniversary is the future of our unity and ideology , the future of international friendship .
in his opinion, a peaceful and happy life, positive well-being of citizens is the result of the wise and far-sighted policy of the president of the country.
quality of domestic goods, their details and other materials and types of services.
a distinctive feature of this system is the safe opening of the parachute, landing, ease of parachute possession in the air, landing range from the landing point to the ground and the possibility of landing on a small site.
Before the beginning of summer, convenient roads will be built here, the beach area will be improved, all convenient conditions for entertainment and for children will be created, the report says.
After the adoption of the state concept of the transition to a green economy, the state is tasked with bringing up to 50% of alternative and renewable energy sources in the country's total energy balance by 2050.
Within the framework of the Kazakhfilm film studio, studios of animated and artistic genres should be opened.
a council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was initiated on this issue.
At the meeting of the modernization commission, we want to talk about finding and finding "long" inexpensive finances and stable tax legislation, "said N. Radostovets.
On May 8, protocols were signed.
To date, the technology of storing moisture on an area of ​ ​ 101.9 thousand hectares has been applied.
a significant part of the economy, which forms the gross domestic product, today has failed.
During the meeting, the international experience of studying the perception of corruption by foreign experts of the Nazarbayev University Higher School of Public Policy and reports of transparency of the Internet and the bukial banter on issues of confidence and quality in the world-famous corruption perception indices were presented.
among the winners is a social project "under a single shanyrak" in strengthening and developing the interethnic harmony of the city of Aktau, the traditional city open futsal championship in strengthening the health of citizens and attracting them to sports, and was also awarded a special diploma for the introduction of an automated e-region management system.
As the head of state noted, it is necessary to reduce the failed public service.
Based on the results of the meeting, a recommendation was presented on more comprehensive support of the family for a favorable and safe environment for the child, improving the quality of life of the child and the family with a minor child.
Within the framework of the visit Abdikalikova visited objects of education, health care, culture, met with representatives of ethnocultural associations and women's community of the region.
Of the 16,188 people, 14 thousand 631 returned home, the rest live in the homes of relatives. 14,631 people have returned to their homes , others live with relatives .
at the meeting of the commission R. Zhoshybaev.
got a lot of experience, shared it.
It should be noted that Kha demonstrates the international authority of Kazakhstan and represents Kazakhstan as a country that resolves interethnic disputes.
in this context, this may indicate a doubles ranking published earlier this year.
The initiative aimed at stability and dynamic development was supported by the head of state and the people of Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
For all these years, thanks to your modest policy, independent Kazakhstan has implemented large-scale reforms in all areas, achieved sustainable economic growth, conducts a fair social policy and progressive democratization of society, the authors note.
From the point of view of entrepreneurs, it is necessary to provide its food market with high-quality agricultural products, "said M. Nksikbaev.
Vice President of the National Engineering Academy told the Kazakh public that it was during this period that she should be together, and only then she will be able to overcome all the difficulties.
"Our visionary policy in domestic and foreign policy begins with the wisdom of our people.
the agreement provides for the settlement of mutual cooperation in the event of natural or man-made emergencies on the Caspian Sea.
the bill is aimed at reforming the pension provision for members of armed groups. the bill aims to reform pensions of law enforcement officers .
Providing services that are unusual to the State in a competitive environment and to self-regulatory organizations.
there are also bills on self-regulation, agricultural cooperation, public-private partnership, on precious metals and precious stones.
x-c. He highly appreciated the socio-economic reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan and expressed confidence that the development strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" necessarily implements the goals and goals set by the state.
Recall that a single national test will be held from June 2 to 15, 2015.
in addition, with the help of the application, users can pay utilities, taxes, fines, duties, communication services and fill out bills in a residential construction bank.
According to distributed information, the event will allow each of the citizens gathered by him to present wartime, the vital activities of their population.
The certificate of honor of the Republic of Kazakhstan was awarded to the chief consultant.
In the future, the plant plans to export its products to the CIS countries.
it was also necessary to work on wage growth, especially in rural areas.
a feature of this facility is that the contractors used the method of horizontal drilling of the Ural River under the roads when laying the gas pipeline.
in Atay, the head of the region examined a feed workshop for the development of impurities with computer control.
most often they related to education abroad, the economic situation and countering the global crisis.
San Marino representatives expressed interest in expanding the legal framework between the two States, and the parties agreed to consider developing appropriate proposals in the near future.
Correctional institutions operating around the clock are funded entirely by the local budget.
Anki Brokers expressed gratitude for the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands and expressed readiness to take part in bilateral and comprehensive formats.
as military observers for the peacekeeping mission, officers of the Kazakhstan battalion of Kazbat peacekeepers, baktiyar akbalayev and muskapirs from iron, were sent to this country.
the new museum presents rare documents and objects collected by police officers. the new museum presents rare documents and objects collected by the police .
Currently, the training center has trained more than 90 military personnel of the air defense forces in various specialties of unit commanders, diesel engineers, electrical installers, radar station operators, anti-aircraft missile and radio engineering troops.
According to the Chamber, the agreement provides for the adoption of measures to improve the current legislation in the field of public procurement for the needs of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the enlarged meeting, the head of the region. Bozumbayev, together with the Department for the Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of the Trade and Tourism Management "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020," continue to work on programs and, together with the Department of Agriculture of the region, akims of cities and districts, carry out measures to ensure stability of prices for food products on the domestic market, primarily socially significant.
hosting is a service for providing computing power for storing information on a server permanently located on the network.
fought in Belarus, liberated orsha, gomel, vitebsk.
At the same time, the parties noted that cooperation between the two countries is developing on the basis of mutual understanding and support.
According to him, the country should have special standards encoding Kazakh agricultural producers.
much work had been done to establish friendly relations with other States.
on behalf of the Croatian people and on his own behalf, congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on a convincing victory in the presidential election.
The total volume of the museum expanded, a major overhaul was carried out, the fund was replenished with new exhibits.
thanks to joint efforts, a temporary dam was raised by 23,138 meters, 484,878 cubic meters of water were pumped out, 97,217 bags were laid, "continued R. imankulov.
It is necessary to strengthen the role of the public council at akimats and state bodies.	state bodies will report regularly to the population ,  nursultan nazarbayev said .
all this is done as part of the gasification of our state, "said the deputy minister.
these are not simple words.
According to representatives of the Governor's Office of the city, the first festival of creative youth "in the rhythm of child tolerance" is the popularization of culture through children's creativity, the identification of talented performers in Kazakhstan, their support, the full use of the creative potential of youth.
2015-2016 As for the preparation for the next autumn-winter period, in order to ensure the stable operation of the city's heating networks at the end of the transenergo heating season, together with the white Aktobe Zheo, on May 14-15 of this year, "vulnerable places" will be identified, and then hydraulic tests will be carried out to eliminate them.
In turn, the Ambassador spoke about the achievements of Kazakhstan in the political, economic and social spheres since independence, and also familiarized the interlocutor with the main directions of the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.
today we are gathered for eternal fire - a sacred place on the eve of Great Victory Day and Defender of the Fatherland Day. today we have gathered for a special occasion in a sacred place - at the eternal flame on the eve of victory day and the day of defender of the fatherland .
after graduating from the course, went to the front.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War were solemnly greeted on the platform.
it will allow us to create new jobs, to ensure the production of the most necessary products.
the document is a promising plan of the UN activities in Kazakhstan based on national priorities and the goal of supporting the programs and reforms implemented in the country.
In addition, seminars-trainings, consultations on social, legal, medical, public services, business and agriculture were held.
a number of those proposals were reflected in the Code of Civil Procedure recently submitted to Parliament.
According to him, such indicators are a record for Kazakhstanis.
special rank of Major General of Police:
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meeting, Prince Liechtenstein was invited to take part in the events of 2017-2018. A non-permanent member of the UN Security Council was entrusted with a personal message from the head of state to support the application of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
moreover, electronic interaction at the level of foreign trade and above customs and national, including between other state bodies, by participants requires further improvement of methods, transitions and means of information security.	transfer to interaction between participants of the foreign economic policy and the customs and other public bodies including supranational level primarily in e format will need further improvement of information security methods .	0,78
According to the Department of Statistics of Astana, the total number of students was 28,822, including 14,258 people or 49.5% of women.	according to the department of statistics of the capital , the total number of students was 28 822 people , 14,258 people or 49.5 % of them are women .	0,78
As part of the event, shows of the history of the country and the deportation of peoples to Kazakhstan, the participation of Kazakhstanis in the Great Patriotic War and the development of virgin lands were organized.	the event shows the pages of the history of our country - the deportation of people in kazakhstan , kazakhstani participation in world war ii , the development of virgin lands .	0,78
On the front side (obverse) of the commemorative coin "Ayman shaken" in the central part, the emblem of the Republic of Kazakhstan is depicted on the ornament.
at the solemn meeting, representatives of the parliaments of the CIS member states united parts of the bonfires in a continuous bonfire of the Commonwealth and delivered to the St. Petersburg branch of the State Museum of History - "a monument to the heroic defenders of Leningrad."
factory for the production of modern electric locomotives (Kazakh-French-Russian)
Recep Erdogan also thanked the head of state for the warm welcome and hospitality during his recent visit to Kazakhstan.
The leadership of this exercise assessed the equipment of the Kazakh military, mobility in a distant area, a high level of preparation for the implementation of targets.
In 2011, he intends to open a sewing workshop as part of the 2020 Employment Roadmap program.
according to the overall rating of the course of service, military units were determined that showed a significant result in military competitions. according to the rating of employment activity , the military units have been defined which have achieved significant results in the fighting competition .
a comparative analysis of legislation and law enforcement practices in the field of protecting the rights of victims of trafficking in persons in accordance with the norms of international treaties approved in the report, an assessment of the activities of competent state bodies, in accordance with the norms of the constitution and international standards, concrete and effective steps were noted to further improve the mechanisms for protecting labor and cultural rights, the report said.
the entrepreneur will take only 1 day to open the enterprise. the opening of the company takes an entrepreneur only one day .
- Termination of activities of individual entrepreneurs;
all this is not easy.
In total, more than 43,500 student-athletes from 1 country took part in the last universiade.
in the field of tourism and transport construction, our specialists have a lot of skills.
execution of the order of the head of State that new technologies, new innovative methods and trilingual education should be used in preschool institutions.
As the expertise shows, cooperation has great prospects for cooperation with a large number of imported products, and instead of imported products, joint pharmaceutical production can be opened.
a portable house covered with felt was widely used in Turkic and Mongolian nomads.
The Kazakh Research Institute of Energy named after Academician Shunkin is mainly engaged in research in the field of electricity and marketing, electricity consumption, the development of electric loads and power plants, the balance of power of electric networks and the energy audit of enterprises.
the newly elected head Nursultan Nazarbayev takes the oath to the Kazakh people.
A significant part of the activity volume (54.7% of the total activity volume) was rendered services of organizations of basic and general education on 27611.7 million tenge, preschool organizations on 7659.3 million tenge (15.2%), higher education organizations - 6857.2 million tenge (13.6%), technical and secondary vocational education organizations - 4874.6 million tenge (9.7%), sports education organizations - 1177.4 million tenge (2.3%).
we will move and develop only in this way.
The restoration of such buildings that have witnessed the Kazakh Khanate is a matter that does not take time. "
According to the Governor's Office, a preliminary draft was approved at the council meeting.
In two years, about 30 units of equipment for crops were purchased.
The transition of company offices to the region will give an additional impetus to development, as well as provide great social support to residents of the region.
As the President noted, "in a word, we have gained experience in the crisis of 2007-2009.
we decided to switch to a 12-year education taking into account external factors. we made proposals , taking into account the external facts to put on hold the transition to the 12-year education .
Participation in the election of the head of state is the duty of every citizen. participating in the presidential elections is the duty of every citizen .
in particular, most representatives of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan showed results significantly higher than the approved standard. it is worth noting that the representatives of the ministry of defense of kazakhstan for the most part made with results far exceeding the established standards .
This year in Pavlodar, together with the World Bank, it is planned to begin construction of a hazardous waste disposal plant. this year it is planned to build a plant for the hazardous waste destruction together with the world bank in pavlodar .
now they will remember war veterans and home front workers.
the second place was taken by students of France, the third - Romanian participants.
Thanks to our leader, Kazakhstan has become a country of great opportunities and a great future.
Servicemen of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan will be marked at the parade.
Chairman of the Committee on Agrarian Issues, Environmental Management and Rural Development Sergey Carpenter in his speech drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan's active entry into the world economy, increasing its competitiveness, as well as ensuring food security of the country, is significantly dependent on the effective use of land resources.
I. During the meeting of the First Deputy Chairman of the Seimas Vidas Gedvilas, special attention was paid to the advisability of strengthening the inter-parliamentary dialogue, which is an important tool for promoting mutual partnership.
Over three months, 4,115 devices have been transferred, of which more than 500 have been invited to help to date.	that is , the people who confirm and express their gratitude .	0,78
It is noted that the Nazarbayev Intellectual School has been opened in the physical and mathematical direction.	it should be noted nazarbayev intellectual school of physics and mathematics opened its doors .	0,78
According to information, the exhibition in Omsk has become a platform for exchanging views with fellow artists, compatriots.	according to the information , the exhibition has become a place to exchange ideas and communicate with fellow artists , compatriots living in omsk .	0,78
we live in times of peace and harmony.	we live in peace and harmony , one big family , chairman of eca yelena dmitriyeva said .	0,78
following the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that as part of the execution of the instructions of the head of state, all interested parties should strictly comply with the terms of the memoranda. "
To ensure Kazakhstan's demand for electricity, we quickly implement projects and update energy consumption indicators at least once every two years.
In turn, the vice-president of the South Ural Chamber of Commerce and Industry Igor Aristov noted that Russia is connected by economic and historical relations, including the Chelyabinsk region with Kazakhstan.
47.3% of investments into fixed capital are directed to acquisition of machines, devices, devices and tools.
someone does not have enough equipment, someone found problems in the construction work.
We hope that the measures of the Government of Kazakhstan, that is, 100 steps, will help in this direction. created by the government of the republic of kazakhstan measures will be able to help .
The Great Patriotic War put an end to the story that claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent people.
Allow me to congratulate you, dear veterans, on the upcoming holiday of victory. i would congratulate you , dear veterans on the upcoming victory day !
chanakalle was founded in the 15th century and was an Ottoman fortress.
K. Asylov emphasized that thanks to Elbasa Nazarbayev's visionary and wise policy, Kazakhstan is actively working in the cultural and social space.
K. Tokayev drew the attention of the bureau members to improving the quality of the Senate by strictly implementing the provisions of the legislation and regulations.
On election day, the request for public opinion is prohibited at the polling station or polling station (article 28, paragraph 9, of the constitutional law).
Also, the winner of the republican Olympiad was a team of schoolchildren in Almaty.
In addition, schoolchildren saw special videos about the safety and importance of civil defense.
At the event, the head of the Central Housing Complex in Kyzylorda region, Murat Karymsakov, noted the importance of signing this memorandum, told entrepreneurs about the activities of the newly created agency, and also gave an explanation of the main directions of the state anti-corruption policy enshrined in the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025.
Friendly and trusting relations between the presidents of Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin give impetus to further strengthening of our strategic and allied partnership, - said K. Tokayev.
Within a short period of time, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, measures will be taken to implement this goal.
The head of the region advised to reduce the construction time.
our exhibition depicts the beauty, face, tenderness of a woman.
and others expressed gratitude to Nursultan Nazarbayev for his high appreciation of his activities and expressed hope that cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union will expand and expand.
he also noted that mutual understanding and cooperation had developed between the Catholic Church and the local body.
The American diplomat agreed with Tokayev's opinion on the importance of inter-parliamentary exchanges and noted that he was making efforts in this direction.
The local content requirements specified in the agreements with subsoil users approved before January 1, 2015 will be valid until 2023, the ministry representative added.
the system operates around the clock, veterans have the opportunity to contact and receive assistance at any time.
It will be attended by the head of the economic research department of the Institute of Eurasian Integration Vladimir Telnov, the leader of the nation - the head of the strategic research and forecasting service of the library of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mikhail mironenko.
the jury included more than 150 cultural and art figures.
Head of the peasant farm in the village of Mambet, Almaty region, N. Bekesheva, said that her family fully approves the activities of the head of state and expressed hope for participation in the elections.
every hour all the information about the voting in the tent camp came here.
The plans include the state of further expansion of the event: geographical expansion and presentation of methodological projects in accordance with the requirements of the dog market.
these macroeconomic indicators indicate a positive result of the implementation of the Agribusiness 2020 program, adopted in 2013.
we are trusted, so we take part in overcoming them.
in addition, the award list includes 12 home front workers, including anikina Maria Vasilievna.
the document reflects the concept of a new attitude towards investors and they are based on positions that are the best at the international level.
Since 2010, 69 of 74 permits issued by state fire service bodies have been reduced.
the working group is developing proposals aimed at ensuring the operation of a single union service market for eurozone member countries. the working group will prepare proposals aimed at ensuring the operation of a single union services market for member states .
What areas are implemented within the project?
first of all, I would like to note the large voter turnout for the vote. first of all , i would like to note high voter turnout .
the best servicemen in the armed forces of Kazakhstan are gathered here.
now the group of inspections with small risks has decreased, and higher - vice versa.
at the same time, production of coal and combined iron ores decreased.
water tower.
The head of the city noted that the new year is of special importance in the life of every person, especially children.
special attention is paid to the development of the road network of the regional center.
Also this year, the company purchased a hemogenizer for oil, "the report said.
melodies and performances excited veterans, reminded of youth and friends who found themselves on the battlefield in wartime, and were involuntary.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstan should perform all tasks.
in addition, according to him, the first rule for awarding an international scholarship "future" in each category was canceled.
We are now faced with the issue of establishing a single focal point for the management of special economic zones.	at the moment ,  sez " jsc is a management company , which manages 17 existing and newly established special economic zones in russia .
He emphasized that the message of the head of state "bright path - path to the future" is a response to this threat.
Representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission, customs service and business community took part in the preparation of the document.
I believe it is right to allow the government to continue to work so as not to waste time understanding the circumstances of the case.
The first day of the gathering with the participation of servicemen of all parts of the air forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan opened with commander's sorties.
Recall, the head of state in his message to the people "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state" noted that the social responsibility of private business, non-governmental and charitable organizations, individuals should be reflected in the field of education.
we have culture and traditions, we are interested in its development.
In turn, in the letters, members of the team of Agrofirma Rodina LLP in Akmola region noted that in the context of the global economic crisis and the escalation of geopolitical instability in the world, Kazakhstan needs a powerful and principled leader.
During the working trip to Semey akim of the region Danial Akhmetov met with the heads of agro portal LLP.
and when the Great Patriotic War began, he was only 8 years old.
I am glad that young talents have every opportunity to improve their art, "said Oleg Halov, vice president of technical affairs at Kazkhrom.
for example, during the discussion, the people misunderstood the concept of multifaceted. for example , such a thing as multiculturalism is perceived in a negative context .
The complex includes a unique diagnostic unit and a department of nuclear medicine.
The head of the limited liability partnership, Erball Shakenov, introduced children to the production and technological processes of making ceramic bricks and spoke about the achievements of the plant.
The National Bank prepared 207,923 anniversary medals, local executive bodies began to present them. national bank made 207,923 commemorative medals and local executive bodies have already started their awarding .
The alley of veterans symbolizes peace and unity, prosperity.
Director General of Itar-Tass raa s.mihailov expressed confidence that the rich and comprehensive experience, professionalism and managerial skills of Nursultan Nazarbayev will be the key to bringing to life new ideas and effective solutions aimed at the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan.
According to the regional department of internal affairs, there are 768 organizations in the non-governmental sector of the Kostanay region, of which 220 work in rural regions.
Over the past 5 years, 68 ground and underground pedestrian crossings have been built in Almaty, another 40 are planned to be built next year, a pedestrian program will be completed, which we have been implementing for 3 years, he said.
all production plants are heated by their furnaces.
As the head of the partnership noted, the sown area of ​ ​ Abay LLP is more than 11 thousand hectares.
According to akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov, the signed memoranda help systematize priority areas of joint actions with ministries providing services in the social sphere.
Order of Glory of the 2nd degree "Deputy Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Major General Comrade Mukhtarov, as well as commander of the regional command" east "Major General M. Bektanov," the statement said.
The Ministry has established and operates a commission to combat corruption and respect the ethics of the civil servant.
among the on-duty - military personnel-internationalists, former pupils of orphanages, state employees, owners of emergency houses.
The Chief of Staff of the CIS Observer Mission expressed interest in receiving information from the main supervisory authority on the facts of the application of the electoral law and its possible violations.
the recommended amount of forest construction is 1.5 million cubic meters.
The head of state stressed that wind, solar electricity should be the most important catalyst for the development of an innovative economy. the president noted that the energy of the sun and wind should be a key catalyst for the development of innovative economy .
Following the talks, the minutes of the 11th meeting of the Kazakh-Romanian intergovernmental commission were signed.
In order to increase trade turnover, the requirements for trade objects in the foreign market have changed, "he said.
at the second stage they develop their business plans and learn them in detail.
hosting is a service for providing computing power for storing information on a server permanently located on the network.
however, there have been changes.
there are plans for planting such seedlings for the current year.
in particular, entrepreneurs are provided with qualified advice in such sectors as marketing, legislation and customs clearance measures, accounting activities.
The film, prepared for the 70th anniversary of the Victory, is called "fate."
in terms of land, Kazakhstan is one of the ten largest states in the world, and the level of land security per capita ranks third in the world after Australia and Canada.
the company's poultry farms today employ 550 people, while the enterprise employs more than 60 farms that supply various types of feed/wheat, soybeans, sunflower, etc.
we have repeatedly talked about customs administration, and we do not have much to do on this issue.
According to the Mayor's Office, last year the course to increase the number of environmentally friendly cars continued.
these areas ensure that our countries grow their religion. these areas provide a significant share of gdp .
Thanks to the support of the world and republican federations of Togyzkumalak sports, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, akimats of the regions, the number of people employed in this game exceeded 100 thousand people.
The peacekeeping activities of Kazakhstan are carried out by sending officers serving in the armed forces of Kazakhstan to Haiti, Côte d'Ivoire, Liberia and Western Sahara as observers of peacekeeping missions.
Through the memorandum, we will comprehensively fight corruption, "said Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov.
this will give an additional impetus, "concluded the Vice Minister of National Culture of the Republic Timur Zhaksylykov.
The leaders of Kazakhstan and Russia discussed the current situation in Ukraine, noting that in general it was possible to stop the shelling in the territory of the conflict.
As part of the program, a list of the best companies wishing to participate in it within 2 months was compiled. there was a selection among domestic producers participating in the program .
today, new tasks for the formation of a new generation are being developed in this direction, which will be approved at a large summit in New York, "said H. Clark.
Y. Ashkbayev spoke about the proposed 5 institutional reforms aimed at implementing economic programs and providing public services, diversifying industrialization and economic growth, developing a united future nation, forming an open, public, accountable state based on the rule of law.
Today, Kazakhstan is widely represented throughout the world, and not only on the territory of the former Soviet Union.
Over the 20 years of its existence, the "shapagat" mbso provided about 500 children with disabilities of various medical, psychological and methodological assistance.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, disabled people, children of orphanages and orphans, citizens from places of imprisonment, citizens over 50 years old, young people under 29 years old took part in the fair.
its upper level is 2600 m ³/s.
in particular, members of the government discussed measures to improve the effectiveness of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program.
The sign of remembrance of the people was generously greeted by the chairman of the Combat Brotherhood public association, the director of the sports and recreation complex with the Tleugerian macanal, the owner of the kickboxing world cup.
the section contains interesting data on primary party organizations, as well as information messages related to their activities.
47 out of 65 polling stations abroad continue voting, "the secretary said.
It is worth noting that "kazsat-3" works normally, and the first with its services Kazakhstan telecom operators used "astel" and "2daytelecom."
According to the speaker, the new economic policy of the President of Kazakhstan "nұrly zhol," as well as a favorable investment climate, open up new opportunities for strengthening cooperation.
increased mechanisms for the selection of candidates for the post of judge and tightening of qualification requirements.
within "Week of the Kazakh culture" in Turkey of the academic orchestra of the Kazakh national tools of Tattimbet in the largest concert halls of the cities of Astana and Almaty, the Karaganda concert association of K. Bayzhanov and also the people's artist of the USSR, the owner of the state award of the USSR and an award of the Kazakh SSR of name K. concerts of the chevalier of the order Lenin and a labor Red Banner, the famous owner of a coloratura soprano are held.
The task was entrusted with attracting domestic producers to the construction of expo facilities in the regions.
in this regard, the Almaty region should be the basis for all other regions.
In accordance with the plan of the exercises, units of military contingents were regrouped by military transport aircraft of aviation, foot trips were made with standard weapons, equipment and ammunition of the reserve.
The hotline service is continuing.
He noted that since the beginning of the Balapan program, the coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years has increased by 11.6%.
Member of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, People's Artist of the USSR and.
At the same time, 21 projects were put into operation, 17 are under construction and another 12 are under design and execution of permits.
advanced training course in the specialty of an electric gas welder was held with the participation of a specialist from Europe.
This is a significant day in our lives, because today we are on a par with our defenders, "the military serviceman shared his impressions.
Also, the governor of the Kursk region, the acting president of the "International Assembly of Capitals and Large Cities," the head of the city of Orenburg, y.misheryakov, deputy of the federal assembly of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, general b.gromov, Russian statesman p.b. and a resident of Novosibirsk n.p.r.
Akim of Aktobe region archimedes of muhambetov congratulated the guests on the 70th anniversary of victory and defender of the Fatherland, and also presented state awards to 9 veterans.
barley in the capital fell by 17% from 121 to 101 tenge/kg.
Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbayev took part in the first organizational meeting of the Interstate Anti-Corruption Council in Minsk.
Special attention is paid here to the main priority areas of international activities and unions for the development of trade and economic ties with key partners in the medium term, "K. Massimov said.
In addition, he noted the practice of introducing electronic procedures of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Recall that the spring draft campaign began in April.
I think that the people heard the right words from the mouth of the head of state. kazakhstani people grasped the essential of the president 's speech .
at the end of this period, if at least 6 months before the expiration of the initial term of the agreement, neither party notifies the other in writing of its intention to terminate it, the protocol is automatically extended for five years, that is, until January 1, 2024. at the end of this period , it is automatically extended for five years if neither party notifies the other party not less than six months before the termination of the initial term of its intention to terminate it , that is , until january 1 , 2024 .
Recall that the project "Happy Family" is aimed at strengthening spirituality by popularizing the institution of family, morality, family values.
The President also stressed that in recent years, favorable conditions have been created in Kazakhstan to support domestic entrepreneurship and attract investment.
December of this year proved 23-year relations between Kazakhstan and the American states.
milking is not only a gold sewing technique, it is a special palsaf.
the enterprise produces concrete foundation blocks, foundation slabs, gates of production rings, commercial concrete, road pits, etc.
Given the decrease in the water level in the upper reaches of the Nura River and the fixation of the rise in the Akmola region, most of the emergency rescue and urgent work will be carried out in the settlements of the Akmola region, "said A. Sovetov.
Therefore, kindergartens are scarce, and this issue is greatly aggravated in the capital and Almaty.
in addition, a number of new projects are planned to achieve the goals and objectives.
This year, the country is preparing for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
The head of state examined museum exhibitions, and also held a meeting with classmates.
military musicians perform about thirty popular melodies of Soviet and Kazakhstani composers, and pilots as part of private and aerobatic groups demonstrate their skill by creating top aerobatic painting.
In the second half of the year, it is planned to implement a number of relevant projects.
in addition, negotiations are underway with Russia, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan.
in the program, phased entry into the eida, "said M. Abylkasymova.
residents of the city always adhere to a progressive and active civic position.
through the application, you will find all the information about yourself, order the necessary help and receive a push or SMS message if it is necessary to replace a certain document, "said Ruslan Engsebayev, Chairman of the Board of National Information Technologies JSC.
the number of science workers from 2009 thousand in 15 to 2014 thousand in 25.8.
however, the state did not manage to purchase these terminals on time.
Members of the commission decided to join efforts in the preparation of the bill "On infertility" based on international experience in the field of infertility.
further in the Italian camp.
upon arrival of military personnel to a conditional place, it is necessary to deploy a field camp necessary to provide military personnel: a control post, a medical center, a field canteen, a cultural and leisure center, etc., "the report said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the nuclear threat is one of the most serious problems of our time.
rescuers thanked Grigory Pavlovich for the victory and handed him a gift on the upcoming holiday.
According to the Governor of the region of baktykozha izmukhambetov, the peculiarity of the poultry farm is to get high-quality products.
In addition, during the trip, students received information about the history of the plant and the main stages of its development.
everyone will know through comparison.	everything is relative .	0,79
Of the 60 planned houses, 20 have already received gas.	already 20 of the 60 planned homes have natural gas .	0,79
the more active the participation of the people, the stronger the unity of our country, the stronger the confidence in the future.	the more voters will participate in the elections , the more convincing we will prove our unity , harmony and , most importantly , confidence in the future of our country to the whole world .	0,79
When Abdrahman Dautbayev entered the war, he was under the age of 18.	abdyrakhmanov bektaevich was 18 years old when he was drafted to war from semey .	0,79
The participants of the meeting informed the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan about the preparations for the celebration of the Victory Anniversary.	following the meeting , kazakh secretary of state a. abdykalikova gave a number of instructions on the preparation for the celebration to public authorities .	0,79
As the hero of the war noted, he fought for 3 months, for 1 month he participated in the Japanese war.	i graduated from pedagogical institute , for forty years i worked as a director of the school ,  he added .
the conference is attended by professors and researchers of the Academy of Public Administration, the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In the future, we plan to sell products to Russia, "said the head of the complex.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the development of cycling on the Asian continent, and also agreed on close cooperation in the field of training professional sports personnel, holding joint tournaments and the development of mass cycling.
At the installation plant, work is carried out on the production of gold from raw materials in five stages: primary alloy, laboratory examination, silver electrolysis workshop, gold electrolysis workshop, foundry and purification workshop.
In 2014, 15,357 people applied to the employment authorities of the Mangistau region.
now we need to make efforts to increase the volumes that will be implemented in these and other areas, "said V. Nauduzhas.
Today, as part of the project "Nұr Otan - a happy family," a meeting was held with a large family, guardians, foster carers, who took on orphans and children left without parental care.
However, according to him, a large number of such voters testify to the growth of the political culture of citizens.
we plan to hold a creative festival between city state bodies and large collective production enterprises. in particular , we plan to hold a large festival of creativity among the employees of government agencies and urban groups of large industrial enterprises .
D.Zuma sent sincere congratulations on behalf of the South African Government and people.
16 of them got the opportunity to perform at the final gala concert.
this will be facilitated by the law on access to public information, which will be prepared in the near future, "the head of state said.
the average monthly salary really amounted to 155,140 tenge.
Thus, the law "On Administrative Offenses" will include the question of liability for disseminating unconfirmed information that allows exemption from special, anti-dumping, compensatory contributions.
in these works, the index of the working area should go to the front with an excess of the silt areas.
Concerned government bodies and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, with the participation of the Prosecutor General's Office, have developed draft indicators of the impact of the moratorium
We create all the necessary conditions for the life of our children to be happy and for them to learn without problems.
According to the ministry, the purpose of signing this document is to support socially vulnerable segments of the population.
In addition, the head of state noted that it simplifies the procedure for obtaining a building permit.
a mobile application will appear in the near future, which will provide forum participants with access not only to the court of ignorance and consent, but also to the capital, "said A. Ergaliev.
we understand the relevance and importance of people's reforms.
In addition, according to him, 6 thousand 296 personnel and 1 thousand 682 pieces of equipment, 199 water supply vehicles and 97 swimming devices are currently involved in flood measures.
As of March 4, Zhambyl and Aktobe regions showed particular interest, where 11 and 10 communal facilities were sold, respectively.	according to him , among the buyers are 80 individuals and 70 entities , two non-residents and two individual entrepreneurs .	0,79
According to statistics, more than three thousand people took part in the bike ride.	according to the information , a bike ride was attended by more than three thousand people , and as the statistics shows , the number of participants increases every time .	0,79
in addition, Astana Frutz is planned to begin its work on growing apple seedlings with innovative technology.
Currently, the housing conditions of veterans and disabled World War II have been checked, and those who worked during the war have not been ignored.
losses on Transenergo's white heat networks were reduced from 18.67% to 18.62%.
It is worth noting that if the committee for the preparation of Expo 2017 is interested in the project, the author can be given a grant for its implementation at the level of $1000.
The participants of the round table spoke about the need to form a mechanism for responsible research in Kazakhstan, the creation of a collegial body at the national level - a council for the ethics of science, and the training of specialists in the ethics of science.
Kazakhstan's openness to proposals and comments.
the expansion of the monetary base was mainly facilitated by an increase in net international reserves.
The head of state stressed that the current negative phenomena in the international economy are the result of the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-2009.
The report on the most pressing issues of international security and measures to combat the threats of member states of the agreement was compiled by the Secretary General of the organization Nikolai Bordyuk.
Kazakhstan is actively assisting Ukraine in the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster.
Thanks to this, more than 3225 thousand students of 280 enterprises, 34% of colleges (21 of the total number of organizations of technical and vocational education) and higher courses studying in technical, technological and agricultural specialties are currently covered by the dual education system.
All those awarded are representatives of various spheres, but they have a common goal - to serve their profession, city, country, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
state prizes are awarded for significant feats shown in military service, high performance in combat training.
Within five years, the production of new products of building materials, previously absent in Kazakhstan, was established in the country.
Heads of state education departments of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the party "Nurotan," more than 1000 specialists of psychologists and teachers of the Institute of Family Education, deputy directors for educational work, class leaders, school medical workers, school psychologists and parents of students of 11th grades were invited to the conference.
according to him, the quality and volume of grain depends on sowing and harvesting.
During the meeting, the state of personnel work and measures taken to increase its effectiveness were discussed.
military personnel visited the houses of veterans who could not come to the garrison house of officers.
State bodies pay special attention to improving the legal culture of the population and cooperation with civil society.
In general, as part of the work to protect the rights of entrepreneurs, the chamber considered about 300 appeals of business entities in connection with law issues, 230 of them related to protection, 100 issues were resolved in favor of the applicants.
The akims report on the implementation of state programs in the regions headed by them, will talk about the results of socio-economic development for 2014, as well as at the reporting meetings they will discuss the goals and objectives of priority areas of state bodies and promising plans.
According to the Minister of Energy, Kazakhstan pays great attention to the adoption of new technologies in the oil and gas sector.
the state hopes that support for the agricultural sector will be a return.
a similar agreement was concluded with the Chinese Academy of Modern International Relations.
thus, about 4,000 soldiers from all regions of Kazakhstan were given the full opportunity to participate in the elections and express their civic position, despite the fact that they are away from the places of permanent residence and the location of military units.
of medals, the badge awarded to him for work is expensive.
Our cooperation initiatives, which we are considering in the framework of memoranda, will adequately address the existing economic difficulties.
In accordance with the conclusion, during the consideration of the bill, a number of proposals were proposed and adopted to bring its norms into line with other legislative acts.
As a result of last year, a positive demographic situation has developed in the region, the birth rate of the population is growing, natural population growth is increasing, and the overall mortality rate is significantly decreasing.
Production in the manufacturing industry increased 1.9 times and at the end of the year amounted to 137.7 billion tenge, the press service of the region reports.
In this regard, Taldykorgan tailors began tailoring for veterans, "the report said.
The official journal of the International Weightlifting Federation "Weightlifting World" according to the results of online voting among fans identified the best weightlifters in the world among men and women.
among them are the non-Nagay, deep, Zyryanovsky, Katon-pine, coconut and Shemonaikhinsky regions.
The idea of ​ ​ unification within the framework of the Kazallan was previously supported by students of American, Korean and some European educational institutions who signed the declaration on joining it.
at the same time, work continues on such main areas as the development of free trade, ensuring the unhindered movement of capital and labor resources, mutual investment, and the creation of joint ventures.
The deputies of the Republic of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the latest advanced technologies in the field of farming, "the report said.
Within the framework of the military-patriotic forum, it is planned to create an exhibition platform and present to the head of state developments within the framework of military-patriotic topics, "said M. Talasov.
Today, our country is on the verge of a new stage of development, and it is important to effectively implement the 5 institutional reforms of which you mentioned the importance.
Over the year, 60 thousand 65 schoolchildren from 6 states took part in the forum, including from 500 regions of the Russian Federation.
During the consideration of the approval of the city management scheme in accordance with Government Decree No. 1397 of December 29, 2014, 3 administrations were included in the basic structure of the local executive body of Almaty - the Department of State Architectural and Construction Control, the Department of Land Use Control and the Department of Agriculture.
Also, in the framework of improving the legal culture of citizens in order to form "zero tolerance" in society, together with the judicial authorities, mass events are being held to bring offenders to justice in public places.
At present, they do not directly participate in the elections, but should see the organization and voting process, "the Nauryzbayev family noted during the vote.
Taking into account the peculiarities of the application of the new criminal code, a special place will be occupied by the course of "zero tolerance for crimes," which the head of state determined, the department said.
in the country, white cow meat accounts for 61.4% of the total share.
in total, more than 1,500 people were involved in the exit poll.
implementation of the project will improve the quality of motor oils produced at the plant to meet the requirements of environmental classes k4 and k5 (in accordance with Euro-4 and Euro-5 standards), as well as expand the refining capacity of the enterprise.
today, undermining terrorism is a common threat to all States. the ubiquity of terrorism has now become a common threat to all nations .
this historical, traditional relay race also arrived in the capital of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
modernization in all directions, increasing the competitiveness of national economies, improving the well-being of the population.
In the first reading, it is proposed to consider the issue of the development of the cotton industry, in the second reading - the bill on gambling, the press service of the Majilis reports.
francophone, for its part, signed this agreement, warning that Kazakhstan is always happy in these countries and is interested in further strengthening the partnership with Kazakhstan.
sometimes questions arise that we do not live as a Western Europe or an Arab emirate or America. sometimes , some people ask why we do not live like in western europe or in the united arab emirates , or in america .
bidders must present environmentally efficient architectural projects that can be implemented in a new urban space.
10,939 new jobs were created, of which 5,888 were permanent.
The participants of the event answered questions of Turkish journalists of interest to the Eurasian Economic Union and its cooperation with Turkey.
The leaders and employees of financial organizations of the country are ready to do everything possible to contribute to maintaining the systemic movement of our society towards a higher stage of economic development, and are fully aware of the importance of the proposed elections as a necessary stage on this path, the authors write.
for the first time, the company began organizing the production of drilling pipes of an industrial innovation project, equipment and equipment used in the field of exploration and uranium production.
Over the past period of winter 2014-2015, a large number of snowfalls, a decrease in temperature, blizzards and snowstorms occurred, the department said.
As noted in the Governor's Office, the friendship hall is the only children's assembly of the people of Kazakhstan in the region, where children get acquainted with the traditions and customs of representatives of different nationalities living in Kazakhstan.
the scholarship is intended for applicants wishing to undergo scientific practice in the programs of undergraduate and master's studies and phd doctoral studies in the field of social and humanitarian science and performing skills.
and when they criticized the contestants, they again expressed their love and respect.
Now we are considering land along the waaage, which Almaty businessmen can use in the future as storage. now we are looking for a land near bakad ( big almaty ring road ) for agricultural products , which almaty businessmen could take immediately to the fields in the storage chamber .
an additional KZT186.4 million was allocated for running expenses in the field of social assistance and social security.
And the Chairman of the meeting on legal support of agreements between the Presidents of the two states expressed the readiness of Kazakh parliamentarians to continue to contribute to the strengthening of cooperation between the two countries.
Joseph Mifsud noted that international observers are carefully looking at the voting, talking with voters.
for example, in order to avoid violating the rules of stopping or parking vehicles in paid parking lots, evasion of payment for toll parking, public transport on city routes in order to consider administrative responsibility for violation of this ban, in addition, the determination of tariffs on urban public transport depending on the distance of stopping points. The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Road Transport" proposes to provide for a differentiated tariff.
these sports increase the physical training of military personnel, develop logic, thinking abilities, and reaction.
In addition, according to the agency, the North Kazakhstan region completed water pumping in the village of Kiyaly, Akkayyn district.
Today, the automotive industry is forming and entering a new stage of development, "read Andrei Lavrentiev, chairman of the board of the automobile company allurgroup.
the image of World War II consists of historical data, stories of war veterans, their relatives and acquaintances, collected from front-line letters and diaries.
if previously they were financed according to cost estimates, now the funds are allocated to each patient registered in the clinic.
During the meeting with the Minister of Transport of Latvia, issues of transport and transit cooperation were discussed, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached in the framework of the last meeting of the Kazakh-Latvian intergovernmental commission.
During today's session, the opinion of the speakers is not in vain in the same direction, we have the same desire, both thought and goal for the future. thanks to the unity and social stability , our country has made impressive progress in the political and economic development .
the development of the transport network, the creation of a new highway, the creation of safe conditions on the roads to expand the transit of cargo flows through the country.
here the participants exchanged views, expressed their proposals and thanked for the cycle.
The parties noted that the signing of the document is an important step in strengthening bilateral partnership in the field of combating crime and contributes to improving the effectiveness of the work of the competent authorities of the two countries in the criminal legal sphere.
- For the production of our copy a separate decision was made, a special document was developed.
In terms of growth rates, the capital started, which increased last year's figure by 2 times, which is 367.6 square meters. meters. the capital shows the best result , in comparison with the last year figures increased by almost 2-fold to 367.6 square meters .
we were given a mandate for this, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The purpose of the construction of the plant is to satisfy the demand of long rails p65 "ktzh" uk "and the needs of the Republic of Kazakhstan for large-grade rental.
is observed growing from year to year. we see that the population of kazakh white is growing .
As a result, more than 400 new jobs were created.	as a result , more than 400 new workplaces were created .	0,79
the senator noted that the purpose of this meeting is to familiarize with positive experiences in the field, as well as to study issues arising during industrial and innovation activities in the region, and to solve issues that require legislative support.	the senator noted that the purpose of this meeting is to introduce the positive experience of the area , as well as the study of problems arising in the course of industrial innovation in the region and the resolution of which requires legislative support .	0,79
the success of reforms can only be due to the perseverance of the government and the people, "he said. Nazarbayev at yesterday's congress of the Nur Otan party.
the winners were awarded diplomas, medals and a passing cup.
ensuring transparency in the distribution of housing for military personnel, full access to information about their priority, eliminating the causes and conditions that encourage corruption in this area - all this is determined by the task for the current year during the meeting of the commission of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan on monitoring the implementation of anti-corruption legislation in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in the village of Kosshy, work is underway to strengthen the dam on the banks of the Nura River.
facilities should not remain dressed in another country. the objects should not be delayed , as happened in some countries .
The Governor of the region presented veterans with festive coins for ensuring a peaceful life in the open air.
The purpose of the fund is to invest in the agricultural industry of Kazakhstan.
the kingdom is a member of the World Trade Organization, the secretariat of the Pacific Community, the Pacific Islands Forum, and the Commonwealth of Nations
for example, in Bulgaria, young people are not so politically active, and here there is an interest of Kazakh youth in the electoral process and politics in general.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 87 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by decree of the Head of State:
products of the plant are exported to Russia, Azerbaijan, Georgia.
According to him, the average republican level per capita increased 1.4 times and amounted to 2092.9 thousand tenge.
m. "The Malaysian side intends to further improve relations in the field of tourism, and confirming this, a tourism department will be opened at the Malaysian Embassy in Kazakhstan in Almaty."
I congratulate you on the upcoming significant anniversary - the 70th anniversary of the great victory. i heartily congratulate you on the upcoming holiday , significant anniversary - the 70th anniversary of the great victory !
In the winter of 2014-2015, rescuers rescued 1780 people from snow drifts, evacuated 479 units of automobile equipment.
in the presidential all-around, he won 1st place, the military institute of the national guard took 2nd place, the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications took 3rd place.
In the morning, the Preobrazhensky hydroelectric complex dumped a large amount of water ³ 2440 m, water of this volume from the hydroelectric complex is carried out for the first time. this morning preobrazhensky hydroelectric station missed a record amount of water - 2,440 cubic meters , a volume of the first passes through the waterworks .
Ambassador during the ceremony e. to the great status of Kazykhanov, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. said hello to Nazarbayev.
mission representatives visited 3 thousand 542 polling stations in Kazakhstan.
artists of the central ensemble of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented war veterans with their festive programs.
It is worth noting that the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants is being worked out for the first time to facilitate the political process.
returned to the country, worked in the fire service in Shymkent.
Representatives of agriculture of the region delivered 2.2 thousand tons of dairy products, 1.7 thousand tons of face products and 23.9 million eggs to the capital.
Last year, the plant began to produce a three-phase transformer.
According to him, as part of the 70th anniversary of the Victory during the year, members of the West Kazakhstan Cultural Center will take part in events to support veterans.
the combination of colors in ceremonial clothing samples, for example, a hat, a uniform and a blue belt, a white dress and boots, a ceremonial belt and a golden axelbant determine the tenderness and elegance of beautiful representatives of the armed forces.
this indicates the special active participation of Kazakhstanis in the presidential elections, "he said.
Streamline the financial situation of agricultural enterprises. we need to tidy up the financial status of agricultural enterprises .
large-scale goals require accelerating the work of the construction company.
the military base in its city will be the venue for the final qualifying stage.
according to tradition, on this day a festive table is heard in each house.
I say that only these funds will be received from the government reserve.
Zauresh Kuantaevna thanked the university for its fruitful cooperation and noted that communication with universities provides advanced training for teachers and scientific and methodological support.
Kazakhstan, in turn, not only supports the initiative proposed by the head of the PRC to create an economic belt of the silk road, but is also ready for its further development.
this is the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the 70th anniversary of the Second World War. "
According to the Ministry of Finance, 12,411 residential facilities totaling 87.6 billion tenge; 7,857 non-residential facilities worth 30.5 billion tenge, including 1,491 commercial facilities worth 17.4 billion tenge; 20 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; 1 security in the amount of KZT0.8 bn.
in rural areas, poor infrastructure makes it difficult to create jobs.
Almost all present supported the candidacy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, nominated in the extraordinary presidential elections at the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan party.
in addition, all actions are accumulated during the operational service.
During the meeting, the heads of state will discuss issues of deepening the trade turnover of the three countries and improving economic relations of the states.
In the first half of 2015, it is planned to open a business incubator in chromatau.
In his speech, Aslan Sarinzhipov noted that the participation of our country in the international movement "worldskills" is a concrete step towards integration into the world educational space and positively affects the image of technical knowledge.
Peace and harmony today is one of the most important issues on the agenda, "said the deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, head of the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the presidential administration.
The campaign in support of the earth's clock will end on March 28 with the day of the Khan Shatyr holiday.
The meeting of the CIS Heads of Government will discuss a plan of joint actions to resolve topical issues in the field of the financial economy.
The purpose of the program is to improve the quality of program documents and action plans developed by local executive bodies for the regional and rural regions of Kazakhstan.
Among the important issues of the country's development, the majilisman noted the new economic policy of the head of state "nұrly zhol."
In the elections in Zhambyl region, high electoral activity of the population was noted. elections in zhambyl region were marked by a very high electoral activity of the population .
the parties also discussed the integration mechanisms for the inventory of the action plan of the multilateral trade and economic cooperation program and the list of measures for the further development of the project activities.
The appearance and purposeful tasks of the public institution of interethnic relations have changed.
Addressing veterans, the head of the city thanked them for their good work for the good of the country and in the difficult days after the end of the war.
in particular, these are invasive operations.
In addition, 11 out of 12 districts of Aktobe region are currently provided with a fiber-opitic communication network.
there must be knowledge and capacity to do so, and work in this direction requires a certain level of work and development.
Your way of life is an example of hard work, determination, desire to serve society, hard work for the benefit of your people.
The law provides for the development of standards for special work for persons with disabilities.
Recall that 17 billion 650 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of this program.
Kazakhstan considers it necessary to effectively balance the three main areas of the agreement: the renunciation of nuclear weapons, their non-proliferation, their peaceful use.
your voice is your future. "
Veterans remembered their military years and told young people about the years of hostilities. the veterans remembered the difficult war years , told the young people , as they were defending their homeland , how hard it was to lose on the battlefield of his comrades , what pride they feel for the independence of kazakhstan .
and the size of a specific amount can be called only when it becomes known, "said the head of the CEC.
investors intend to organize full-fledged production: from modern technologies for sowing wheat to processing wheat and recycling its waste. the investors are going to organize a full production cycle : from the use of modern technology to plant wheat to grain processing and recycling .
The Belgian king sent congratulations and warm wishes to Nursultan Nazarbayev in connection with the fulfillment of his high duty in the presidency.
Kazakh athletes adequately defended the country's honor at the Universiade arena.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstanis are an independent group.
according to the project, the planned capacity of the plant will be at least 25 tons of refined gold and tons of silver per year.
the chairman considers it necessary to justify by qualified decisions the high status of the Senate in the political system of the state, avoiding meaningless haste in the work of the upper house.
the senator recalled that since January 1 of this year, pension payments have increased by 9%, the lowest subsistence level, and an increase in lump-sum payments due to fertility.
According to the Governor's office, a lot of work was done to draw the attention of the population to sports.
coming to the country, he notices changes that have affected the fate of thousands of young people. "
1,200 schools will be built in the village of freedom of the oil depot and two schools with 900 seats in the Karakiyan district.
this system fully automates the operations of the operational, statistical and administrative divisions, and through the system specialists can also study and monitor in certain areas and the regional center.
the program is written in the youth language, so we can confidently say that this is a document prepared by young people.
upgraded site platform is created visually and convenient for use.
The parties noted the significant potential for deepening the business partnership.
Festive events, concerts were organized in the relay seats.
We have already implemented the first projects.
everything is done in our country so that people with disabilities can pursue a career and achieve success in the profession. in our country everything is done that people with disabilities can build a career and achieve success in the profession .
cooperation within the framework of the Agreement can be carried out in the form of information exchange, exchange of experience, joint planning and other forms provided for in Article 5 of the Agreement, the statement said.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted in his welcoming speech that interstate cooperation between Almaty and France has been firmly established in trade, economic, educational, humanitarian and other spheres.
under the White Stream program, it is planned to implement 5 projects worth 2.4 billion tenge.
medicines are directed through pharmacy organizations providing pharmaceutical services.
A round table on the topic of state protection of the rights and interests of children was assembled to discuss fisheries issues in the Republic of Kazakhstan, reflected in this document, "the statement said.
As a result of the discussions, the national commission prepared proposals to central and local government bodies.
In order to ensure access of people with disabilities to polling stations, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan appealed to akimats with a request to equip polling stations with means (special ramps, pens, etc.) for their unhindered and safe access.
Askhat daulbaev thanked the veterans of the prosecutor's office for many years of fruitful work and handed them departmental awards.
In view of the importance of the effectiveness and quality of the work of specialized juvenile courts for the establishment and integrated development of the juvenile justice system, the Department of Court Support at the Supreme Court conducted an analysis of their work in 2014-2015.
According to the press service, three single ratification documents will be submitted to the deputies regarding the ratification of the grant agreement on the project "Improving energy efficiency in Kazakhstan," as well as amendments to the articles of the agreement of the International Monetary Fund.
Our female partners have achieved great success in their professional activities and become worthy competitors for men. our women - diplomats are making progress in their professional activities , giving men a run for their money .
At the same time, the human rights activist intends to introduce the Kazakh population to the tradition of Arab society.
it is perceived as a good programme for the sustainable and sustainable development of Kazakhstan in such difficult conditions as it is now.
The average life of thermal power plants is 28.8 years, and hydroelectric power plants - 35.7 years, "said the vice minister.
A member of the faction of the party "Nұr Otan" Nikolai logutov in his speech voiced to the deputy corps of the party "Nұr Otan" the tasks of implementing the new economic program "Nұrly zhol," which requires legislative support, five institutional reforms established by the head of state.
This is a historical opportunity to become even stronger and more organized, ensuring the implementation of the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" and the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," the letter says.
Within the framework of the program, 91 apartment buildings worth 1.2 billion tenge were repaired in 3 years, including 40 houses worth 668 million tenge were repaired in 2014.
It was attended by heads of central and local executive bodies, representatives of international organizations, public associations.
The meeting also discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation, including the construction of a medical center and a number of projects that should be implemented as part of the modernization of the ambulance system in the regions of the country.
It should be noted that the exercises used new digital stations p142n1, p409mts, t240tm1, which are superior in nature to the old-style technique.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the work of industrial enterprises, met with labor collectives, held a meeting on the development of local content and employment of the population.
The program has been implemented since last year, and the results of its work for this period can be seen clearly.
now we are doing everything possible to attract small and medium-sized businesses to the development of the capital.
According to the report as of January 15, 2015, according to code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 348.8 million tenge.
Following the meeting, B. Saparbayev gave a number of instructions regarding the improvement of mechanisms for modernizing universities, their optimization, as well as the creation of mechanisms for monitoring the employment of graduates and increasing the level of integration of education, science and innovation.
According to representatives of the department, the purpose of the meeting is to discuss the identified problems and develop proposals for the formation of specific mechanisms aimed at eliminating the customs paper nature, ensuring the quality, proper functioning of customs and registration services.
the people of Kazakhstan have made their wishes clear and clear.
the transition of military equipment to the historical T-34 tank begins.
The complex, built on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan, will serve 3 thousand tourists in the 14-month winter season.
good, peace, just coexistence under the blue sky, well-being of every family, "said E. Omuraliev.
And today we are launching another unique center in order to improve the prospects for serving the population, "the Governor of the region said at the opening.
During the visit, the two heads of state are scheduled to participate in the second meeting of the Council of Strategic Cooperation at the highest level.
During the event, the director of the N.Uanyshev archive, an honorary citizen of the city of Kyzylorda m.z.podolsky, the center of public consent of the regional akim's office "The head of the department of MP S. Sibraev, the head of the department of the archive of altynbayev, representatives of regional ethnocultural associations emphasized that the assembly of people of Kazakhstan, which was created on the initiative of the Head, which celebrates its 20th anniversary this year, plays an important role in the formation of our country."
the telegram says that the President of Kazakhstan in shock received the news of the death of a prominent politician of a global scale, founded by the Singaporean state.
based on the preliminary design results, he presented to the partnerships an estimate and schedule for the implementation of the project. as a result of conceptual design tco presented to the partners the estimate and project schedule .
in general, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is considering all measures to form and strengthen a national culture aimed at protecting the safety of labor insurance for workers by improving and protecting work, and creating a strong, effective State labor inspectorate.
According to the chairman of the meeting, its phased implementation will be carried out by the national commission for modernization.
all opportunities for our training and work are open.
In 2014, beef grew 6 times, 615 tons were exported, in 2013 exports did not take place.
- Issuing ballots to citizens in order to enable them to vote for others;
5.1 thousand tons of wool were added and increased by 0.2%.
Today, the world needs to be conveyed to tomorrow's generation, "said L. Khochiev.
judges should not be closed to society and should be the same as them.
In 2014, the company underwent modernization and increased its capacity to 8 thousand cubic meters per year.
for this there is a national fund, there is a country's economy that works very efficiently in difficult times, "he added.
before my eyes, an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan was formed, many public associations appeared, their degree changed. i was witness of the foundation of the assembly of people of kazakhstan , associations .
in addition, the delegation noted the basic principles that determine the foundations and development of the country.
The volume of manufacturing industry grew 1.9 times and amounted to 137.7 billion tenge.
Congratulating the diplomat on his appointment, the Chairman of the Senate noted the fruitful activity of M. Meench as the head of the regional center for steam preventive diplomacy.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, which celebrates its 20th anniversary this year, has become an example for many countries of the world.
all of them are equipped with the necessary means to ensure that you receive a high-quality modern education, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
All events that will be held as part of the 70th anniversary of the great victory and the "victory relay" are aimed at popularizing the work of prominent military border guards, strengthening the friendship of states in the post-Soviet space and will become a celebration of the soldiers who defended their homeland in difficult days.
in particular, this is the creation of environmental technology and engineering centers, the further development of the Pavlodar special economic zone and industrial territory, the opening of technology parks on the basis of the regional institutes, the opening of the food logistics hub and the international medical cardiology center.
In addition, according to the head of the regional department of agriculture, this year the area of ​ ​ sown areas will be 557.3 thousand hectares.
Forest, in turn, expressed interest in developing interregional cooperation in the field of agriculture and biotechnology, as well as in the field of education and scientific research, which are the main drivers of the state.
Constitutional revolution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the role of the Nazarbayev.	while her speech she stated president of the republic of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev played lead role in the adoption and development of the current constitution .	0,80
we are 17 states that won the right to hold a world exhibition, and we could not win it from 160 states, "said the leader of the nation.
department employees check all information related to WWII veterans and their families.
In connection with the formation of statehood, the event promotes common values ​ ​ - stability, peace, harmony, "said Nurlan Nurkenov, deputy akim of the Akmola region.
we plan to move to the Arab emirate and other countries.
To date, more than 100 foreign inspections have been carried out in Kazakhstan.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in January 2015 was 119,280 tenge.
The exhibition is based on photographs taken during the war years by front-line correspondents in different years and on different fronts of the war.
today in the central office we gathered women from all over the country. at best , we see our beautiful women .
It is expected that the changes will contribute to the influx of foreign direct investment and the development of entrepreneurship in the exploration industry and the creation of new jobs.
141 technical, 79 medical, as well as new specialties - aerospace specialty, analytical chemistry, agronomy, agricultural production and processing technology, toxicology, "said Mr. Nygymetov.
In connection with the dilapidated engineering networks, the head of state instructed within the framework of the Nұrly zhol program to implement a direct water supply system for the modernization of housing and communal services, "he said.
now it is necessary to imagine a new country, a state with a powerful future.
the main goal is to ensure uninterrupted work in the production complex and maintain the necessary volume of production, take into account the needs of the city's population and prevent social conflict, preserve the unity and peace of families.
Since the official beginning of the event, fifty servicemen from different regions of the country have shared their memories of parents and acquaintances who took part in the Great Patriotic War.
In addition, 306 participants, 215 of whom received assistance under the annual plan, were sent under the third component of the training and relocation programme as part of the employer's training needs under the first component.
The Chamber of Entrepreneurs is actively involved in the process of creating effective measures aimed at the further development of entrepreneurship in the country. the nce is actively involved in developing of effective solutions aimed at further development of the kazakhstan 's entrepreneurship .
modernization of testing, training of specialists and their promotion.	it worth nothing , one of measures will be a development of profile of professional and personal qualities of a public servant .	0,80
now there is an award of authors of works.
and Mashkina marina dementievna recalled the years of the war with youth.
The purpose of the program is to establish competitive, eco-oriented industries of the non-resource sector in Kazakhstan by training regional and world-class companies.
it's not professional thinking.
pupils of this school will develop rhythmic gymnastics and sports games, "the report said.
equipment of a modern poultry farm was brought from Germany, Belgium, Switzerland.
One of the topical issues on the agenda was the discussion of multilateral cooperation in the field of combating terrorism, separatism and extremism.
new opportunities are emerging in medicine.
according to the conclusion of the committee of international relations, the form of the agreement is to determine the procedure for cooperation between the competent authorities of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan in the field of civil defense, disaster prevention and response, training specialists in the field of emergency situations to provide voluntary and mutual assistance in the event of a disaster or other disaster.
to support the education and health of the district.
society understands the importance of voting, which pleases us.
the document must be approved by the authorized bodies by July 1, 2015.
organization at a very high level.
As a result of the work carried out last year, 92.0% of the population was provided with centralized water supply.
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on the preparation of a protocol on cooperation between the religious affairs departments of the two countries in the field of theological education by exchanging experience in the field of religion, and training Kazakh clergy in Turkey.
Drafting of a law on access to information, which ensures the openness of any information other than State secrets and other information protected by law held by State authorities.
As the deputy noted, the head of state at the enlarged government meeting on February 11 instructed to develop a set of anti-crisis measures by justifying the expenses of the republican budget for 2015.
At present, special attention should be paid to the industrialization map. now we need to pay attention to the expansion of the industrialization road map .
Modifying the findings of monopoly activities to bring them in line with OECD standards.
the Kazakh model of peace and harmony is being studied in many countries.
In this regard, the akim presented the club captain with a special gift and wished all athletes new victories, "the statement said.
The aim of the action is to provide social assistance to children from low-income, large, low-income families, orphans and children left without parental care and other categories of children entitled to social assistance.
The main goal here is to help every citizen and foreign tourism learn more about the country.
In addition, during the meeting, the results of the implementation of the sectoral program on anti-corruption for 2011-2015 were summed up.
According to the head of the regional education department, the new message is a very important document.
The Secretary of State at a meeting with representatives of ethnocultural associations of the region at the Center for Customs and Traditions of Shymkent noted the high socio-political significance of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	during the meeting with representatives of ethnic and cultural associations of the region , mrs. abdykalikova noted the high socio-political importance of the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	0,80
these events strengthen the unity of the country, contribute to the development of the Kazakh language and culture of other ethnic groups.	undoubtedly , these activities will further strengthen the unity and cohesion , the development of the kazakh language and national culture of the kazakhs and other ethnic groups of the country .	0,80
According to representatives of the CIS mission, the composition of observers from the CIS mission in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan amounted to 410 people from 8 countries.	the mission of cis observers amounted to 410 observers from 8 countries , 15 observers are working on a long term basis .	0,80
as part of this action, Kazakh Oil Aktobe LLP carried out a complete reconstruction of the apartment of a veteran of the Great Patriotic War.
K. Tokayev informed that on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, a special plan of events for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory was approved, on the eve of 2015, the President of Kazakhstan held a national event to support veterans and the Victory Honor marathon.
According to the press service, a total of 16,063 people have been evacuated since March 23, 43,034 pets have been pumped to safety, 269,151 cubic meters have been pumped out. m of meltwater, 21,823 meters of temporary fences were built, 3,211 meters of dams were restored, 88,212 sandbags were removed and laid.
I agree that today's negotiations went differently from the traditional political dialogue. today 's negotiations are beyond the normal foreign policy dialogue .
As the head of state noted, we must eliminate the inconsistencies between the regions.
According to Kommersant, this is aimed at the effective development of Kazakh content, improving the quality of products of the capital's producers.
In 2015, we plan to integrate the database of universities and colleges with the state center of pension payments.	the integrated database will reflect an actual state of things ,  the minister believes .
our army is able to unconditionally defend every step of our steppe. your inverse labor feat will forever be immortal for all generations of our people , and the memory of your heroism will be sacred to new generations .
Also, the chairman of the Council of Entrepreneurs proposed to open an organization of entrepreneurs in the region and create a single database of investment data in the region.
To train members of election commissions, the CEC released leading tools and prepared video materials. the cec released a manual and video for training of election commission members .
after that, the total volume of crimes decreased, the number of serious and especially serious crimes decreased, "said a. Batalov.
speaking to students, Elmira Sukhanberdieva noted that one of the main tasks of the state in the field of education is to build and build the intellectual potential of the country.
thus, development "enterprise support centers have been opened in all districts of the region.
in other words, historical consciousness should become an important tool for the formation of a civil nation as an ethnic community of citizens of Kazakhstan, regardless of the ethnic and other characteristics of citizens.
stimulating public initiatives aimed at promoting the Kazakh language on the territory of the republic and beyond, including support through sponsorship of projects.
The group includes a member of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Meyram Begentayev and the chairman of the Pavlodar Regional Association of Poles "Polonia" Vitaly Svintsitsky.
the figure shows blue heaven, mountains, in the middle above the blue grass three girls - representatives of different nationalities.
During the meeting, the diplomat emphasized the need to sign an agreement on cultural cooperation between the governments of the two countries in the near future.
The emir also expressed interest in participating in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
in the future, the cluster will open a new enterprise - a plant for the production of engines for diesel locomotives of Kazakh brands.
Musinov serikball rakhimkanula, who previously held the position of Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, was appointed acting general director of the republican state enterprise on the right of economic management of the National Center for the Examination of Medicines, Medical Products and Medical Equipment, "the statement said.
In his speech, the UN Secretary General noted the importance of EXPO-2017, held in Astana as part of the influx of a large number of tourists to Kazakhstan, information correction of the city and support of our country on this issue.
that is, they saved 37.7 million tons of coal of the economy or saved 16.6 million tons of oil, or 19.2 billion cubic meters of blue fuel.
the operator shall then broadcast to all relatives or loved ones who may provide the necessary assistance to the veteran. "
Since the beginning of the year retail trade turnover in the region grew by 1.7% (77 billion tenge), freight turnover - by 0.9%.
As noted, all innovations are aimed at public certification, ensuring the formation of an effective reserve of officers.
The establishment of an international council with the participation of reputable foreign judges and lawyers at the Supreme Court to ensure that the best standards of foreign and international courts are met.
for the first time at the muz-tv award, a song in Kazakh will be performed by Dugalova.
He noted that first of all, this is the adoption of comprehensive measures to enhance mutual trade.
he also spoke about a comprehensive program for the processing of agricultural products in the region.
Congratulating the team on this holiday, the Prosecutor General noted that this great holiday, achieved during the years of independence, has become an invariable sign of spring renewal, relief of time, history and modernity of Kazakhstan, national tradition and continuity of loyalty to the native homeland.
Following the work of the working group, Adilbek Jaksybekov instructed to send a letter to the Ministry of National Economy with relevant proposals.
this is the city square in front of the city governor's office, the square in front of the Baiterek monument, the student park near the Kazakhstan sports palace, the square on the square of the new palace of schoolchildren and r.karbaev street.
this course is certified in kind, the Partnership for Peace program has introduced a system of training and training of military personnel - this is not the only event of interest to a foreign audience.
What is happening within the eurozone has contributed to an increase in investment in the manufacturing sector. the conditions that the eeu created can promote the growth of investments in the manufacturing sector of the economy .
The issue of allocating additional funds from the government portfolio and attracting sponsorship is being considered, "B. Saparbayev said.
thus, vehicles imported from the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union do not meet the requirements of the above order.
As previously reported, one of the important results of the visit was the signing of a readmission agreement between Kazakhstan and the Benelux countries, which is an important component of the continuation of further negotiations on the exemption of diplomatic passport holders from visa requirements and the simplification and elimination of common visa requirements.
servicemen of the Kazakh army have high sports training, "said Yuri Starostin, Honored Skiing Coach of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
with the support of the employment department and social programs, the issues of a social taxi - invataxi, equipped with special facilities for lifting wheelchairs for the disabled, were resolved.
during the course training, cadets will be tested on physical training, combined arms regulations, functional duties and knowledge of the subject of military pedagogy, necessary when working with personnel.
in the festive concert program, students of general education institutions, creative teams of the regional house "public consent," representatives of ethnocultural associations and cultural institutions demonstrated the diversity of Kazakhstan with their creativity.
state policy in the field of immunoprophylaxis is aimed at preventing the disease, and if imported into the country, at its non-proliferation and elimination. state policy in the sphere of immunization is aimed at prevention , localization of infectious diseases .
According to the Ministry of Defense, veterans, fighters-liberators attended a concert program performed by artists of the central ensemble for km.
the main farm products are live and frozen fish.
The head of state stressed that this program should play an important role in the development of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as improving the financial system.
On the same day, in Kostanay, she began work on recruiting his units with a group of officers and military personnel, "said the teacher of school No. 4, anastasia later.
According to the head of the city, today all the reforms in the public transport system of the metropolis have shown their effectiveness, contributed to the stabilization of the situation in the transport sector and improved the quality of service.
they are related to the production of biones, components, salt, household and food pockets.
The volume of investments in the fixed capital of the region amounted to 47.8 billion tenge. investment into equity has made 47 , 8 billion tenge .
You still have to work on this issue, "the working group instructed.
Gennady Ivanovich served in the Dzerzhinsky division of the People's Commissariat of Internal Affairs in the vicinity of Moscow.
in addition, identification of classifiers and identifiers for clinical data rationing in the process of clinical data collection, electronic directions of diagnostic studies and procedures, referral to medical services, as well as obtaining results of diagnostic studies by means of an electronic health passport with external information systems of an electronic health passport for the implementation of electronic health care processes, determination of functional requirements and principles for interaction regulation (national and extreme).
I was struck by the number of voters who came to vote, where there was such a turn, such a turn to the mausoleum in the Soviet Union.	i can compare queues in the polling station with the soviet time , people came in a good mood with their families and children ,  - he said .
we see the future only with you, "the letter says.
a person will never forget about his childhood, and for me this is a place.
The program is aimed specifically at supporting entrepreneurs with disabilities, "the report said.
According to the head of state, the awarding of veterans will reflect the continuous continuity of the older generation, today's citizens and future generations.
During a seminar with foreign experts of the Nazarbayev University Higher School of Public Policy, international practices in the study of corruption perceptions and reports on the quality and reliability of corruption perceptions indices, such as the world-famous transparency international and the world bank, were presented.
And the veteran's family is proud of the hero fathers.
Activities in this direction will continue in the future.
According to the department, until April 27, 2015, the local executive bodies received 1978 applications in the amount of 33,129,712 thousand tenge for the legalization of property located in the territory of Kazakhstan. 2,539 residential objects worth 16,279,712 thousand tenge, 2,833 non-residential objects worth 16,392,025 thousand tenge, 317 commercial objects worth 12,282,668 thousand tenge.
this holiday was a real fairy tale for gifted children.
B. Saparbayev noted that "the main result of the signed documents is the strengthening of business ties between Kazakhstani companies, as a result of which all the parties will win."
we recorded less offense than before.
it is supervised by an employee of the node, a laboratory assistant of the Department of Physics Stanislav Sukhonosov.
According to the survey, 97% of young people support state policy, and 82% not only know the culture of other nationalities, but also actively participate in them.
There is activity from the public, we see that voters gain more votes than in the last election, "said Rustem Kadyrzhanov.
According to him, 7.0 billion tenge was allocated to the interest rate on credit and leasing conditions of financial recovery of bank entities through kazagrotransport.
During the conference, a discussion was organized between parents and children, each of whom we explained in detail their rights and obligations, "said a representative of the education department of Akmola region Zhumabekova.
As noted in the report, the judicial services were evaluated in the categories: the condition and design of the courthouse, planning and conducting expert work, timely and high-quality consideration of cases, organization of trials, use of modern technologies in judicial proceedings, access to judicial information.
Taking into account the experience of the program implementation in 2015 in order to increase the employment efficiency in the first direction of the program it is planned to implement 69 projects totaling 2900.695 million tenge.	within the first direction of the program - employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services - it is planned to realize 69 projects totaling 2900.695 million tenge .	0,80
Summing up the meeting, the head of the region noted the need for the timely start and timely completion of spring field work.	meanwhile , the agricultural producers of the region actively prepare for spring field work , act according to the plan .	0,80
According to the ministry, one of the areas of work in this direction is the creation of a joint subsidiary fund "Central Asian Renewable Energy Fund" with the Islamic Corporation for the Development of icd.
At the meeting, the head of the Kazakh delegation raised the issue of regular dialogue meetings with the aim of identifying and, most importantly, practical and meaningful addition of specific areas of cooperation on the way to finding common points of interaction and uniform positions for joint counteracting threats and threats in the region.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the event, which was attended by employees of state bodies, labor collectives, representatives of enterprises, ethnocultural and public associations, took place with the raising of the flag of ha year.
in my opinion, this is a significant contribution to the work on landscaping of our city.
they can directly send any complaints, proposals through the electronic information system "judicial cabinet" of the Internet resource of the Supreme Court.
All reinforced concrete products produced at the plant comply with the requirements of GOST and PN and have appropriate certificates.
this year, geography has expanded.
currently Asia Auto "produces 17% of Kazakhstani cars.
At the same time, as Dimitar Dekov noted, the elections became a single desire of the people of Kazakhstan.
along the Chongqing-Duisburg route, market measures have been identified for the development of postal cargo transportation as part of a container train and the organization of the first pilot trains along the Chongqing-Kazakhstan-Turkey route.
A certificate of technical inspection of vehicles, issued in accordance with the requirements of international agreements ratified in the Republic of Kazakhstan, has entered into force.
Good deeds were carried out during the month in the regions of our country.
in his opinion, he is at a very high level in information support.
this is joint production, tractor construction, mechanical engineering, combine engineering.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed to organize a meeting of specialists of this center with Kazakh colleagues.
Kazakh-Hungarian relations are stable and have the prospect of strengthening, "said Dossayev.
Currently, the company produces more than 15 types of polyethylene bags, "the report said.
According to the deputy, in the near future, the north-south electricity network will operate in the country.
As you know, we have 94 thousand school-age children, all of them we must provide with inclusive knowledge. as know , we have 94000 school-age children whom we must cover by inclusive education .
The report developed concrete proposals to improve the development of national legislation and jurisprudence in accordance with international standards. the report provides concrete recommendations for improvement , national legislation and practice .
today is a special day for school graduates.	congratulating the students , teachers and parents , the city mayor said :  today is a memorable day for all of graduates .
this is still the first kha institute in the republic.
today the commission will go to the three-tier garrison on its working visit and evaluate their military readiness, readiness of military units to carry out a combat mission, the report said.
has its own land plot and greenhouse near the school, uses advanced technologies in everyday activities.
about 30 works of Kazakh and Soviet composers are performed.
in order to ensure that this situation does not recur and function effectively, land is now allocated for specific projects with real investment investments and a guarantee of implementation to the end.
The winners of the championship were awarded medals, diplomas and valuable prizes of the Kazakhstan Federation of Sports Tourism.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, users of the portal received various questions arising from admission to educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, receiving legal advice, conditions for admission to educational institutions, admission to universities, choosing a specialized subject, hiring in iio.
the commission, on the basis of this application, will approve the list of technical regulations of the customs union distributed to the types of products indicated in the application, as well as approve the list of commission decisions necessary for the application of these technical regulations, and send them to these states, the report said.
The Indian Ambassador noted that his country supports the main international initiatives of Kazakhstan and is interested in further strengthening ties with the Kazakh country.
the Chinese side attaches great importance to the development of relations with Kazakhstan.
work has begun on improving the qualifications of authors and experts with the involvement of leading foreign specialists, "the report said.
The main director of the theater I. Verbitsky thanked the akim of the region for the support provided to the theater, noting that the new theater season opens with the production of "Abylaykhan," dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
In addition, during the event, N. Kazemin, Chairman of the Nauryz Commission, was solemnly presented with a gift from the Secretary General of Turksoy dusen kaseyinov.
Opening the forum, Abdikhalikova noted the achievements of our country in promoting gender equality and increasing the business activity of women.
A great day is approaching - the 70th anniversary of victory, in connection with which, on behalf of the president, large events are taking place in the country. on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the victory , on behalf of the president of the country big events are planned .
6151 thousand tenge are allocated from the regional budget for the purchase of by-products for patients with "acute leukemia," "aplastic anemia" with an updated diagnosis of "hepatitis c."
the participation of young people in the elections speaks of the democracy of the state, which means that the more people participate in the elections, the more they believe in democracy, "the deputy said.
The main goal of the program is the development of the infrastructure framework necessary for the economy, the opening of new business opportunities in the region.
tourism is an integral part of the economy of the nation and should be carried out systematically and comprehensively. tourist activity is a component of the national economy , and approaches to its options have to be system and complex .
I sincerely congratulate you on the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The construction of the stadium is planned to be completed this spring.
an increase in the volume of deliveries and a decrease in wholesale prices by 5% from 413 to 392 tenge/kg led to cheaper products.
According to the Deputy Chief of the General Staff, the decision of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan created an organizing committee for holding festive events.
As the participant noted, I want the poster to be light, understandable and relevant, semantic.
During the meeting, issues of improving legal mechanisms and preventing corruption offenses, as well as eliminating their consequences were discussed, the report said.
In September of this year, the plant plans to switch to full capacity and even double the volume of production due to growing demand for construction materials.
According to S. Dyachenko, Kazakhstan attaches particular importance, first of all, to the implementation of the agreements of the heads of the two countries aimed at strengthening economic cooperation.
speaking to the conference participants. Kazykhanov noted Kazakhstan's huge contribution to the process of global nuclear disarmament.
five hundred young people danced, and then wrote down the word "our leader"
in addition to cultural events, residents and guests of the capital are given the opportunity to find out interesting data about the upcoming exhibition EXPO-2017.
a draft program for organizing the purchase of milk has been developed, the activities of responsible persons have been determined.	draft project on milk purchase developed and financing mechanisms on such directions as the  business roadmap 2020 " and the program " development of single-industry cities for 2012-2020 " proposed as well .
because in these places construction is going negatively, they should be stopped and considered the master plans of these settlements, because they are not taken into account, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
this document is aimed at the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Optimization and Automation of Public Services in the Social and Labor Sphere."
At present, it is necessary to promote positive aspects in the life of Kazakhstan on the protection of children's rights, social development of the population and health care, "the head of unisef in Kazakhstan said in his speech.
During the meeting, Muhammad al-Huleifi congratulated the Kazakh ambassador on the start of a diplomatic mission in a neighboring state and noted the high level of political cooperation.	mohamed al khuleifi congratulated the kazakh ambassador on the beginning of diplomatic mission in qatar , noting high level of political cooperation between astana and doha , the authority reports .	0,81
Services were provided to 2,974 persons, including 1,277 entrepreneurs.	2,974 people , including 1,277 entrepreneurs received the services .	0,81
the state should have strong weapons, be good with neighbors, find friends.	it is necessary to make the efforts , the economy must be strong , young people must be educated , security system must be strong .	0,81
cabibollah jakupov informed about legislative work in the field of health care, "the report said.
As noted in the Committee of Civil Aviation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this agreement was signed as part of the implementation of the tasks for the development of international aviation transportation and aviation hubs in Kazakhstan, voiced by the head of state in a message to the people "Way to the Future."
that time he said that he had received a great impression from Almaty, and now he wants to see a new capital - the very well-known capital of Kazakhstan.
Fish on the island are sold on the European market, "he said.
L. Elich, with the sponsorship of Canadian companies operating in Kazakhstan, accompanied the publication of business information.
Also on this day, the Majilismen received a positive assessment of the "bill on the termination of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Community."
A year later, having received the military rank of "junior sergeant," the 235th Infantry Division of the 53rd Army as part of the 806th Infantry Regiment went to the north-western front, "said Colonel Daulet Alimzhanov, deputy head of the personnel department of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
now we have moved to the second stage of these works.
Recall that on February 17 of this year, at an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister Tamara Dusenova said that specialists of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan are making efforts to improve the quality of services provided in the field of health and social and labor.
the transfer of State functions for forensic examinations from the health system to the Ministry of Justice requires amendments to the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Health of the People and the Health System."
I. Rogov stressed that in accordance with paragraph 3-1 of article 41 of the basic law, the establishment of early presidential elections is exclusively within the competence of the President of Kazakhstan.
then the head of the batal region took part in the opening of a cattle and milk plant on the basis of Medeukommerts LLP in the village of Kemerovo.
war participant has a number of anniversary awards.
According to E. Sembinov.
and during command flights, instructor-methodical knowledge was tested, individual skills of instructor pilots were strengthened, and the interaction of crews with the flight control group was worked out.
According to the head of state, each meter of land should, accordingly, be effectively used according to market requirements.
According to the head of the region, the school needs major repairs, "the report said.
According to the Chairman of the Majilis, after 2015, the entire international community should participate in the process of achieving sustainable development goals at the global level.
for us, this should be a decisive indicator, and in the future we should increase it, "said E. Sagadiev.
the second stage (September-November) cardholders will receive one-time targeted and housing assistance, preferential medicines in pharmacies, and children from low-income families will receive free meals at school.
It is worth noting that the new greenhouse and commodity-dairy farm are included in the program of development of the food belt of Almaty.
we have a policy of broad implementation of all plans. we have such a policy to do everything step by step , effort by effort .
consumers of services: Kazakhstan km, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, local executive bodies, state and private organizations.
According to the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, the main aspect of the agency's work is improving the accessibility and quality of public services.
in addition, senators ratified the readmission agreement between Kazakhstan and Belarus.
the share of SMEs in gross regional product is 25.6%, and the average republican indicator is 17.3%.
this is the first experience of the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies together with domestic and foreign experts.
In order to systematize the work to improve the quality of the air atmosphere in the city of Aktobe, a plan for 2014-2016 was approved.
At the same time, the average per capita nominal monetary income of the population in November 2014, according to preliminary data, amounted to 62,355 tenge and increased by 9.1% compared to the corresponding period of 2013.
There are two important factors that seemed dangerous for Kazakhstan for many and multinational foreign experts.
residents of the city need to make this information more understandable.
Last year a lot of work was done in the area, but there is still a lot of work ahead, "summed up A. Batalov.
the construction of a giant road goes to the Caspian Sea through the Karaganda, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Aktobe regions.
the adoption of this bill does not incur additional costs and excludes socio-economic, as well as legal consequences, "the relevant committee said.
The document was developed as part of the further development of the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union and defines the algorithm for interaction between the member states of the union in accordance with the agreement as part of the temporary introduction of the SPS, the EEC said.
In addition, he noted that this period is the optimal period for saving budget funds and preparing for the election campaign.
A total of 16,154,017 people evacuated in 10 returned to their shelters, 1,632 people are in evacuation. overall , 10,017 people from 16,154 evacuees have returned to their homes .
The press conference will be attended by the Deputy Executive Director of the Foundation of the First President of Kazakhstan Adilbek Musabayev and the Director of the Fund for the Development of the State Language.
At the same time, the minister noted that the term for subtracting a 12-year education will still be considered.
We are confident that thanks to the consolidation of the policy pursued by the head of state, we will be able to achieve further dynamic development of the country and increase the well-being of citizens.
two each from the Federal Republic of Germany, the State of Georgia and Israel; three or three - the Netherlands Kingdom and the Croatian Republic, one - the Estonian Republic.
Recall that today the country is holding early presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
forces were sent during floods in order to strengthen rescue teams in the northern and southern regions of the country.
I want us to live in a prosperous state, so that our children are happy, "said A.Rermekova.
The level of knowledge from the main guidance documents, as well as other disciplines mandatory for military discipline, is checked.
the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy is difficult to assess in words, there are many indices and combinations.
G. Golovkin concluded by noting that the support of Nursultan Nazarbayev and all Kazakhstanis strengthens his efforts to win.
The working group includes leading experts - Yuri buluktaev and madina nurgalieva, independent expert marat shibutov, editor-in-chief of the online magazine "Power" Vyacheslav abramov.
the culmination of the celebration of the anniversary of the Victory will be a military parade.
The meeting considered the results of a social study conducted by the Ministry of Culture and Sports together with the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on issues of inter-ethnic relations.
The meeting also discussed issues of full integration of the Kyrgyz Republic into a single economic space in terms of providing financial assistance to the Government of Kazakhstan on the arrangement of checkpoints on the border of Kyrgyzstan with China, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
in particular, the head of state noted that infrastructure development, which has become one of the key issues of the Astana economic forum, is important for the economy of Kazakhstan, located in the center of the continent and directly landlocked.
To clarify information about voters, a specialized call center has been created in each district and city of the republic.
the program of the event includes theatrical performances with the participation of fairy-tale characters.
Last year, 250 billion tenge was allocated for the fund of problem loans, which will be coordinated between banks to solve the problem of bad loans.	as the speaker stated currently a number of measures is undertaken to develop the funds amountin 250 billion tenge allocated for the troubled loans fund in 2014 .	0,81
And institutions in the regions, in turn, will work differently, "said the executive director.
The good-neighbourly tribe of Akmola will go to northern Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the tournament was organized at the initiative of the ground forces.
they have the right to manufacture products.
The basis of the development of Kazakhstan is the electric network and the main generation facilities. the basis of united energy system ( ues ) of kazakhstan is the national electricity network and basic generation facilities .
Kazakhstan became the first country to officially transfer the archival affairs of Spain among the countries of the former USSR.
all this requires amendments to the relevant charters of the chamber, "said the chairman of the presidium of the national chamber of entrepreneurs timur kulibayev.
Also, an excellent Mukhamedieva spoke about the powers of Kazakhstan in violation of the antimonopoly body and antitrust legislation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
preparation and certification. "
in addition, according to B. Atamkulov, the Eurasian integration of Kazakhstan and the conditions for joining the World Trade Organization limit measures to support domestic goods.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan stressed that the country, implementing integrated modernization programs, attaches great importance to attracting world best practices and innovative technologies to Kazakhstan and creates favorable conditions for mutually beneficial cooperation.
It should be noted that the publication of the agency in the near future and in the future is an important source of information in knowledge and understanding of the current situation in the energy markets in the world. the publication of the iea is one of the most important sources for investigating the situation of the world energy markets today and in the future .
Also, according to him, it is planned to bring from all over Kazakhstan about 2 thousand orphans and children with disabilities and low-income families.
all his works are multifaceted, have a deep meaning and are relevant today.
Currently, active participants in discussions on the online platform, that is, a pool of experts, are being created, "said Sengerbekov.
the focus was on Kazakh-Chinese interregional cooperation. one of the most important themes was the development of the kazakh-chinese interregional cooperation .
the Norman fourth meeting in the capital did not take place.
To date, 178 operational teams from 441 specialists in Kazakhstan work in 441 countries with the highest unemployment rate and 191 districts.
The organizers of the event familiarized students with the rich materials of international exhibitions.
In this regard, on the basis of public-private partnership, all conditions are created for improving the entrepreneurial environment, appropriate measures are actively taken, "he said.
we want to radically change the attitude towards this issue.
the jury presented many works showing the high level of education, creative thoughts of students.
his manhood and devotion should not remain indifferent.
Recall that this year South Kazakhstan entrepreneurs visited Afghanistan, and this visit of Afghans was a response to this, "the report said.
In order to ensure the volumes of gas we need, we must attract more investments in the exploration of blue fuel, for this purpose, with the support of treatment and education, a draft Code on the subsoil of Kazakhstan is being developed. in order to provide necessary level of gas supply , we need to increase investments in exploration of new fields and , in this regard , the ministry for investment and development and the ministry of economy develop draft natural resources code .
And on architecture and urban planning, the parties agreed to expedite the consideration of appeals from entrepreneurs, "the Chamber of Entrepreneurs said in a statement.
the main task to date is to deliver a minimum environmental burden to the region, ensure energy security and create new jobs. The task is to reduce the environmental burden on the region, energy security, create new jobs.
Given the fact that the mother group of Kaaz fish has formed, and the age of spawning is 10-11 years, in the next 5-6 years the natural growth of the mother group of the Kaaz will be formed and achieved, "the report said.
The First Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan told the Turkish side about the main issues facing the prosecutor's office, including the mastery of international experience in the fight against crime - one of the most important areas for improving the work of supervisory authorities.
According to representatives of the Majilis of the Parliament, the Deputy Speaker of the Majilis during the meeting with the heads of Bosnia and Herzegovina informed the heads of the two countries about the desire of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev for prosperity.
The Academy award was received by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Russia.
the fire station includes a building, a communication point, a glove part, warehouses for fire fighting equipment and equipment, dormitories for personnel, a training tower, and a boiler room.
To update the housing stock in 2014 at the expense of the republican budget it is planned to repair 60 residential buildings in the amount of 589 million tenge, in 2015 it is planned to repair 18 houses in the amount of 270.3 million tenge.
they caused this meeting, "A. Lukashenko told reporters.
According to the speakers, the general training is in satisfactory condition, work is underway to repair greenhouses, preserve and exchange Cossacks.
commanders spoke with the military and asked for their opinion on the new system.
In turn, students under the "future" program thanked the state for the opportunity to get an education in the best German universities and expressed their firm intention to use the knowledge gained in their homeland.
One of the main activities of the fund is the support of creative youth. one of the key points of the foundation is to support creative youth .
A special programme has been developed to improve the financial literacy of the population www.1ccc.kz.
In addition, at a meeting of the committee in the second reading, the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of legal regulation of the field of intellectual property" was considered.
The total amount of financing for 2015 amounted to 9,451.7 million tenge, including: 1) the republican system - 4,111.4 million tenge; 2) local system - 5 340.3 million tenge.
a, s. Mattarella on behalf of the Italian people and on his own behalf congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory.
In particular, a number of events will be organized for the development of trade and economic cooperation and the formation of a market expansion.
The main direction of jazz development is biomass.
As the President noted, this path will ensure the security and stability of the countries of the past.
At the same time, he noted that the White Road party, as a rule, refers to unfair actions of state bodies and corruption.
production of motor vehicles, production of electric machines and electrical installations, agricultural engineering, mining and metallurgical industry and oil and gas equipment, "said M.Pshembayev.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is a landmark event for the people. the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate is a very significant date for the nation .
we will make efforts to strengthen the authority and potential of this inter-parliamentary organization, "said the chairman of the Senate.
on the plaque in Polish and Russian it is written: "Eternal glory to the Soviet soldiers who fell in 1944-1945 in the name of the liberation of Poland from the fascist invaders."
2) reconstruction of the m-13 du heating line with a length of 3.5 kilometers;
Thanks to the concern of the President of Kazakhstan - the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces N. Nazarbayev, our army is strengthened from year to year, new models of military equipment are received into the troops, the professionalism of our military personnel is growing, "said Major General of Aviation Nurlan Ormanbetov, Commander-in-Chief of the Air Defense Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
voters came to the vote with their families, "he said.
in addition, it is planned to use modern information and communication technologies during the educational process and production, to launch educational, experimental, research and development practices.
the agenda includes many issues related to integration cooperation.
the construction of a medical facility continues in other areas.
This year, as part of the Ardaқtayy project, a number of events are planned to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War.
As A.Sekeshev noted, one of the reformist programs of Kazakhstan is legal priority, the legal situation for investors, as well as the emergence of an international financial center and an international arbitration court.
According to the head of the department for working with workers, more than 70 people work at the enterprise.
of which 41 were men and 27 girls.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the first issue on the agenda was considered on amending the decision of December 12, 2014 No. 40-225 "On the regional budget of Almaty region for 2015-2017."
Kazakhstan-2050, "stressed the need for new methods of production.
photographs are taken directly from the military archive, however, we see some of these paintings for the first time. photos are taken directly from the military archives and to be honest , some pictures , we also see for the first time .
engineering is gradually developing in Kazakhstan.	engineering is developing in kazakhstan for the first time .	0,81
The purpose of the inspection was to conduct an inspection determining the presence or absence of military service, requiring prior notification in the area (transferred, munster-nord, munster-süd landfills), the Ministry of Defense said.	the purpose of the inspection was to check presence or absence of the military activities subjected to prior notification in the specified area ( polygons bergen , munster and munster nord-süd ) , the ministry of defence reported .	0,81
any country with energy resources wants to support the sustainable development of the country.
On the initiative of the Head of State, for the first time, a 2700-kilometer railway is being built between Asia and Europe.
The year of the KHA takes place within the framework of socially significant projects and charitable events, and now we are providing assistance to families and veterans in need of assistance, "said the head of the secretariat of the Mangistau Regional Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the whole history of Kazakhstan consists in unification, unification.
The forum noted the particular relevance of the issues proposed for discussion.
general director of the center, MD, professor.
the main emphasis is placed on the coordinated interaction of personnel and the correct use of weapons and military equipment.
he recalled that a program for the modernization of the solid waste management system was approved.
The Chairman of the Committee added that it was an already drafted amendment and had now entered into force.
According to Kazteleradovanie, radio broadcasting is one of the most important media, which play a large role in the spiritual development of the public, the formation of potential stability and civil society in the economic growth of the country.
wang zhengwei also noted our country's support for the initiative of the President of China to create an economic belt of the silk road.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan also noted the obvious similarity of Kazakhstan and Malaysia in ethnic and confessional diversity, in connection with which he reported on the activities of a special socio-political institution - the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the impressions of today's meetings cannot be said. it is impossible to voice the sentiments of today 's meeting .
solar panels, LED lighting, and a pyrolysis furnace are used for heating water.
in Akmola region, the state of reservoirs is constantly monitored. akmola region are continuously monitoring the status of water bodies .
The Legal Policy Concept for 2010-2020 has been developed and implemented.
at first he drove hundreds of kilometers of the front road of Ukraine.
According to the Governor's Office, the cooperative is a tribal economy.
for example, representatives of the Ministry of Investment and Development, who provide information on the provision of public services in more than 160 names, representatives of the Ministry of Health and Social Development advise on ways to treat various diseases.
abu-dhabi plaza complex is a multifunctional building consisting of blocks of various purposes.
In 1945 he returned to his homeland, worked as a blacksmith.
Also, the head of the Tatarstan delegation praised the work of the Kazakh enterprise for the production of solar panels.
all of them will serve military duty in the ranks of the border service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
provision of land for housing construction, provision of its engineering infrastructure, preparation and adjustment of design and estimate documentation will be carried out by the Governor's Office of the region.
All the achievements of domestic manufacturers were demonstrated to the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov, not one of the participants of the exhibition was left without his attention.
we must ensure that this zone is beautiful, colored, so that it is as attractive to people as possible, "he said in the central square of the capital.
After considering the applications, 450 applications were approved for a total sown area of ​ ​ 2.7 thousand hectares worth more than 283 billion tenge.
Information received or transmitted in different years, in times far from our days, decided the directions of the battle, the fate of peoples, states, empires, "said the commander of the unit, lieutenant colonel dauren assigned.
According to the Vice Minister, pensions will be considered by separate international agreements, the concept of which is already ready.
the path is, in fact, the core of life, the source of well-being.	the road through the territory of kazakhstan is 871 km , including aktobe region - 319 km .	0,81
The board was attended by representatives of departments and ministries of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus and Armenia.	the meeting was attended by the representatives of ministries and departments of armenia , belarus , kazakhstan and russia , the business communities of the member states eaeu , the ece reported .	0,81
According to Ms. Kurbanbaeva, competitions for the grouping of hotels are currently being held in suburban cities of the capital.	according to g.kurbanbayeva , there is a contest for tour packages for guests visiting the regions bordering with astana .	0,81
The interlocutors exchanged views on the continuation of cooperation between the two countries in order to counter the global threats of the modern world.
efficiency is measured by the amount of funds invested in it and breakthroughs. the effectiveness is always measured by the amount of invested funds and impact .
Today, citizens come from other regions of the country, as well as from Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, and apply to this center to receive counselling and medical assistance.
The guests greeted the veterans with particular joy and shared their memories during the war days.
the signing of the memorandum will be carried out by other enterprises of the city.
The Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, in congratulating on behalf of the Pakistani government and on his own behalf, notes that the clear victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the presidential election and the high activity of voters unquestionably recognize the merits of his leader in the successful development of the country's statehood, as well as the high level of confidence of the people in creative and far-sighted policies.
aa. Siyyarto's first visit to Kazakhstan and the upcoming visit to Orban "occupy an important place in the history of our bilateral relations and give great impetus to the effective implementation of the joint declaration on strategic cooperation."
Completed signature sheets in support of the presidential candidate are submitted to the territorial election commissions, which within five days verify the authenticity of signatures with the participation of passport service employees, draw up the corresponding protocol and send it to the central election commission.
Kaltai Bektas - during the war years he was a signalman at the front.
According to him, partial construction was transferred to the joint-stock company "Baiterek development," the company carries out construction for 12 billion tenge.
5, intercity Western European-Western Chinese transit corridor: commissioning of a 220-meter bridge over the Syr Darya River.
In matters of uniqueness of topics, careful generalization and deep analysis of sources, we learn a lot from Kazakhstan colleagues. we should learn a lot from the kazakh colleagues on the issues non-duplicated topics , careful collection of sources and in-depth analysis of problems .
803 apartments will be allocated in Almaty.
During the talks, the heads of government discussed the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation, the official website of the Prime Minister reports.
the volume of grain in all farms is specified.	the vice minister said that  food corporation " jsc had been allocated funds for purchasing of seeds .
After the repair is completed, all 11 ethnocultural associations will be located here.
the motorcycle race was organized with the support of the Kazavtodor regional branch and the youth policy department.
we want to be the first to speak, because companies in the field of the mining complex are city-forming. companies of mining and smelting complex are city-forming .
In accordance with the party's charter, on February 26, the nomination of delegates to the next XVI Nur Otan party congresses at meetings of primary party organizations, conferences of regional and regional branches of the party will begin.
As follows from the message, the head of the presidential council in April made an appeal in Almaty to discuss topical issues of concern to the business environment on the site of the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
The musical director of the Astana Opera Theater made a proposal to hold anniversary concerts.
today, other states are trained from our cooperation.
On February 3, lectures and presentations were held at the Agrarian and Technical College named after I. Abdikarimov, Kyzylorda Medical College, University and College of the Future, as well as at the Kazakh-Turkish Lyceum.
To date, the department has registered issues of the implementation of limited houses. today 's the problem of illicit sale of networks is clearly marked in the ministry .
Today, all preparatory measures have been carried out by the judicial corps.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the project for the construction of the Sosnovy district was proposed to the head of the region when inspecting the construction of a house according to the public and private partnership project.
According to him, on the basis of the proposal of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia, the Central State Archive of Film and Sound Records of the Republic of Kazakhstan began to conduct passenger cars in the Moscow metro, decorated with the headlines "victory is the only and universal."
In addition, within the framework of the meeting, a ceremony of signing memoranda was held between the Mayor's Office of Almaty, national companies and domestic producers for the development of local content, as well as between the Governor's Office of Almaty, employers and trade unions for the preservation of jobs and stabilization of production processes.
According to yu.buluktayev.
In order to strengthen bilateral relations, it is proposed to consider the practice of mutual exchange of information between the Kazakh and Algerian foreign ministries to strengthen harmony within the framework of multilateral institutions and support each other's initiatives in the future, "the statement said.
today it is planned to work twice as many personnel and, along with modern military equipment of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to present the viewer with weapons of the Great Patriotic War.
thanks to the policy of the President of the country - the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces Nursultan Nazarbayev, today there is an opportunity to re-equip combat aviation with modern weapons and military equipment.	n.ormanbetov noted that due to the policy of president , supreme commander of the armed forces nursultan nazarbayev today 's there is the opportunity to re-start the phase of combat aircraft to modern types of weapons and military equipment .	0,81
a dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for peace and development. "
Recall that at the end of the presidential elections in the capital, a round table was held with the participation of experts - political scientists, economists, sociologists.
According to B. Musin, the level of postal carriers in Kazakhstan will grow, their work will be revised, active work is underway in this direction.
in the western regions of the country, voting will last up to 21-00 hours of Astana time.
in this regard, it is necessary to intensify domestic activities, including improving quality goods and services, studying the consumption of promising technologies.
(January 1, 1925 - July 12, 1996) - hero of the Soviet Union, commander of the 17th anti-tank separate artillery brigade of the 2nd Guards Army of the first Baltic Front, guard senior lieutenant (retired colonel).
In addition, as part of the competition, a book exhibition "The Great Brother is a Person" was held within the walls of the university, at which abay books, materials about his life in newspapers and magazines were presented.
- Exchange of information among EEU member States on access to agri-food products in the third State market, domestic and international markets, etc.;
Within the framework of the agreement, it is planned to assist in the effective implementation of the instructions of the head of state and the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, attracting investments in the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, transferring technologies and increasing labor productivity at existing enterprises, further increase in local content in mutually beneficial and profitable purchases for the state and business, as well as the effective management and development of subsoil users, special economic zones, "said the chairman of the board of the NPP Aulay Myrzakhmetov.
During the event, speakers were members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scientists, experts and politicians.
More than 120 military personnel took part in special tactical exercises, 35 pieces of communications equipment were involved.
the discovery of the economic belt of the silk road.
for which he first waved horses on the sides.
The event was attended by children of veterans who died in Volokolamsk, Consul General of the Russian Federation in Alma-Ata.
Philip also wished peace and harmony and well-being to the people of Kazakhstan.
and the manager of the public relations department of Pkkr JSC, on behalf of the Husain Sarsembayev company, presented the pupils of the "shapagat" with various sweets and toys for the great holiday.
the conformity of primary health care and patronage activities with the current European standards document will also be assessed.
The head of government also noted that Kazakhstan is ready to jointly solve the issues of unhindered movement of goods through transit transport links and the border of countries also for Lithuania and Kazakhstan.
at the end of the word a. Jaksybekov "I wish you only good luck and victories!" - wished the young teenagers.
In connection with the declaration of this year as the Year of Peace and Harmony in Turkmenistan, it is planned to hold in the near future a fair of Turkmen carpets, photo competitions of young Turkmen artists, hold friendly meetings on futsal and make a film about inter-ethnic harmony between the two countries.
Thanks to the thousands of sponsors who supported our initiative and fulfilled civil debts, "said N.Sherubayev.
veteran of the Great Patriotic War Alexey Nikolaev in the patriotic education of youth.	according to the akmola media ortalygy veteran of the great patriotic war alexey nikolaev is an example for the younger generation .	0,81
Electronic ticketing, used in major megacities of the world, has proved to be effective and acceptable.	electronic tickets already proved its effectiveness and success in major metropolitan of the world .	0,81
The issues of certification of locomotives, car repair enterprises and the introduction of a certificate of safety of railway transport in Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus were also discussed, the report said.
The Mangistau Regional Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, during all historical dates, promotes the active participation of ethnocultural associations and public and non-governmental organizations in promoting the Kazakh experience of interethnic and interfaith harmony in the region. the assembly of people of kazakhstan of mangistau district will lead to participation of ethnocultural associations , public and non-governmental organizations in promotion of kazakhstan 's experience of interethnic and interfaith harmony in all the events connected with the memorable historical dates .
At the same time, on average, over the past five years in the field of agriculture, a 5 percent increase in production has been ensured, "the minister said.
In this regard, the Ambassador also introduced the main concepts of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" on November 11 of this year.
with the involvement of a strategic investor, a new international airport will be built that meets world standards.
Taking into account the wishes and proposals, the forum participants adopted a resolution establishing ethnic and religious peace in Kazakhstan, respect for all citizens for each other.
as foreign studies show, if investments in human capital and infrastructure are invested in the crisis, then their return is much greater. according to the analysis , the foreign practice of anti-crisis programs , investment in human capital and infrastructure can have a significant revitalizing effect while low economic activity .
The state's income grew 24 times and reached 13 thousand dollars per capita, "added N. Nazarbayev.
along with the secrets of welding, I tried to explain the teaching method and effective work with students, "said the German hoiser.
Forum "on the role of women in the socio-political, socio-economic and cultural-spiritual development of independent Kazakhstan, including our region."
In turn, the German side noted the importance of such events and negotiations for the durable development of interregional cooperation and investment growth of the country.
they were created in akmola.
In conclusion, the veteran wished the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev and his relatives well-being and further prosperity of the Kazakh people.
in order to fully modernize, increase competitiveness and create sustainable development in the national economy, improve the well-being of people.
Former Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Spain M. Moratinos noted that Kazakhstani citizens have once again strengthened confidence in their president so that his country is among the most advanced and modern states of the international community.
Members of the team from the city of Kyzylorda support the decision to hold presidential elections in the country.
pioneers at first had to stand on roofs, in the basement, endure the lack of drinking water, severe frosts and 45-degree heat.
a special social section posts news from tweets.
Acting head of the administration of the city of Baikonur, Kyzylorda region a. Petrenko noted that thanks to the visionary and constructive policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, stubborn hard work and strategic thinking, Kazakhstan is the most prosperous and dynamically developing country on Earth.
May you have good health, your families survive, your lives will be filled with joy and joy, "concluded the battalion.
A historic event can be called the agreement signed on May 29 last year in the capital of the heads of state of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. signing of the treaty on eurasian economic union in may 29 , 2014 in astana is a historical event .
each of them has honest work experience for the benefit of Kazakhstan, truly worthy work for pride, "the head of state said.
among them are representatives of all types and branches of the army, including ground forces, naval forces, air defense forces.
as well as the formation of an effective academic environment of educational and scientific institutions for the development of a unified scientific, technical and educational policy, the generation of scientific and professional knowledge and the training of highly qualified personnel of the agro-industrial complex.
During the meeting, a number of issues were discussed, including: consolidation and integration of efforts into the global scientific community within the framework of priority areas, deep and effective integration of scientific and educational processes, identification of priority changes in the management of the university system in terms of ensuring independence.
President Nazarbayev in his recent address noted five institutional reforms - these are five steps of unity and stability of our state.
The head of state also noted that the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decided that the Olympiad could be held in two cities.
the value of goods of domestic producers turned out to be 20-25% cheaper than market prices.
Construction start dates and investment volume have not yet been announced.
Director of Alekri LLP Alexander familiarized the head of the region with the production of eggs of the enterprise.
In the period from 2014 to 2020, it is planned to privatize 106 assets of the fund.
Deputy Director of the CIS Affairs Department of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Vladimir Sprinchan, shared his opinion.
in the sector of metallurgy, construction and food industry there is a positive trend (last year - 93.1%).
I believe that Kazakhstan treats Russia and Ukraine equally.
The event was attended by deputies of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Russian Duma, representatives of public and veteran organizations, academic associations, youth organizations, leading experts of Kazakhstan and Russia, well-known public and state figures.
on this day we take care of loved ones, give joy and happiness to the environment.
brought up in a boarding school, March 8, 1942 went to the front.
Restoration work is also underway on the section of the Almat-Khorgos highway with loans issued by world banks.
Thus, in 2014, in accordance with the reconstruction and capital repair plan, 12.8 km of heating networks worth 3.02 billion tenge were replaced.
The press conference will be attended by a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a member of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development of the Asymma of Bimendin and a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a member of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development of the Gulmir Isimbayev.
The President of Uzbekistan expressed confidence that the comprehensive development and strengthening of bilateral relations based on centuries-old traditional friendship, good-neighbourliness and mutual respect will further serve the interests of the peoples of the two countries, preserving peace and stability in the region.
the program consists of three stages and is prepared on the basis of an examination of existing trainings and seminars.
he emphasized the importance of coordinated joint activities of state and authorized bodies in this direction.
The Republic of Tajikistan fully agrees and supports all issues on the agenda. tajikistan is in full agreement and support of the agenda .
Today, the meat processing complex has begun its work, capable of producing up to 5 thousand tons of frozen lacquer meat per year. meat-processing complex with capacity up to 5000 tons of chilled lamb a year is now set to work .
In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises will be provided with advisory assistance for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
zero duty on customs duties in relation to blood stands was established until April 19, 2017. coronary stents are marked in hs eaec , and against them a zero rate of import duty is fixed until 19 april 2017 .
39 and 40 per cent of the pre-approved budget remain unchanged in the social sphere in 4 areas. in the social sector the share of spending in four directions remains generally unchanged - 39-40 % , that is , at the level of the originally approved budget .
the state provides public orders for private kindergartens, provides some assistance in paying the salaries of workers and utilities.
and participation in elections is an indicator of citizens' confidence in the State.
the launch of the workshop will increase production volumes and create new jobs.
During the discussion, the parties will pay special attention to improving mutual trade and trade turnover of the EAEU member states, deepening cooperation in the field of macroeconomic monetary and financial policy, supporting exports, improving customs regulation of the EAEU.
The Head of State thanked the Prime Minister of Lithuania for participating in the forum organized in response to the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-2009.
Thus, the agreement will allow the EAEU countries to enter new markets and reach bilateral beneficial benefits.
thus, under approved contracts of 7,080 financial leases, 9,000 pieces of equipment are subject to subsidization.
By the end of this year, a modern building with a parking lot and a pavilion will be built here.
a bright, comfortable building has all the necessary branches, where villagers provide qualified medical care.
the editors of the newspaper paid special attention to Kazakh-Turkish trade and economic cooperation, noting the role of Kazakh-Turkish joint companies and firms operating in Kazakhstan.
of which 144 are from the CIS observer mission, 5 from the Shu observer mission, as well as three observers from the Greek republic and one from the German federal republic, the report said.
in particular, B. Saparbayev visited the Chemical and Mechanical College, where he got acquainted with the development of the system of vocational education.
Business representatives reported difficulties in certifying fire safety buildings, bringing to administrative responsibility for non-compliance with publicly available standards and allocating land from the capital. entrepreneurs especially were interested in certification of fire safety , administrative punishments for non-compliance with established norms , and also complexity with allocation of the land plots in the capital .
According to the Governor's Office, appropriate measures for the introduction of nano- and biotechnology in cement production are being considered.
along with the modern armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, armies and weapons of the Great Patriotic War were demonstrated.
As the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, in order to confidently look to the future, it is necessary to educate people and young people. as the president of our country noted today , we are to make plans for an eternity , in order to educate the people , it is necessary to educate the younger generation .
Given current economic developments, the increase in transit volume is very important. taking into consideration the current economic situation , obtaining additional transit volumes is important for all economic players of the eurasian continent .
The district was formed on June 4, 2007 on behalf of the Head of State.
its total reserve is 32.4 billion cubic meters. l.
the project would then be donated to the State.
the people waited for hours for queues to vote.
at the meeting, the chairman of the state revenue committee spoke.
Therefore, the "Nұrly zhol" program is a long-conceived project that will continue for several generations, "he said. Nazarbayev.
Pavlodar region is not only an industrial zone, but also a special region in the field of culture and science, "the head of the museum shared.
According to the professor, tests were carried out at the University of Kazbs and are designed for consumable thermal energy.
a large tourist flow requires strengthening the legal framework in all areas of legal cooperation.
In your speech at the ceremony of honor, you launched popular reforms, which are the main component of creating a modern state for all of us, "the statement said.
The meeting heard the workplans of the enterprises for the current year and how to implement them. the participants of the meeting listened to the plans of the enterprises for 2015 , problems and their solutions .
we are making the necessary efforts to make the shymkent a city with a population of more than a million people. we make the necessary efforts that shymkent will become a megalopolis .
At the opening of the conference, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was presented to the staff and participants of the clinic. a congratulatory letter on behalf of Abdykalikova was read out.
the Memorial Book and the East Kazakhstan Encyclopedia for Afghan war veterans were also presented.
independence is the great unity of the people, the integrity of their culture and history, N. Nazarbayev said.
development of the situation in Russia and Europe.
currently, the Latin American, Arab world is talking about the introduction of its regional currency, from which it follows the desire to reduce the influence of the dollar.
in accordance with the Constitution and the instructions of the Head of State, the Attorney General's Office shall take all necessary measures to ensure the legality of the electoral process during the holding and organization of early presidential elections.
more than 5,000 military personnel, about 220 units of modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aviation equipment will take part in the large-scale parade.
the parties discussed the current situation in the world economy, the risks that arose and the possibility of their intervention.
Recall that the exercises of the "steppe eagle" are aimed at achieving interoperability of the "kazbrig" as part of a multinational force in peacekeeping operations.
In addition, the Serbian Ministry of Foreign Affairs agreed to open an honorary consulate and diplomatic mission of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Belgrade.
During the first phase, the military process of operations at the company and decision-making level is being worked out.
The President of Italy wished Nursultan Nazarbayev and the whole country well-being.
During the discussions, the head of the Kazakh delegation expressed Kazakhstan's position on this issue to the participants of the meeting, emphasizing, first of all, the importance of combating the causes and factors that give rise to terrorism and religious extremism.
seven manufacturers and suppliers were drawn from this zone, with whom contracts were signed for the supply of local goods for the construction of the exhibition.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the flexible meeting devoted to strengthening tolerance in society and countering terrorism, the delegations of the CIS member states exchanged views on a wide range of topical issues on the international agenda.
housing construction will be carried out at the expense of the regional budget on the principle of public-private partnership.
Therefore, in the next 4 years, the reconstruction of 5 thousand km of roads and airports, bridges will be carried out, "said the leader of the nation.
According to the speaker of the meeting, the presence of international observers increases the importance of the elections, increases confidence and contributes to ensuring transparency and transparency.
In addition, B. Saparbayev noted the importance of strengthening the preventive work of employers to comply with the requirements in the field of safety and labor protection and prevent industrial injuries in enterprises.
Members of the Association of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan noted that the voting results testify to the high authority and recognition of the work of the head of state before compatriots, as well as success in solving urgent problems of development of Kazakhstan.
the head of the educational department accepted all citizens' appeals, and the results of their decisions will be communicated to the applicants within the established time frame.
each of us knows that you start your career with a simple worker on a Kazakh magnet. each of us knows that your career has begun as a simple worker on kazakhstan magnitogorsk .
the implemented project is a pilot project in the North Kazakhstan region.
23,971 objects worth 161.3 billion tenge were legalized.
He also informed the guests about the legislative work of the meeting, in particular, about legislative work on the development of the tourism cluster, diversification of the economy of Kazakhstan, and the establishment of a favorable investment climate.
3780 of them died on the fronts, 3252 returned to the shanyrak and participated in the work, "the report said.
the main value of Kazakhstan, its wealth and strategic priority is the diversity of the people.
the personnel of the military contingent who arrived on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan fulfilled their duties with distinction.
students had to take into account the harsh continental climatic conditions and regional characteristics of the capital in their work.
a successful project in two years "reached about 25,000 people, in which 240 large employers of the country are involved.
improvement of the system of selection and placement of personnel, their vocational training and development of a model of behavioural ethics of citizens.
in maternity hospitals, perinatal centers, children's departments of hospitals and polyclinics, information and educational materials are distributed, lectures are given on the benefits of immunoprophylaxis.
The sides noted the high level of Kazakh-Estonian relations and the potential of relations between the two countries.
the parties noted the high level of political dialogue and fruitful cooperation within the framework of international organizations.
after the entry into force of treaties, both countries will have legal grounds for providing mutual legal assistance, protecting the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, "said A. Daulbaev.
In 39, he was transferred to the reserve, but did not return to his homeland in Kazakhstan, having surrendered military service in the Komi Republic.
they inherited orders and medals, books, drawings and other things of veteran ancestors.
At the same time, Kazakhstan produces a large amount of energy from the usual energy sources, "said the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
With regard to the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, the Government of Kazakhstan has decided to amend certain legislative acts on security in the conduct of sporting events, cultural events and other mass events. with regard to the mandate of the special rapporteur on the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association it was noted that the government of kazakhstan decided to develop a draft law on amendments to some legislative acts on safety during the sports , cultural , entertainment and other mass activities .
The bill provides for amendments to the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as amendments to the Criminal Executive Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the health system and public health," the code on administrative offenses.
at the same time, he noted that representatives of the Kazakh association of entrepreneurs "Kazka" will take part in the competition.
also checking the readiness of the younger generation to enter higher military educational institutions of Kazakhstan.
Please note that the potential consumers of transformers are large oil and gas companies, energy enterprises and the railway.
According to the author, the roots of embroidery lie deep.
this work is already yielding results.
In addition, the participants of the event were addressed by the former Permanent Representative of Austria to the Eidu and the Geneva couple Wolfgang Petrich and the Executive President of Austrian-Kazakh Society Gabriel Lanski.
Also, within the framework of the agreement on the training of military personnel for the States parties to the Collective Security Treaty Organization, military personnel of Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia are trained in higher educational institutions of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Famous songs of the war years sounded for the guests of the evening, and familiar images were shown on the stage.
they will be held collectively accountable for their mistakes.
such joint training sessions are held for the first time, in the future it is planned to organize this event annually.
Having considered in the second reading the bill on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of natural monopolies and regulated markets, senators sent a document to the meeting with amendments.
The performance, which lasted minutes, was visited by the personnel of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, members of their families and children.
Then an expanded meeting of the regional council of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Kyzylorda region was held with the participation of the chairman of the Atameken presidium timur kulibayev.
and ratifying the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Water Channels and International Lakes; Kazakhstan and the World Organization for Animal Health are planning to consider bills on the ratification of an agreement on the creation of a subregional coordination office of the World Organization for Animal Health on foot-and-mouth disease in Astana.
among them are firefighters, doctors, soldiers of the National Guard, representatives of the Ministry of Defense and financial police officers.
As the head of state noted, it is necessary to increase the role of public councils at state bodies and akimats. as the president noted , it is important to strengthen the role of community councils in the state bodies and the governor .
As part of the project, a production version will be developed, a package of design documents will be developed and aimed at the development of Egov production.
part of the draft legislative changes should be developed before the September session of the parliament, which will positively affect the timely implementation of the tasks set, "the head of state said.
at the same time, I want to note the honored trainers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, such as Vladimir suburban, strong myrzhukpayev, aliyah tusupbekova.
Recall that in the capital, chaired by party leader N. Nazarbayev, the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party is being held.
- We are ready to gradually expand our production and now work with large customers in large volumes.
And today's forum will give impetus to work in this direction, will increase bilateral cooperation and strengthen business ties, "said the head of the region.
for active participation in this project, all districts of the region were awarded letters of thanks.
the adoption of these international agreements will contribute to decent protection of intellectual property rights, stimulating creative activities, the head of the department said.
The leadership of Cruzeiro FC announced that Kazakhstan has reached an agreement on participation in tournaments of various levels of Brazil, including the international generation as a Kazakhstan group, with other football clubs and foreign federations.
Today, working with the general staff, we are in a situation where the foreign army and the national guard are selected only from servicemen of military service of the second degree of health.
The purpose of the event is to identify the best tank crews of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and select participants in the World Tank Biathlon Championship at the Alabino training ground near Moscow in August this year, "the Ministry of Defense said.
awarded the team of the republican specialized physics and mathematics secondary school named after Zhautikov.
The event was attended by the leadership of the Shu, ambassadors and permanent representatives of the member states of the organization and employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China.
I, as a representative of the Dargin nation, am sincerely grateful to my Kazakh brothers on behalf of the people, "said Palimat Chupalayeva.
According to representatives of the akimat, such an agricultural exhibition will be held twice a year.
It should be noted that today from 7.00 am, the campaign for presidential elections has started throughout Kazakhstan.
in addition, the agriculture, tourism and sports, housing and communal services and social facilities were not neglected.
the bill was prepared in compliance with all necessary regulatory procedures, including an expanded meeting of the General Plan and was actively discussed by deputies when it was adopted, "the senator said.
According to the NPP, as a result of the two-day program, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Balkh region and the Yuko-kp, a number of contracts on trade were signed.
The mechanisms of support for this industry, voiced by the head of state, will certainly have a positive impact on the further development, "said M.Pap.
In particular, the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Improvement of the Special Economic Zone" provides for the supply of agricultural products with a zero rate.
In general, along with the modern appearance of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, army and weapons of the Great Patriotic War were demonstrated at the parade.
More than 100 thousand of our compatriots were awarded the Orders of Glory.
the parties discussed the commissioning of the Makinsky poultry farm in the Bulandynsky district, "the report said.
this means that the people of Kazakhstan are not indifferent to the elections.
In addition, at the expense of funds allocated from the local budget, 5 residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 17.9 thousand square meters were built.
the increase in road transport will positively affect the business connection and activity of the region's economy and will improve the living conditions of the population, new jobs will be created.
trade between Alma-Ata and Macedonia is growing at a good pace.
Last year, dairy production grew in several names.
According to the results of the negotiations, in order to establish direct ties between entrepreneurs of the two countries, the Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan with. Agreements were reached on the visit of Yesimbekov to Bucharest this year and the holding of a business forum of business circles of Kazakhstan and Romania.
all budget and consolidated financial statements, results of external financial audit, results of evaluation of effectiveness of state policy, results of public assessment of quality of public services, report on execution of national and local budgets.
40 Hero of the Soviet Union, winner of the Order of Glory 6.
because the shanyrak on our coat of arms is a symbol of unity, and without the warmth of the shanyrak, its future.
innovators should be universally supported and serve as an example for the country, "said the head of state.
Thanks to investments in the MZHS, the center is equipped with modern equipment that allows you to demonstrate a wide range of health services, including a mud clinic, hirudotherapy, a spa, sports complexes and others.
As M. Susainov noted, the main goal of the program is to increase the commercial potential of the sphere of natural monopolies.
the festival is organized by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the Department of Internal Policy reported.
The best sports zones have been determined: holders of these nominations - the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of Pavlodar, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan regions.
Today, also in the first reading, the bill "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Restricting State Participation in Entrepreneurial Activities" was considered.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the Voluntary Society of Mercy Foundation is engaged in such an important social direction as helping children with serious illnesses, in this matter it needs the support of the whole society.
now Alexander Vasilievich is 82 years old.
The main migration exchange of the city was due to interregional migration: 31,611 people arrived in January-November 2014, 14,932 people left.
the main goal of the competition is to intensify military-scientific work in the armed forces of the CIS member states as a factor in the further development of multilateral mutual cooperation of the CIS member states, improving the quality of training officers in the education and unification of servicemen of friendly armies based on the preservation and reproduction of historical and cultural traditions.
Because it is agriculture that gives economic impetus, we know better than our historical experience, "the deputy added.
we always feel care for the Motherland, thanks to your support.
Member of the House of Lords of the Parliament of Great Britain M.Dobbs expressed hope that the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the presidential elections in the future will ensure a prosperous life for the Kazakh people and mark the beginning of an era of prosperity and new achievements of our country.
essays in Russian, Kazakh or English.
I am sure that you continue to contribute to the expansion and deepening of cooperation between our countries and peoples. i am confident that you 'll continue to contribute to the expansion and deepening of cooperation between our countries and peoples .
countries may be part of different blocs, but this does not interfere with wide interaction in the modern world. countries could form different blocks but this doesn 't affect worldwide interaction .
Compared to the total number of LLP at the beginning of this year, their share increased by 13.7 percentage points.
entrepreneurship is for them one of the tools for raising the social level.
On its basis, a road map for the development of tourism in East Kazakhstan region is being developed.
the social consequences of this patient and his disability lead to great economic difficulties.
2015-2019 for inclusion in the Republican industrialization map 2015-2022 23 projects were submitted with the implementation date.
We should allow Kazakhstani enterprises to use their products, "- said T. Yakovlev.
UNT is provided by specially trained representatives from the Ministry of Education and Science.
For the first time in the history of the CIS, talented youth managed to get an education at the expense of the state in the best foreign universities, "said the chairman of the association's council.
In general, in each country, health regulatory measures have their own characteristics. in every country , normative regulation of health care is characterized by its own features .
According to him, 80 companies and 9 concortiums were registered for the competition announced for this project.
Currently, 23.7 thousand people are engaged in scientific research in Kazakhstan.
he also expressed readiness to continue cooperation in the framework of various initiatives in which our country is also involved.
Strengthening the qualifications of candidates for judicial posts. it is necessary to tighten the eligibility requirements for candidates for judgeships .
to date, the courts of the republic in the reporting period of the first quarter of this year worked in the conditions of updating criminal and criminal procedure legislation.
Today in the region there are fattening grounds for 17,000 heads, the load is 75%.
It is expected that the shooting of the cartoon will end within three years.
The Minister also noted that the championship is special, and will contribute not only to solving issues of economic growth of the country, increasing the prestige of working professions, but also to solving important problems of education and education, such as revealing the potential and individual qualities of each person.
Also, 6.2 million tons of cargo were transported by rail.
among them - state regulation of production and circulation of certain types of petroleum products, as well as ratification of the agreement between Kazakhstan and Lithuania on readmission of people.
the exposition was based on photographic materials prepared by these embassies regarding the role of the countries of the former USSR in the liberation of the Soviet Union and European states from fascist invaders, the creation of an anti-Hitler coalition and the interaction of the allies during the war.
The meeting of the Committee of Parliamentary Cooperation of Kazakhstan-eu has become an important platform for discussing the achieved achievements of integration and issues requiring special attention.
then, having successfully passed the tests, the pupils received certificates of completion of the courses and received the right to receive a military ticket.
The event was attended by the Co-Chair of the Kazakh side, Deputy Chairman of the Kazakhstan Association of Organizations of the Oil and Gas and Energy Complex "kazenergy" zhanbolat Sarsen, Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan Sabyr Yesimbekov, as well as representatives of a number of Kazakhstani companies.
In addition, during the meeting, draft documents were approved, including a program of cooperation to strengthen border security on the external border for 2016-2020, an agreement on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and response, regulations on information integration on a unified system of accounting for citizens and stateless persons of third countries who entered the territory of CIS member states, etc.
The metropolitan zone of the Russian Orthodox Church in Kazakhstan, as well as other Christian communities, makes a significant contribution to maintaining peace and tranquillity, maintaining stability.
at the same time a. Dzhaksybekov instructed to develop a set of measures to resolve these issues as soon as possible, "the report said.
the elections were very active, especially on the part of young people.
In particular, the statement of the Nur Otan party states that the initiative of the Ha Council is the right step in the interests of the country.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the event was attended by representatives of Swiss business circles interested in expanding the partnership and entering new markets.
In his speech, the head of the Department of Justice of Akmola region a.i. Dermanovsky noted that "all Kazakhstanis are children of the same homeland.
I congratulate you with all my heart on the bright holiday - March! i heartily congratulate you on the bright holiday nauryz !
tanks (bmpt), camase cars, other wheeled and tracked equipment, as well as combat vehicles were brought in on the railway platform of the capital, the report said.
G. Abdykalikova noted that at this stage it is important to ensure greater involvement of women in the implementation of the projects of the State Program for Infrastructure Development "Nұrly Zhol" for 2015-2019.
According to the conclusion of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development, the bill will be supplemented to improve drug policy.
In their speeches, they noted that on behalf of the head of state, the country was left without a reduction in monthly wages, pensions and benefits.
The task of the first five-year plan was to diversify the structure of the economy, building more factories. the task of the first five-year plan is to build more factories and diversify the economy .
m.zarif conveyed to the ambassador the greeting of the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran h. ruhani
by the end of the term, about 60 percent of the accumulated amount will have the investor's own funds, 25 percent - bank rewards, another 17 percent - state rewards.
Activities to strengthen cultural and business communication took place during the cultural days of the city of Aktau in the rattlesnake, dead end and mangistau regions.
The head of the Center for the Study of Interethnic and Interfaith Relations of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan will speak during the panel session. Sadvakasova.
We assume that about 1 million people will take part in all 29 train stations, "said N. Alashnikov.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that women tend to seek reliable support in their homeland, and do not cease to strive for flawlessness even after its discovery.
accelerated growth and export growth from the central and western provinces of China will contribute to the achievement of our goals, "said A. Mamin.
the condition of medical facilities in the village is improving, clubs are being built again.
In addition, the issue of creating Kazakh-Turkish industrial zones is being considered.
I sincerely congratulate you on the holiday of unity of the people of Kazakhstan! " said the head of the region.
Also, when designing the building, students used high-efficiency construction technology developed by saint-gobain together with the institute of a passive house in darmstadt, called a "comfortable house with many opportunities."
Orkitbay told the old servicemen about the burden of war and the heroism of our soldiers who donated for the freedom of future generations.
Mr. Guido hertz, in turn, praised the Academy's achievements in recent years in the field of training civil service personnel and conducting modern scientific research on topical issues of public service, law enforcement and diplomacy.
therefore, the need to adopt the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on peacemaking shows the time itself.
the role of the people in preserving independence, sovereignty, the ability to maintain unity. "
The cultural worker of the district prepared all the offices, connected a system library and an Internet network.
support measures under the Business Roadmap 2020 program cover all areas.
The solemn event for the meeting of the Taezhan symbol was held as a theatrical performance.
It is expected that by the end of the year these centers will be opened in all districts of Zhambyl region.
competitive work came from small villages and large cities in all regions of Kazakhstan.
more than 140 books and 13 documents.
according to him, he wanted to enter graduate school, and at that time the rating of the intelligentsia was high.
in particular, the president emphasized that "legally oblige enterprises to undergo production practice, starting from the second year."
In addition to the election commissions of Almaty region, representatives of political parties and public associations, proxies of candidates for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, observers, representatives of the media and interested state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan were invited as participants in this event, "the statement said.
According to representatives of the department, having written the book, the authors tried to demonstrate the participation of Kazakhstanis in the Great Patriotic War as widely as possible, that is, to achieve a significant contribution to the great victory of our country.
In addition, the collection of water heating boilers and one steam boiler house was completed.
In order to provide the population with safe and high-quality medicines and bring them into compliance with European requirements, from March 17, 2014, state registration of foreign medicines not produced under gmp conditions was prohibited.
As Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov noted, food security actually represents the state of not only food production, but also the development of the economy as a whole.
Be happy that you will never have laughter, peace of mind in your family. the state care about women as the moral principles and ethical values of the country depend on woman , " the kazakh leader noted .
That is, understandable information in open and free form will be provided through a social network, "said Dmitry Schutz.
Also, the rose represented the Dynamo school and the school of higher sportsmanship.
to solve this problem, the bill provides for the introduction of the institution of preliminary consideration of technical characteristics.	following the analyses , the law simplifies qualification standards for contest entries , according to mr. sultanov .	0,82
In January-February this year, 39.5 thousand square meters of individual and commercial housing were commissioned.	in january-february 2015 39.5 thousand square meters of individual and commercial property have been introduced .	0,82
Unfortunately, unemployment among women remains the same, "he said.
The President of Montenegro noted the gradual expansion of relations between the two countries and the strengthening of friendly relations.
During the opening of the photo exhibition, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in East Kazakhstan region, chairman of the ridder branch of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs V. Rusin.
Festive events will be held on May 7 in the capital, and on May 9 cultural programs will be organized on the square.
R. Zhoshybayev informed the interlocutor about the preparations for the exhibition in the capital and presented on behalf of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov a letter of invitation to the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway Erna Solberg.
social spheres, legal, medical, public services, business and agriculture, "said Rakhymbek Amirzhanov, deputy akim of Mangistau region.
accept my wishes for the further success of your high and responsible activities, "the telegram says.
plant employees spoke about the actual excess of industrial policy and thanked for efforts to improve the well-being of the population and ensure stability in the country.
The Deputy Prime Minister also visited the "flounder" resting place, where a children's educational and health center for 100 places is located.
3.9% of investments were allocated to real estate, that is, 745.4 million tenge.
However, according to the bill, it is necessary to create a market council in order to ensure transparency of relations in the electricity market.
new machines are being installed at the machine-building plant in Karaganda, which require highly qualified specialists who equally own a number of industries, "he added.
The main objectives of the bill are to ensure the accessibility of services and facilities for persons with disabilities and other small mobile groups, to improve the mechanism for the provision of rehabilitation services, to create equal conditions for life and integration into society for persons with disabilities.
Since the beginning of the program, more than 8 thousand jobs have been saved, more than 4 thousand new jobs have been created, "the Mayor said.
Therefore, at the end of December, the head of state took active measures to establish peace. that is why the head of state in late december made extensive efforts to lobby the world .
society in Kazakhstan is ripe, it has survived many stages and has achieved what can make a conscious and correct choice. kazakhstan society has grown up ; it has gone through many stages of development and has become a society that is willing to make a wise choice .
today, the company's priority is to attract foreign investors.
Currently, there are 343 war veterans in the region, more than 20 thousand rear workers.
cadets of the military institute of the ground forces had the opportunity to take part in a military parade on Red Square in Moscow.
an electronic system for the register of goods and services and works used by subsoil resources and their producers in the course of operations has been established for such purposes.
The youngest participant of the Armenian ethnocultural center - the humir of Tokhtakhunov from the Tatar-Bashkir center "morning" with the song "16 girls" was awarded great audience sympathy.
Following the meeting bakytzhan sagintayev instructed to submit to the government by June 1 information on the prosecution of persons obstructing the implementation of measures under the program documents.
The meeting participants considered the preparation of events planned for this year, as well as the results of the meeting of experts on the development of the draft Shu Development Strategy until 2025 and the expansion of the organization, the department said.
to date, this is very important for improving the knowledge and skills of students, with work experience, conducting research with their unification.
The Governor of the region greeted the war veteran Kochergan Alimbayev.
your concern for a simple teacher, an athlete, a woman mother, a veteran aksakal demonstrated to all of us an example of love for humanity, wisdom and care for people, for our common history. your sensitive approach showed an example of humanity , wisdom and respect for people , for our common history .
in addition, a charity event "Priceless Wealth" - "bestseller," organized by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, will be organized.
The document was signed by Chairman of Kazatomprom JSC Nurlan Kapparov and Governor of South Kazakhstan region Askar Myrzakhmetov, the national company reported.
It is worth noting that the oil and gas complex makes a significant contribution to the socio-economic development of our state, and in some regions this industry is the locomotive of the state economy.
In turn, the Senior Vice Minister of Education, Science, Culture, Sports and Technology of Japan expressed readiness to provide industrial giants of his country with communication with Kazakh institutions.
at the same time, the Belgian observer congratulated Kazakhstani society on such a high attitude towards democracy and electoral processes.
The Head of State noted the importance of the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
strip length, soil strength, surface reliefs, weather conditions, especially precipitation, as well as the absence of a label and weight of the load.
at the time of construction, it will cover more than 1,500 jobs.
Also, a group of residents of Almaty expressed their support and expressed confidence that the visionary policy of the head of state will continue for the benefit of the entire people of Kazakhstan.
education is a key aspect. education is one of the key aspects .
Voting will last until 20:00 local time.
this facility, which uses alternative energy sources, is the first solar power plant in central Asia with a capacity of 50 megawatts.
The program creates conditions for quality education of the population.
this is 15% more than in the same period last year.
what is independence?
34.3 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
According to him, today it is enough to submit an application to the Department of Justice.
including energy-saving lamps, topography, safflower oil used in perfumes, disposable medical products, sodium hexametaphosphate, mensodium cyanide.
taking into account the fact that there were 7 long-term contracts for the supply of 471 types of medicines, a total of 20 contracts are valid with 18 domestic manufacturers for a period of 7 years.
the main goal is to ensure uninterrupted work in the production complex and maintain the necessary volume of production, take into account the needs of the city's population and prevent social conflict, preserve the unity and peace of families.
Deputy Prime Minister also touched upon some issues of social and economic development of Zhambyl region.
The bill is designed to improve the investment climate, ensure open and effective relations between electricity industry entities, improve electricity control and supervision. it 's necessary to develop the bill because there is a need to improve the investment climate , to ensure transparent and efficient relationship between the subjects of the electricity market , to advance the electricity control and supervision .
The Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina M.ivanich drew attention to the fact that the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev testifies to the high confidence of the people in connection with the effective management of the country.
According to him, at the beginning of this year the industry produced 246.9 billion tenge of products with an increase of 0.5%.
we still have to build a new refinery.
Today, the capabilities of this project are highly appreciated by representatives of hp.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the amount of housing assistance for 3,637 families amounted to 55.5 million tenge.
Congratulating those gathered on the completion of the construction of new stations, the President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of the metro to overcome the ground traffic flow in the metropolis.
for this, everything must be ready, the main thing is a very interesting architectural appearance.
currently, the capacity of the main building of the factory is 1 million 200 thousand tons of ore per year.
this is not a distinctive property, but on the contrary, should become a unifying basis, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Council of Europe parliamentarians will discuss the results of monitoring on observation missions for parliamentary elections in Tunisia and Moldova, humanitarian shocks in Ukraine, issues of immigration and disability, intolerance and discrimination, protection of freedom of the media in Europe.
Taraz, which has existed for more than two thousand years, is one of the historical centers of our country.
According to the results of the competition, the best family in the region was determined, and two families were selected.
Today's event made a special impression on me, because the parents of all these chordans are war veterans.
The European Union continues to be a strategically important partner of the Eurasian Economic Union, "said Vladimir Khristenko.
As part of the action, Mayor of Tasmaganbetov on behalf of the Head of State congratulated veterans on the coming New Year.
he noted that these elections are held in a special order.
Based on the results of the training, the training and practical skills of battalion (division) commanders in the performance of official duties and the compliance of the commander of each battalion (division) with professional qualifications are evaluated.
if the party cooperates closely in this direction with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the necessary results will be achieved.
the formation of the center as a financial hub for the CIS countries, as well as all regions of western and central Asia.
As part of this event, an exhibition on the good deeds of all educational institutions aimed at an "eternal country" will be organized as part of the "Nұrly zhol - way to the future" program.
the Bangladeshi people admire your principled and constructive leadership. the people of bangladesh admires your dynamic and constructive leadership .
Due to the reduction of tariffs in roaming, Kazakhstan subscribers will save 2.2 billion tenge.
we succeeded, we were in the working process, everything was included in life.
This year, children from remote areas, such as dancing, poor people, mughalzhar, vil, took part in Aktobe.
The forum also discussed the challenges and opportunities for further increasing the economic activity of women in the context of new world trends.
According to information distributed by the management, among these residential buildings are private and commercial houses provided on loan through the housing savings system, leased to citizens in line with local executive bodies, leased to young families for subsequent redemption, as well as through the joint-stock company Kazakhstan Credit Company.
with a president like you, it is easier for us, we will overcome all the difficulties of the crisis period.
Recall that from June 2 to 8, 2015 in the Republic of Kazakhstan a single national test is carried out.
the parties discussed the similar positions of the capital and Cairo on international and regional problems and the latest events of international extremism and terrorism taking place in the middle east.
nine out of ten shots were fired at the enemy on our soil.
the advantage of the project is to provide the city with high-quality and certified and accessible products during the year.
He noted that according to the resolution, on the basis of the protocols of the regional, capital and Almaty city election commissions, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev was registered by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to whom the corresponding certificate was handed over.
elections are an important phenomenon in a democratic society and participation in them is the duty of every citizen. elections are one of the most important manifestations of democracy , and the participation of every citizen in this process will decide what the future of our country will be .
the plant produces 15 tons of sodium cyanide and 5 thousand tons of ammonium sulfate per year.
in particular, it is planned to create mammological, gastroenterological, outpatient and ophthalmic centers, to create centers for monitoring men's health and family life expectancy.
The chief adviser to the president also took part in the conference, noting the historical legacy of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to raise issues of peace and harmony not only within the country, but also at the regional and world levels.
In order to ensure the competitiveness of Kazakhstan and its integration with the Khalkar scientific and educational community, create an effective system of innovative development of the country's agro-industrial complex, three universities of the republic were transferred to the ministry: ak, "Kazakh National Agricultural University named after Seifullin," RGP "West Kazakhstan Agrarian and Technical University named after Zhangir Khan."
A.Pavlov noted that Kazakhstani banks today experience the influence of external factors and the consequences of instability in world markets.
According to the results of the committee, the bill was prepared in order to form an effective model of state youth policy aimed at promoting the socio-economic development of youth, as well as creating conditions for the active participation of young citizens in the socio-political life of the state.
after congratulations, the Governor of the region and the veteran of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the chairman of the branch of the republican public association "Association of Karistov of Kazakhstan" raised the flag of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
while watching the championship among students at the University of London named after St. Mary, i. the meeting of the executive director of the Weightlifting Federation of Great Britain with the head coach took place, the report said.
The event was attended by students of universities, colleges of Kokshetau.
The draft law has been drafted in order to bring the norms of national legislation into line with signed and ratified international agreements that create the negotiating legal framework of the customs union.	the draft law is oriented for bringing the provisions of the national legislation in the sphere of foreign trade in compliance with the signed and ratified international agreements , in particular the treaty framework of the customs union and the treaty on the eurasian economic union .	0,83
therefore, it is necessary to study this issue in detail and work out a plan, "said B. Saparbayev.
then two grenades fire at two moving targets - a tank and an armored personnel carrier.
The creation of the Internet portal "map of criminal offense" on the basis of the national information system "Map of criminal offense."
The President of Ukraine thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his great personal contribution to the advancement of the process of peaceful settlement of the conflict in southeastern Ukraine.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Yeraly togzhanov on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan awarded the jubilee medal "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" the Chairman of the Assembly of People of Sko, akim sko erik sultans and 43 North Kazakhstan residents.
I'm not saying that the regional court needs to be divided into two parts: the court of appeal and the court of cassation, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Kazakh diplomat informed the Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of Thailand about the existing socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the concept of the transition of Kazakhstan to a green economy, readiness for the international specialized exhibition expo 2017, paying special attention to the basic principles of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
through the electronic queue system, we will see how many people are in queues in the branches, and we will be able to act in this direction, "said the chairman of the board.
these are operators, technologists and oil rig drillers.
In recent years, in the framework of these programs, socially significant facilities have been created in our region and created for the benefit of the country, "said J. Omar.
there will be direct work with the release, personnel for the theater, philharmonic society, concert organizations will be prepared, "said A. Musakozhaev.
According to him, orders are received on these smartphones, which save time.
Akims have been given certain instructions, monitoring of their implementation has been announced, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
The registration of observers of foreign states and international organizations will continue until April 20, 2015.
the videoconference considers the requirements for the establishment of trademarks arising from the use of similar trademarks, "Soviet trademarks," the function of distinguishing homogeneous goods, meeting similar trademarks on the market and designating a trademark.
Cultural events will also be organized, performances of Kvn teams will be shown, as well as a concert of Kazakh art historians.
By order of the Chairman of the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 16/od dated January 26, 2015, the following main elements of the high-precision satellite navigation system were put into operation:
According to the Vice Minister, eao has sufficient prerequisites to become a global economic project of a large regional type, capable of influencing world economic and political processes during its development, expansion and deepening of integration.
this is the fourth agreement between the fund and Fig. "
It is necessary to clean the Yesil, Akbulak, Sarybulak river bed on the territory of the industrial park and Zheo-2 to ensure safe melting and water flow, "the mayor of the capital said.
the facility can produce 150 megawatts of electricity per day.
the agricultural sector is the basis of the region's economy, its share is 24% of the gross regional product, "said the head of the region, Erik Sultanov.
Today, the war veteran has two sons, who today have neither pensioners, nor grandchildren, nor great-grandchildren, "said the batyr.
The Ministry of National Economy, together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the expert group, carried out an audit of the requirements for private entrepreneurs to be checked in the exercise of state control and supervision.	speaking during the briefing deputy minister of national economy timur zhaksylykov has informed the ministry of national economy and the national chamber of entrepreneurs audited requirements while making amendments and additions to the draft law  on measures for the implementation of the law of the republic of kazakhstan on radical improvement of business . "
The main thing that young people need is information. information is the main thing that is needed for the young people .
The design capacity of the greenhouse is 12 thousand pieces of rose per day, and roses - 5 million pieces per year.
submission of the document to the collegiate board in March of this year.
Abdikalikova expressed confidence that cultural, literary and artistic figures will take an active part in the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, as well as in the upcoming anniversary events dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
According to him, exhibits stored among Kazakhstani families and transmitted from generation to generation can disappear without proper preservation.
full study of the Maleevsky deposit. the visit showed that maleyevsky mine has great potential .
During the conversation, the leaders of the two states discussed the priority areas of Kazakh-Egyptian cooperation and worked out ways to intensify cooperation in the trade and economic sphere.
Therefore, speaking about the economy of the region, we, of course, pay attention to the agricultural sector, "said the Governor of the region.
in addition, it is planned to hold a thematic competition on this topic, as well as on social networks.
today is a public holiday - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
According to the chairman, the exploits of veterans are very expensive for us.
Equipment worth 18,100,000 tenge was purchased at the own expense of the private charity foundation "Precious Heritage."
We predict that the growth of the country's economy this year will be 1.5%. today , we expect that the economic growth in 2015 will be about 1.5 % .
The constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on elections and opportunities for nomination as a presidential candidate show that all democratic processes based on international standards are developing in Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of promoting a healthy lifestyle among young people, as well as creating all the necessary conditions for active participation of the population in physical culture and sports along with the development of sports of the highest achievements.
The main goal of the second five-year plan is diversification and the emergence of competition in the manufacturing industry, the institute for industry development said.
Chairman of the Council for the Development of Youth Entrepreneurship of Kazakhstan - the famous Kazakh businessman Kenes Rakishev.
And summing up the results of these works, it is possible to clearly determine which productions need to be paid attention to, "said M. Mazhitov.
According to the Ministry of Finance, in Kyzylorda region most of the funds will go to social needs.
unemployed, self-employed and low-income population. "
For 23 years, 40 thousand kilometers of roads and 2700 kilometers of railways have been built in Kazakhstan.
To date, there are 371 preschool institutions in the metropolis, where 51 thousand 772 children are brought up.
In general, the region has 11 fish processing plants with an annual capacity of more than 8 thousand tons.
the state provides support to small and medium-sized businesses.
pensioners, young families with children, first-time voting students came to the polls.
In addition, the exhibition is an effective platform for sharing experience and cooperation with leaders of the tourism industry.
As for the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the apparatus contributed to the search for all data requested by observers.
construction of treatment facilities and sewerage networks in the cities of Zaysan and Ridder, a landfill in the city of Serebryansk, Zyryanovsky district.
construction of treatment facilities and sewerage networks in the cities of Zaysan and Ridder, a landfill in the city of Serebryansk, Zyryanovsky district.
A member of the Central Election Commission informed Ms. Pickering about the activities of the central election commission in preparation for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as about the work of election commissions in the regions of the country.
training will be provided free of charge, as well as participants in the first stage of the project "business relations" and "training in top management" will have the opportunity to visit four-week practical trips at related enterprises in Germany, the advantages that will be achieved by entrepreneurs in this trip: transfer of technology and acquisition of equipment; mutual exchange of goods, products and services; obtaining a franchise and license; inviting specialists and experts.
without this, we are building a hostel for students in Almaty.
Another issue is the state of construction facilities.
During the meeting, its participants discussed the organization of subject Olympiads for schoolchildren and competitions of scientific projects for schoolchildren.
the results of the audits will be analysed at a meeting of the coordinating council for the rule of law and the fight against crime.
command and staff computer simulation exercises are carried out using the jcats program.
In his opinion, dialogue between heads of State occupies a special place as the key to fruitful partnership.
We ask you to take part in the upcoming presidential elections, and for our part we will make every effort to fulfill the tasks you set, "the authors write.
in addition, in order to complete an internship in the magistracy, doctoral studies phd and the field of theater arts and architecture, it is necessary to create an annotation on the pre-studied world and the availability of research work in the planned area of ​ ​ training.
Consul of Kazakhstan Konaev highly appreciated the artist's work and presented a letter of thanks to Maslenitsa Yalasova for his great contribution to the development of cultural and humanitarian ties between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
the artist cannot embody his plan by creating a work "in the dark smoke of being."
and the chairman of the Eurasian Writers Union said: "This book again examines the poet's contribution to Kazakh culture, literature and consciousness.
these processes are excluded due to amendments to existing legislative acts. "
According to the senior lecturer of the Department of History and Philosophy named after S. Ualikhanov, Master of Social Sciences of Tulepbergenov.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - Head of the Secretariat also spoke about the work on promoting the Kazakh model of inter-ethnic harmony and the activities of friendship houses in the regions, ethnocultural associations.
as a child, I was struck by my father's active passion for life.
The head of state took into his own hands the fate of independent Kazakhstan.
aa. As idrissov noted, the efforts of the leadership of Kazakhstan in any sphere are aimed at the development of human capital, care for a person.
The complex was launched as part of the order of the head of state on the development of tourist infrastructure of the Zerendin recreation zone and is located in a very convenient zone on the river bank.
addressing trade entrepreneurs, the Minister noted that Kazakhstan has recently been changing and is becoming economically attractive in the region for economic reforms.
As Zhaksylykov noted, the methodology for organizing the risk assessment system is of a framework nature and serves as the basis for the development by each state control and supervisory body of departmental risk management systems.
If you press it, you automatically contact the help center.
three years before Expo. "
During the meeting, Deputy Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament S. Dyachenko familiarized with the priority areas of economic development of Kazakhstan and the work of the legislative body of the country.
he also praised Kazakh society as a high model of tolerance.
In 2014, the company produced 295.2 thousand tons of cathode equivalent of copper and 2,946 kg of gold ingot of its own production.
Many thanks to all Kazakhstanis for the high appreciation of my work for Kazakhstan.
social partnership with the employer - external control of the college.
This year, work will continue in the region to complete the construction of 5 schools.
every year, as part of the competition, young architects are invited to design schools, residential buildings, theaters and other facilities around the world.
It is worth noting that on May 7, 2015, in connection with the parade, the entrance to Қaza eli Square will be closed.
strengthening peace and social harmony in the minds of Kazakhstanis; preservation of stability, independence and formation of Kazakhstan patriotism, realization of potential of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the city of Semipalatinsk has been the site of nuclear tests for forty years, as a result of which many were injured. semey is located in the region , for over forty years it was the site of nuclear testing , affecting large numbers of people .
This program carries out official awareness-raising work online on a wide range of issues in the financial sphere, entrepreneurs, taxpayers and all interested citizens.
we all live in peace and harmony as one family. we all live in a single , united family in peace and harmony .
Representatives of the intelligentsia of South Kazakhstan region expressed confidence that the holding of presidential elections will be of particular importance in the light of the further development of our thousands and multinational state.
According to the press service of the Senate, the Committee on Constitutional Legislation, the Judicial System and Law Enforcement Agencies was instructed to prepare an opinion on the bill "On the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the return of persons and a protocol on the procedure for the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government on the return of persons."
in negotiations with the People's Republic of China, we agreed to build 15-20 new processing plants, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to the akim, environmental actions primarily contribute to the formation of moral values ​ ​ of the residents of the capital.
The total length of the international transport corridor in Kazakhstan is 2787 km.
the ratification of an agreement and protocol between senators and the Governments of a number of States on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes; The plan includes a discussion of the bill on the ratification of the Protocol on amendments and additions to the agreement between the governments of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan on the conditions for mutual travel of citizens, the report said.
Ocean, Sartai, Abai songs and songs, dauletkerei, seiteki performed by famous artists of the region sounded on the stage of houses of culture, the department of internal policy of the region reported.
the solemn event was accompanied by a theatrical performance and a concert program.
According to the head of the department, major road projects will be implemented in Kazakhstan in the coming years.
Because many nationalities celebrate this together and in solidarity, "the ambassador said.
he noted that branches throughout the country should be created, as well as have a developed network, in this case, a consolidated solution is important for the construction industry on problematic issues, which includes strong companies, associations, specialists, "the report said.
The event was organized by the Mayor's Office of Astana together with a branch of the Nұr Otan party.
Available data include aircraft, space technology, communications devices, medical and dental equipment, vessels and floating equipment, seals, leafy metal copying, vehicle parts and other production sectors.
the rights to hold and use a state stake in the joint-stock company are currently exercised by the departments of the Ministry of Investment and Development. there is the national institute of development - " national agency for export and investment " kaznex invest " jsc in the country .
As noted, near the Khan-tent entertainment center, the Majilismen created an alley of young seedlings.
We communicate with each other, find new friends, popularize the common culture as a single people of Kazakhstan, "Kalashnikova added.
we have also made great strides in health care.
special equipment is also installed to carry out activities by automatic mail during the year.
the document meets the requirements of national legislation and agreements, "said Mikhail Bortnik, a member of the committee on economic policy, innovative development and entrepreneurship.
In this regard, we are also making efforts to place these domestic goods in our stores, "said M. Taspenov.
I believe that after the situation is corrected, we should pay attention to our history, to our spiritual side.
according to him, general mechanisms of the fund are being developed.
the past year has been successful.	the mayor noted that last year was finished successfully .	0,83
In addition, the balanced policy of the president ensures steady growth of the economy of Kazakhstan.
National processes in the eurozone member countries are not objects of agriculture, and there is also insufficient information data, "he said.
the main task of the company is import substitution of similar products.
The country's ambassador to Egypt congratulated the strong participants on this important day, noting Kazakhstan's contribution to the victory over fascism to restore peace on Earth.
the new resource has a cultural, educational and historical character and is intended for large groups of users interested in studying education and strengthening the Kazakh khanate.
Within the framework of the forum, it is planned to organize three-panel discussion platforms on issues of affordability of housing quality, modernization of housing and communal services, support and development of business, education and employment.
the work of doctors in general practice, the work of nurses and the reform of patronage.
Various events will be organized in the country both among young people and in universities, all ethnocultural associations will actively work.	young people , students of universities , representatives of the cultural centers , united as one , will be involved in series of activities aimed at maintaining inter-ethnic harmony ,  he said .
the winners of the first stage take part in the second final stage.
people comply with the rules of the road, "- said i.lepech.
the timely action of the holding to fulfill its obligations to international investors confirms that "the national managing holding" Kazagro "also has high opportunities to pay its debt obligations and is recognized as a particularly reliable and attractive partner.
therefore, in order to improve the qualifications of PS employees and their association of credit associations of the agro-industrial complex (Budn and Anks), the Kazagro ubx white (hereinafter referred to as the holding) and the Agrarian Credit Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation) jointly implement the project "Upgrading the qualifications of workers of rural credit associations" to carry out activities at a new level in the association.
13,387 people evacuated to date have returned to their homes. as of today , 13,387 residents returned to their homes .
in order to discuss topical issues within the framework of the organization, the situation in the region and state priorities of Dushanbe, the foreign ministers of the member states of the Council of the Republic of Tajikistan e. Rahmon accepted.
an eternal country is a sign of love for one's name, a high level of Kazakhstani patriotism, fortitude, loyalty to the motherland, true loyalty to one's country, civic duty!
Compared to January-February of 2014 year, 19.3% less, including exports - $ 539.0 million (34.6% less), imports - $ 1,723,4 million (12.9% less).
bank lending increased by 28, 4% to 5 trillion tenge.
He is currently in agreement, "said the vice minister.
expanding cultural international ties with the border regions of the Russian Federation and countries of far and near abroad.
The interlocutors noted the need to increase the volume of bilateral trade and the number of joint ventures.
during the competition, special forces fighters will determine the best in shooting, endurance, team work, attack skills, mountain training, etc.
in the regional museum of art "Remember! proud! " The photo exhibition was organized by the regional department of culture and the team of the memorial museum of the hero of the Soviet Union Aliya Moldagulova.
According to him, out of 160 objects put up for auction, 88 were sold in the amount of 22.4 billion tenge to citizens who are their plenipotentiaries.
The head of state recalled that the economic belt of the Silk Road provides for the development of business activity in new transport areas.
our country inspires us to do high deeds and aspirations. " trotting.
The meeting was attended by the executive representative of this fund in the Republic of Kazakhstan r.a.sisemaliyev, as well as the deputy chairman of the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy, a member of the central election commission l.Sisemaliev.
on the Ukrainian front, I fought as a shooter on the anti-tank battery of the rifle division, was wounded.
3.2 thousand people were covered by training and employment assistance measures, the employment rate was 81.6%.	3,200 people were covered by measures for training and assistance in employment , the employment rate was 81.6 % .	0,83
through the application, every citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan can get his personal credit account and exclude undefined information in the credit report by connecting to the credit history control service "credit control."
m.didenko was wounded during the liberation of Vilnius and Kaunas cities, the repayment of military debt in the Prussian zone.
representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission also discussed the work of the governments of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Community on the implementation of the decision of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council on the model law "On Competition" of October 24, 2013.
The meeting discussed topical issues of implementing measures for the development of systematic prevention of offenses, modernization of law enforcement agencies, including the implementation of measures on the concept of personnel policy, the organization of the production of electronic bracelets, the construction of chamber correctional institutions based on the partnership of the individual and the state, the introduction of a unified e-fine information system.
As a result of absolute growth, we became 16th in 5 years.
The Minister of Economy of Romania, welcoming the desire for broad cooperation with Kazakhstan on a mutually beneficial and long-term basis, noted the significant potential for creating a strategic partnership between our countries.
Deputy Head of the Department of Internal Policy of the Governor's Office of the city on Thursday presented the main moments of the annual message to the asset of the Council of Veterans. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
I instruct the government to prepare a decision within a week to allocate funds from the national fund and take into account the necessary funds in the draft national budget for 2015.
First Deputy Akim of the Region of Rose Kemalov was informed about the implementation of the main directions of the program "Nұrly zhol."
As for the agenda, it celebrates the 25th anniversary of the CIS. with regard to the agenda , in the coming period the cis will celebrate its 25th anniversary .
Also, members of the faction of the party "Nұr Otan" in the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will hold a reception.
Aktobe Rail and Beam Plant LLP is a unique enterprise that is part of the list of world enterprises engaged in the production of high-quality differentiated stable rails, and is the only producer of medium and mold loops in Kazakhstan.
n. Nazarbayev's book and the idea of ​ ​ "g-global" aroused significant interest from the presentation participants and received positive reviews.
Rank of Colonel General of Police:
the route passes along Pavlodar and Semey, the total length of which is 1,018 km.
Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan were closely linked to brotherhood and Islam, and follow-up activities were also being carried out for the benefit of the two countries. saudi arabia and kazakhstan are connected by special brotherly relations based on respect and friendship .
During the conversation, the head of state noted that the pace of development of Aktobe region as a whole corresponds to the systemic goals of our country.
According to the veteran, his partner was the hero of the Soviet Union i.n.
national information technologies today have the opportunity to receive certificates from the State Center for the Payment of Pensions (MCVP), which indicate the amounts of pension contributions without income.
In today's world, where topical issues related to religious extremism are exacerbated, this forum is especially important. this forum is particular relevance in the context of the alarming developments in the modern world .
The year of the assembly is our common holiday, the affairs of all 17 million Kazakhstanis. the year of the assembly is a nation holiday .
The President instructed the Government and Parliament of Kazakhstan to provide the akimats of the regions with additional functions in the field of local development.
Kazatomprom will participate in measures aimed at the socio-economic stability of the white region, including the protection of labor rights of employees of subsidiaries, the creation of new jobs with the preservation of new ones.
According to the Statistics Department of Astana, 20,287 children were born in the city in January-October 2014, which is 10.6% more than in the same period of 2013.
he presented the senators with the results of the committee he headed for 2014 and shared plans for the future.
the memorandum was signed by the president of Araltuz, the director of the island multidisciplinary college, Erlan Aliyev, the acting director of the island industrial and technical college.
Over four years, the volume of production increased by 4 times and amounted to 9,696 tons.
the model of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - building unity and inter-ethnic harmony. "
military pilots will perform aerobatics in individual and aerobatic teams and show their skill.
over the years, the exhibition has become a prestigious platform for professional discussions related to labor safety and safety.
It is worth noting that work is underway in the republic to implement long-term contracts.
Thus, thanks to the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, which includes representatives of all ethnic groups of Kazakhstan, our country has become a platform for interethnic discussions at the global level.
two construction projects will be launched in Petropavlovsk, which will enter the market by expanding the production of the "polymer composite plant" and junis thermal units.
his poems often sound songs about love for his native land, about the needs of the people, about the heroes, as well as many patriotic poems that he composed for the soldiers.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects of further development of bilateral relations were discussed within the framework of the results of the visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia to Kazakhstan on May 22-24, 2014.
The press conference will be attended by the acting chairman of the board of the "kazagro" ubh "dauren mahazhanov.
this is evident from the starting plans of the head of state, which aimed at creating the most developed countries in the world.
So, according to the Governor's office, in the 2nd half of this year, an average of 1,120 children aged 3 to 6 years will attend the thresholds of 5 new kindergartens.
Because the agenda of the 2030 development programme has 17 important tasks and 169 related commitments.
the total investment amounted to 3 billion US dollars.
According to the regional akimat, the industrial potential of the region is growing.
To date, elements of the dual education system involving 3225 enterprises have been included in 280 colleges, which have reached 21,009 students. today 's , the elements of the dual training are penetrated with 280 colleges with 3225 enterprises covering 21,009 students .
It should be noted that the seminar-training "Legal form and ideological, conceptual form of kha activity" takes place within 3 days.
The scientific and practical conference in Almaty is aimed at developing international cooperation in the field of health care, integrating domestic medicine into modern international research programs, increasing the level of knowledge of medical specialists, improving epidemiological supervision and the quality of care for patients with infectious diseases.
their descendants will never forget the exploits of these veterans and home front workers, "said the acting head of the TD of Astana.
in addition, the level of traffic safety of the train, high-speed rail transport and railway transport infrastructure has been significantly improved, the report said.
there is also an increase in the production of rubber and plastics.
he noted that the authority of the academy is growing not only in Kazakhstan, but also in the countries of Europe and Germany.
today the state has great difficulties with the tribal base. breeding base in the country is currently experiencing difficulties .
The decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR was signed in March 1985, that is, on the eve of the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War.
Nevertheless, according to our preliminary calculations, I think that in the next 2-3 years we will solve the issue and finish the work, "said N. Aldabergenov.
the narrow monetary base, that is, the monetary base excluding time deposits of banks in the national bank, amounted to 3015.9 billion tenge. the net international reserves of the national bank increased by 0.8 % and amounted to 28.2 billion dollars .
the path of all the people, united and united in the way of great deeds.
military personnel of the military unit "Astana," having listened to the conversations of the militants, presented veterans with gifts and letters on behalf of the supreme commander of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The task of the expert group of the two countries is to study world experience in preparing governments for military service under the contract and master the best methods for training qualified sergeant personnel, the report said.
this is an important part of the use of labor resources in rural areas.
senators adopted amendments to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on health issues.
It is expected that 1200 delegates from all regions of Kazakhstan will take part in the congress, including the leaders of deputy factions in regional maslikhats, more than 100 veterans and party activists.
Kyzylorda region is the first region in which such a project will be implemented.
The upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital is a global event. the upcoming expo-2017 is an event on a global scale .
Currently, the average life of thermal power plants is 28.8 years, and hydroelectric power plants - 35.7 years.
According to him, scientists of the scientific and technical council on small energy, which works under the coalition, also submitted applications for participation in the competition, including the chairman of the council, doctor of technical sciences Khairulla Baishagyrov.
Professors and students of Taraz State University named after M.dulati noted in their congratulations that Kazakhstan, having successfully overcome difficulties, has become an authoritative country recognized by the whole world.
This year 855,000 tons of hay, 157,700 tons of straw, 23 thousand 400 tons of hay, 65 thousand 700 tons of silage, 116.0 thousand tons of additional feed were harvested in the region in order to provide feed and successfully wintering livestock in winter.
As of January 1, 2014, there were 1,416 cattle in the farm.
According to the press service of the Senate, as part of our country's appeal to promote Kazakhstan to the post of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania met with Linas Linkevicius, First Deputy Chairman of the Seimas Vidas Gedvilas, Chancellor of the Government Alminas Machulis and Minister antas.
It is worth noting that about 350 veterans of the Great Patriotic War live in Zhambyl region.
the main purpose of the arrival, participation in the first meeting of the Kazakh-Russian working group on the joint use and protection of border water bodies and the signing of the Agreement on cooperation on the interaction of groups of forces and means during the emergence of the border CU.
It is noted that the regulation of prices for market goods is introduced by state members only in some cases when: emergencies, national security, unlimited enemies.
aa. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan is interested in further strengthening cooperation with the EU in the regional format and fully supports the formation and implementation of the updated European Union strategy on Central Asia.
another important issue is the development of the energy infrastructure of the capital.
The deadline for making payments begins on May 25 of the current year, "said B. Kazhiev.
at the same time, he noted that the architecture of Kazakhstan is interested in a full-fledged, that is, comfortable and environmentally friendly construction environment.
The study has been conducted since 2000 in a 3-year period.
we, Kazakhstanis, took the fate of the country into our own hands.
it is difficult to imagine what our situation will be now if they do not win.
In addition, the station provides for the construction of 20 houses for 2 apartments for railway workers.
Recall, on November 18, 2014, amendments were made to the order of the Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 2, 2014 No. 368 "On approval of the list of medicines and medical products for first aid kits by car."
The press conference will be attended by the Director of the Department of Electric Power Industry of Kazakhstan Baurzhan Sarsenov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC Samruk-kazyna kanysh moldabayev, Director of the Department of Development of the National Energy System "kegoc" nurzhan isenov.
The main goal of the festival is to contribute to maintaining ties between generations, strengthening the patriotic feeling of young people and an active civic position.
Tokayev noted the importance of parliamentary exchanges between the two countries and expressed satisfaction with the interaction between delegations in the framework of the parliamentary ecu assembly.
Thus, according to B. Zhaksaliyev, to solve the problem, it is proposed to conclude long-term investment agreements, in respect of which specific obligations for energy-producing power plants have been approved.
During the competition, advanced technologies were used to determine the managerial and personal characteristics of citizens appointed to new posts, as well as psychological and other aspects. the most advanced technology was used during the competition in order to identify administrative and personal competencies , psychological and other aspects of future candidates for the positions .
As noted in the management, an open tender will be announced for the construction, in which foreign companies will be able to participate.
that is, if earlier, thanks to the implementation of the "money with the patient" principle, patients themselves chose hospitals for planned treatment, now this rule has become effective at the level of clinics.
the meeting was held mainly among representatives of industrial, industrial organizations and pensioners, youth, public associations.
The Kazakhmys Association considered more than 250 works from 210 authors.
signatures are collected by proxies. the gathering signatures supporting the candidacy is organized by the election agents .
independent laws of the center should be compiled and used in English.
Also, the greenhouse complex introduced innovative Dutch technologies.
of these, 36 natural, 56 artificial reservoirs, 64 water wells, 4 wind reservoirs.
Simbol relay race is provided by the Green Nogai akim of the region.
According to the expert's forecasts, low oil prices will remain for a long time - at least a year.
this is the head of state - the supreme commander of the armed forces N.A. a worthy answer to Nazarbayev's concern and high confidence, "said Colonel Muratov, commander of the regional troops.
cotton for the acquisition of foreign breeding cattle in Pavlodar region "for the purchase of 1,247 head of cattle from Australia, and" MTS ordered the purchase of 500 head of cattle from Russia, for the export of beef - 124 tons of meat and meat products as of March 12, 2015, "he said.
The work in this direction was carefully carried out by government representatives, specialists visited the regions of the country.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, the main task of the state is to ensure stable income and work of a person of labor, his housing, confidence in the future.
without internal stability in society, there is no time to pay attention to the development of the economy.	the growth of the economy will contribute development of cultural , social spheres and the nation in its turn should work hard to provide for the successful development of the economy .	0,84
All veterans of the Second World War and home front workers in the field of health care are covered by free medicines.	all participants of the war are exempt from payment of utilities , the veterans living in rural areas are provided with coal and firewood .	0,84
In order to protect the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, respect for the rule of law, prevent violations of the law, as well as ensure public safety, we draw the attention of participants in the electoral process to the following legislative norms related to election events, "the statement said.
There, experts will exchange views as part of the exchange of experience in the implementation of agreements, discuss practical issues for conducting inspection and preventive actions.
Besides, Ratanasuwan noted today's achievements of Kazakhstan and the President of Kazakhstan. He noted that Nazarbayev received a great influence from the far-sighted policy on environmental protection and is a common feature inherent in the heads of the two countries - the thinking of future generations, the concern of young people and their bright future.
The emergence of this international instrument was the beginning of a great deal of systematic work that began in 2008.
Assistance was also provided in spring field and other economic work in the houses of veterans.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the presentation took place in one of the halls of the Italian parliament with the participation of Italian deputies sergio divina, stefano rays, jacomo stucca, diplomatic corps, Italian public environment and experts, gardeners.
all of us are equal children of a single Kazakhstani people.
The head of state emphasized the importance of the effective and sustainable work of the fund in modern economic conditions, "the statement said.
Raised 5 girls, 9 grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren.
During the meeting, the main aspects of cooperation between countries in the financial, economic, transport and transit, fuel and energy spheres were discussed.
During the meeting of the commission, applications of 62 poultry farms were considered, of which 35 were ovaries, 17 were broiler, 2 were ducks, 1 was turkey, 2 - 5 were breeding farms, 1 was breeding livestock, the report said.
Italy is one of the first European countries to conclude a complete set of inter-State treaties in the criminal legal sphere.
So, according to the authorized statistical bodies, out of 2014 million workers checked in 1.8, 391 thousand or a fifth of them work in harmful industries.
Transition from public administration through standardized and reduced monitoring, evaluation and control procedures to results-based public administration.
I wish that young people who today leave to study abroad will return to the country and make a significant contribution to the development and prosperity of our state, "he said.
According to the Vice Minister, in 2008 unemployment decreased by 6.6%, in 2014 - by 5%.
A festive table unfolded on the fronts, a concert program was organized.
In addition, to date, the state revenue department has given consultations to 537 individuals of districts, cities of zhanaozen and aktau.
maintaining jobs during the decline in the country's export prices. it 's necessary to ensure the preservation of workplaces during the period of declining of prices for export commodities of our country .
in Karaganda region gifts are also given to veterans of emergency agencies.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev never forgot about veterans who survived the fire for their homeland. as the president said , we will never forget the heroes who fought for our lives .
new buses are equipped with gps navigators to regulate dispatch control and wi-fi internet for free passenger service.
It should be noted that the national managing holding Kazagro implements a state policy to stimulate the development of the agro-industrial complex by effectively managing the investment assets of white joint-stock companies.
I wish every citizen of the country happiness, goodness, peace, "said A. Nichkasov.
their further preservation and distribution will be important for the young Kazakh generation.
a significant amount of investment in the regional context has been mastered in temirtau and karaganda.
We have a responsible task - to show Kazakhstani art at a decent level to the Italian audience.
As a result of the analysis of statistics on turnout/departure provided by the migration police, it was found that the figure for January-November 2014 was 31.4% lower than in January-November 2013, or 15,185 people, "said A. Smailov.
During the meeting, the head of state noted that a request was sent to the constitutional council regarding the possibility of holding presidential elections.
today we are united by the values ​ ​ of the "eternal country."
this lyrical essay describes the situation in society of the XX-XXI centuries, which influenced all peoples of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, medical organizations with automated workplaces of medical workers are provided for the introduction of the following documents in electronic form:
"Today, Tulpar-Talgo conductors are subject to additional qualification requirements.
participants honored the memory of those killed in World War II with a minute of silence.
The head of the Central Election Commission of Uzbekistan in his speech wished his colleagues the successful holding of presidential elections in Kazakhstan at a high organizational level in accordance with the principles of democracy.
In general, the number of agreements amounted to 35,209 with an increase of 5.5%.
Then there was an open exchange of views, during which the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" spoke about the participation of women in the implementation of tasks.
The evening was attended by famous creative and creative groups of Kazakhstan, led by such artists as People's Artist of Kazakhstan, Honored Artist of Kazakhstan Mikhail Tokarev, famous singer, singer, Honored Artist of Kazakhstan Bekbolat Taleuhan.
the innovative project will allow from student age to train qualified entrepreneurs. it is expected the innovative project will help to identify future talented businessmen and give them serious knowledge already at the student 's desk .
the ensemble is led by a laureate of international and republican competitions, soloist Abylaykhan Skakov.
In order to fulfill our tasks, it is necessary to preserve our unity, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Our task is to adopt a law this year.
warriors sought for them to defeat the enemy and escape from the battle, "said members of the choir.
the implementation of the programme has increased human resources capacity.
Unfortunately, we are the last generation that sees veterans of the rear of war and labor.
we have always paid special attention to the socio-economic decisions taken in the republic, and express our readiness in the event of elections to take an active part in them, the authors write.
In 2014, 40 stations functioned in the city, the stations placed the central areas of the left bank.
During the war years, our people were involved in work in the same rear. during the war , people worked in the rear .
In total, assistance was provided in the amount of 700 thousand tenge.
The sessions focused on appropriate distribution and pharmacy practices, standard operating procedures and documentation management.
In the 50s, another 1.5 million people visited the main regions.
In addition, congratulating the head of state on his victory in the elections, the chairman of the state council and the council of ministers of the Cuban republic raul castro expressed his intention to further develop relations between the two countries.
one for processing meat, the other for processing grain and vegetables. create conditions and begin to work .
In his speech, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted the importance of deepening cooperation with European states in response to new challenges.	in his opinion , high potential for further development of cooperation is concluded in the new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation of rk and the eu ,  the message reads .
however, this view is completely inappropriate, since the achievements of the Soviet Union are common to all member countries, and the existing immunity in Kazakhstan is not observed in other CIS countries.
The chairman of the committee also answered questions from senators on reducing administrative pressure on business, administering taxes, applying international experience in countering tax evasion in the country, identifying funds withdrawn offshore, preventing shadow financial turnover, tax administration within the framework of the customs union, improving the tax service, camera supervision, and modernizing the tax system.
both in the museum and in the department itself there are special stands with photographs and biographies of veterans.
the main purpose of these visits was to deliver summons to the V Congress to the named persons, sent by the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan K. Tokaev.
industrial zones began to operate in Turkestan, Shardarin and Suzak regions. there are industrial zones in turkestan , shardarinsk , suzak districts .
Amendments to the Land Code and other legislation.
as a result, agricultural production increased by 2.6%.
In particular, the works of the People's Artist of Kazakhstan, the laureate of the state prize Yevgeny Matveevich Sidorkin can be noted.
Last year, 3 projects worth 6.5 billion tenge were completed, the project, implemented with the creation of 643 jobs, is engaged in the production of furniture, meat carvings in a vacuum box and a shotgun.
the cost-effectiveness of the project is very effective in connection with the system formation of a network of logistics systems, "assured the director of logistics in Europe and Central Asia, ronald kleijwegt (ronaldkleijwegt).
the share of the mining industry decreased by 16.5%. the mining share in total volume decreased up to 16.5 percent .
the organizers of the annual stage of the World Cup in sambo - the sambo wrestling federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the international federation of sambo (fias) and the akimat of Almaty with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On the eve of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, little is said about the legislative process, its significance and institutions. on the eve of the 20th anniversary of the constitution of the republic of kazakhstan people always talk about the role of the legislative process in the future regeneration of our country and improvement of its institutions .
today he gladly perceives that the students of the school he manages became the winners of the city, regional and republican Olympiads.
According to the regional department for youth policy, the purpose of the event is to preserve and improve the human, creative and cultural achievements of gifted youth, as well as the formation of civic activity and patriotism among young people.
The seminar will be attended by a professor from Poland Erji Banski, who will tell participants about the complex issues of Polish agricultural development and successful reforms, as well as introduce the EU policy in the field of agriculture.
In a conversation with the President of the Czech Republic, milos zeman discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during last year's visit of the Czech leader to Kazakhstan.
adoption of the bill will contribute to ensuring transparency in decision-making by state bodies, eliminating the possibility of unlawful interference in business, removing administrative barriers at all levels in the field of subsoil.
This year it is planned to celebrate 5 major jubilees throughout the country. this year kazakhstan will celebrate five major anniversaries .
The set of measures proposed by the head of state, that is, institutional reforms, will have a positive impact on the strengthening of the economy, "- said the Wurechensky.
The CIS delegate arrived to participate in the "memory relay," in the meeting of which Vladimir Rakokoshin noted the importance of the work of youth search teams.
the third five-year plan contributes to the transition to a new structure of the economy, the formation of a strong middle class of entrepreneurs, the retention at the regional level of a significant share of raw materials in 3-4 types of export products and reaching the level of labor productivity.
From Belarus there are 560 people involved in trade.
in Kostanay, North Kazakhstan, Akmola regions due to recent precipitation, the soil is additionally moistened, the technique cannot be released, sowing is delayed.
In addition, the technical characteristics of the aircraft provide a high level of combat training for pilots, "said Major General Aviation.
this suggests that Kazakhstan's society is at a high level of development.
the meeting was attended by the head of the education department of the city, the deputy of the maslikhat.
my dream came true as a child. my dream came true .
In addition, the state will take on part of the costs of enterprises that carry out technological modernization, "said Deputy Governor of the region Yerlan Aukenov.
one such plant will be built in about 12-15 months depending on capacity.
Kazagro was financed by the enterprise, the total cost of the project at the first stage amounted to 7.4 billion tenge.
According to the Governor's Office, the company will produce from 10 to 200 liters of garbage bags and bags.
The purpose of the collection is to train battalion commanders (divisions) in basic forms of command training, improve their knowledge and skills during tactical exercises and flights, study best practices in training and training officers.
at the same time give priority to the implementation of joint projects aimed at the development of the tourism industry.
During the event, more than a hundred pine trees, larch trees and shrubs were planted on the left bank, the press service of the Senate reports.
According to the organizers of the event, during the war, thanks to donor blood, stable blood was sent to the front field, many soldiers survived.
According to data published today by the Central Election Commission, 95.5% of voters voted for him.
Where the capsule is installed, the inscription: "The capsule must be opened in 2045 and read the message for the 100th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War."
among them were winners and prize-winners of international competitions.
the company's activities increase the transshipment of goods along the sea route, allowing it to load the whitewash seaport.
Within the framework of the forum, three discussion platforms were organized on the issues of accessibility and quality of housing, modernization of housing and communal services, support and development of business, education and employment.
after the repair is completed, 4-6-lane traffic is installed in the first stage.
the company's products appeared on the North Kazakhstan market five years ago.
railways and bridges, electric networks, schools, hospitals, housing and communal services facilities, especially for young people, "N. Nazarbayev said.
The Assembly, formed in Kazakhstan by a fundamental institution for the development of inter-ethnic relations, is an important factor in ensuring regional and global security.
positive dynamics are observed in all industries and peasant farms.
Governor of Zhambyl region visited water bodies of the region and visited large enterprises, met with entrepreneurs.
According to him, the number of convicts has decreased in Kazakhstan, and the number of rehabilitated has also increased.
One of the priority areas is the provision of first aid, "said Duissenova.
The interlocutors confirmed the need to resume the joint work of the bilateral council of entrepreneurs and agreed to hold a meeting of the council this year.
however, the imbalance between doctors and sisters must be corrected.
Ahmed Al-Awadi, Director of the Department of Climate Change of the Ministry of Energy, during a meeting with a delegation of a national company, expressed readiness to exchange experience.
It is worth noting that in the world there are 3 plants for the production of compacted pipes from polypropylene, of which 1 in Kazakhstan, the rest in Italy and the United Arab Emirates.
Following the meeting, the interlocutors expressed interest in further deepening cooperation in the oil and gas sector.
The construction of a multidisciplinary oil and gas plant was also launched in Atyr.
What is happening in the global economy is more difficult than market events.
In 2014, two issues were approved at the congress, which are currently being implemented, to consider the possibility of reducing transport stops for mining and metallurgical complex enterprises and VAT recall benefits for exporting entrepreneurs, he said.
Therefore, representatives of the Nұr Otan party urge all citizens of Kazakhstan, political parties and public forces to support the initiative to hold early presidential elections.
here was born the idea of creating an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan as an advisory body under the President of Kazakhstan.
In general, we began work in this direction on March 20.
This decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
It includes deputies of the city maslikhat, heads of state institutions, heads of organizations and enterprises, faculty of universities in the city.
The supply of equipment is confirmed by the act of acceptance/transfer signed by the customer and the supplier, "the statement said.
This year in Kyzylorda in the amount of 188 million tenge will be provided with night lighting 17.3 km out of 14 streets of the city, the press service of the Mayor's office reports.
Taking into account the proposals and opinions of bicycle rental places to simplify the use of the system, an online payment system via the Internet and mobile banking based on android, ios has been launched.
During the summit, the parties discussed the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War and noted the decisive contribution of the Soviet Union to saving Europe and the whole world from fascism.
Bobama also praised Kazakhstan's efforts to strengthen international security and expressed confidence that the head of state will take an active part in the peaceful settlement of the conflict in Ukraine.
Because residents really waited for hours for queues to vote, "said D. Borodovich.
In turn, the head of the department, Dosanov, thanked public associations for their civic position and highly appreciated the contribution of civil society to the fight against corruption.
The upcoming parade is an honor of our fathers, ancestors fighting for the future of generations, for peace and freedom, it is a demonstration of the power of the Kazakh army, which protects our country today.
according to the organizational and legal models of economic associations 6 thousand 322, institutions 1 thousand 529, consumer cooperatives 615, public associations 317, state enterprises 311.
According to the national movement, 30 women invited to the meeting were waiting for surprises.
Within six months, the company was preparing for certification. within six months , the company has been working to prepare for certification .
The Minister of Defense also spoke about the ongoing work on equipping the Kazakh army with modern weapons and military equipment.
Two issues were put on the agenda of the session: the implementation of the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the choice of the Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Sko.
in the future, it is planned to create a transport and logical hub on the basis of the international airport aktobe.
In this regard, the Deputy Prime Minister gave a number of relevant instructions to state bodies.
The President praised Nazarbayev's peace initiatives in the international arena, including the mutual rapprochement of the positions of the main faiths on the voluntary renunciation of nuclear weapons, accompanying global peace and creative development.
The heads of state also discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and meetings in Moscow dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
The head of state with great vision brought to the end all initiatives.
Academician of the International Academy of Sciences for Ecology and Life Safety, associated with couples, Ukrainian N. Kuriluk stressed that the basis of the bright and creative future of Kazakhstan is the cohesion and unity of its people.
Abdikalikova noted the importance of the successful implementation of joint investment projects, which should be identified by the goals and objectives of the new economic policy, reflected in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr way - way to the future."
The Minister noted Thailand's interest in urgently including in the charter on cooperation within the framework of the Green Bridge partnership program initiated by Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that 36 thousand active small and medium-sized businesses work in the region, in which 137 thousand people work.
During the meeting with representatives of Kazakhstan business groups, issues of establishing relations with Norwegian companies related to the cultivation of marine fish in the country at the production level were discussed.
The Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan provides the younger generation with military clothing before sending from the regional assembly point and interviews with them representatives of military units holding a military position, the report said.
The head of state noted that shipbuilding is a new industry in the domestic economy, the products of which are in demand on the market.
each of them votes for a candidate who, in his opinion, ensures a stable future, "said the chairman of polling station No. 23.
So, an agreement was signed on cooperation between the library of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the leader and the Friedrich Ebert Foundation - the first Reich president of Germany, elected democratically.
The idea of ​ ​ creating the project was caused by the need to constantly measure the level of perception of corruption in order to control the effectiveness of the party's anti-corruption program for 2015-2025, "said the director of the Nұr Otan Party Institute for Public Policy.
It is worth noting that from 2010 to 2014, most of foreign direct investment is exploration - 28.2%, which is $35.5 billion.
I think this is the dynamics of future development, "he said.
the new railway line overtakes raw materials and goes to the western surface.
thanks to this unity, thousands of peace and stability, we have achieved success in the country.
One of such appeals came from Olga Kuznetsova to the branch of "Development" of Akmola region.
The total volume of investments under the above 6 project will amount to 39.9 billion tenge, and the number of created jobs will exceed 1,000.
the number of applications for patents has increased over the past three years.
According to him, today the government of the country and the National Bank are doing a lot of work on the development of the economy.
our intentions are obvious.
so a big opportunity.
At the meeting, the participants discussed the results of the work done and plans for the future.
I am sure that once again we will be able to demonstrate our unity, solidarity around our leader, responsibility to the prospect and fate of the country, "he said during the speech.
Germans.
metal coatings, energy-saving glass boxes, glass fibers and others.
According to him, the working group is discussing the opening of a specialization in establishing fairness in 4-5 courses.
aa. Idrissov noted that the fruitful completion of negotiations on a new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation within the framework of the head of state's visit to Brussels last year and on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO was an important milestone in relations between Kazakhstan and the EU.
for example, in the field of bank: Kazagro buys equipment and leases farmers.	taking into account that the party of the contract may also be the financial institutions , this mechanism becomes more attractive ,  he explained .
high-speed trains with a shuttle system provide timely delivery or return of cargo, access of cars to the consumer.
After hearing the citizens who arrived, the prosecutor general instructed to carefully study the complaints and, in the event of violations, take drastic measures to restore the violated rights and bring the perpetrators to the responsibility established by law, the report said.
this bill defines the principles, tasks and mechanisms, goals of the state youth policy. this bill identified the main tasks and directions of the state youth policy , the competences of the state bodies and mechanisms of realization of the state youth policy have been enshrined .
Recall that in the presidential election, according to the CEC, for the first time in history, 95.11% of voters voted.
40.0 billion tenge was allocated for the development of the village, more than 2.4 thousand projects were implemented.
Projects under BZhK-2020 will amount to 112.7 million tenge.
the potential of the region's electric power industry, including implemented projects, is 749.5 MW of installed capacity based on large-sized and silk sounds, 16 small sounds and 1 solar energy.
this is a conjugation of the efforts of Kazakhstanis on the way to a brighter future and prosperity of Kazakhstan.
I think that the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan together with the March holiday will increase the cohesion of peoples and respect for each other.
A Factual Inspector for the Use of New Drugs to Meet International Requirements. "
He highly appreciated Kazakhstan's achievements since independence and thanked the Special Representative for his visit to Brunei, noting that this visit expresses Kazakhstan's great desire to become a member of the UN Security Council.
this medal recalled my years of service in the Almaty Eurasian secretariat and participation in the filming of the new capital of Kazakhstan.
For 11 months, 8 new general education schools were commissioned with a total of 1,160 students.
the number of murders decreased by 19.3%, robbery - by 29.7%, extortion - by 19.2%.
Following the meeting in Karaganda, memoranda were signed between national companies and enterprises for the development of local content.
I thank you for supplementing the chronicle of the capital with bright pages and showing a good example to the younger generation, "said Adilbek Jaksybekov.
Together with China, we are building dozens of enterprises on various grounds: at the expense of Chinese financial institutions and on the basis of joint ventures, "said N. Nazarbayev.
over the year, 206 young specialists arrived in the region, including 106 in the countryside.
they reacted with interest and admiration to the actions of the soldiers.
Imports of bank products decreased by 4.1% (3.8 billion tenge), the report said.
It'll be two days.
Last year, crop care was carried out in accordance with agricultural requirements and timely harvesting was achieved. last year , seed preparation was carried out in accordance with all agro-technical requirements .
During which the electoral campaign related to the early elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be discussed, as well as the experience of foreign states regarding the election campaign.
The joint-stock company of the Food Corporation was additionally allocated 3.5 billion tenge of budget funds, in turn, these funds will be allocated for spring and summer field work under the grain purchase program at the expense of state resources. "said the deputy minister.
As part of this significant event, the Astana Opera Theater plans to hold a parade of world opera and ballet theaters, such as the rock and the metropolitan opera.
To congratulate you on the New Year holidays is a great honor for us, because we respect your combat experience, you are an example for us.
I want to emphasize that in order to develop competition policy, an important agreement has been concluded with Eidu to review antitrust laws and policies, "said S. Zhumangarin.
From January 1, 2023, 5 years are provided for participation in payment assets, "said the vice minister.
During the work of the KHK, the parties discussed the impact of the situation in Afghanistan, the zone of responsibility, measures to combat the recruitment of people by terrorist organizations, as well as issues related to basic educational institutions and organizations, training grounds, the report said.
At the same time, as the press secretary noted, all conditions have been created for working in the center.
in addition to potential investors, the forum determined the interest of Austrian companies in industrial cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Defense, 288 cadets and student officers will go to Russia, 67 to Turkey, 34 to Belarus, 19 to Ukraine and 7 more to India.
Summing up the meeting and. Merkel expressed confidence in further fruitful and effective cooperation based on mutual trust and respect.
Within its framework, entrepreneurs take conditional control over the lives of veterans, provide them with the necessary financial and other assistance, "said N. Altaev.
Today, the enterprise's products can be purchased not only in the district's stores, but also in the cities of Atbasar, Yesil, Kokshetau.
Karaganda Steel Works - the Imstalcon team enthusiastically received the news of the presidential election.
Donata became especially famous by performing offenbach helena in the "beautiful helen," Mary lloyd in the operetta of the Calman "Chicago Duchess" and the composition of the entry cin ci la.
This year, it is planned to create 9,500 new jobs in the region, as of February 1, 725 new and permanent jobs have been created.
Expressing special respect for the personality of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev.
also clarified the rights and obligations of water users in the field of water supply and drainage, as well as defined the rights and obligations of water supply and (or) drainage organizations.
During the opening ceremony, Governor of Adana Mustafa the great and mayor noted the dynamic development of Kazakhstan, as well as the first president of A.D. highly appreciated the achievements of the country led by Nazarbayev.
in addition, the rule prohibiting parking "on the roads and streets of settlements, except for specially designated places established by the corresponding road signs and signs," is excluded from subparagraph 22 (b) of article 54 of the law.
and the flag of workers is at least 100 thousand tenge.
The government is instructed to take measures in an anti-crisis manner.
On your initiative, Kazakhstan took responsibility for promoting dialogue between the leaders of various world and traditional religions and faiths, which, undoubtedly, has further increased its authority on the world stage, the telegram says.
infrastructure and other conditions created by the state, the customs union, the Eurasian economic community, additional opportunities aimed at implementing knowledge-intensive projects, "he said.
He also familiarized with the course of the upcoming election campaigns and events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, the organization of the VIII Astana Economic Forum and the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
What is happening in the world and in our country cannot but worry us.
The head of state noted that thanks to the efforts of the entire Kazakh people, peace and tranquillity have become the foundation for the development of the country in the 21st century.
cooperation is aimed at the development of financial services, including through privatization in the regions, in the financial market, the creation of an open dialogue between consumers of financial services with increasing financial literacy of the population, including troubled borrowers and professional participants in the financial market.
one of these stages is non-fulfillment and non-payment of the agreement, which has problems with unreasonable refusal of goods, work or service, as well as untimely payment.
, "- said in a statement.
The event was attended by more than 50 employers of large enterprises of the capital, Kurchatov, Rostovites.
even how many years have passed, their business remains an example of courage and courage.
And then we will all go through criticism of the times, "said Engels.
New anti-crisis measures will be envisaged in 2015 in the amount of 101 billion tenge.	during the meeting the minister has informed kazakhstan will redistribute assets in the amount of 100 million tenge for the new anti-crisis measures in 2015 year .	0,84
As you know, global economic changes and instability in some regions affect the economies of many countries.	you know that global changes in the economy , the unstable situation in some regions also affect the economies of many countries , despite the fact that kazakhstan supports the policy and the economy in a stable condition .	0,84
in the city of Bonnet. genius noted that he took with great pleasure information about the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the extraordinary presidential elections.	according to the mfa , hans-dietrich genscher said that he received the news about the victory of nursultan nazarbayev with great joy .	0,84
According to the press service of the movement, the republican motorcycle rally is dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	according to the press service of the movement , the republican motocross  my country , " timed to the 20th anniversary of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan .
Recall that in 2015, a single national test will be held from June 2 to 15.
reducing the risk and negative consequences of natural disaster from natural and man-made emergencies in the territories of Kazakhstan and Tajikistan, as well as further development and improvement of the activities of rescue formations in both states.
in conclusion, the King of Jordan wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health and wished progress and prosperity to the friendly people of Kazakhstan.
Books created from archived materials.
information support and promotion of implementation of five institutional reforms, as well as ideas of Kazakhstan identity in gardens, Internet, new generations of mass media, as well as in social networks.
The parties recognized the importance of developing mutually beneficial ties in the field of energy, culture and education.
the authoritative European jury praised the performances of compatriots.
At the same time, according to U. Karabalin, 203 agreements for subsoil use in the field of hydrocarbon raw materials have been concluded through the ministry, 59 of them - for exploration, 64 - for production, 68 - for joint exploration and production and 12 - on the basis of contracts.
at the meeting, the chairman of the committee on constitutional legislation, the judicial system and law enforcement agencies emphasized that the mandatory requirements of international conventions, UN agreements and recommendations, as well as the research practice of foreign countries became the basis for reckless participants in the law.
Consultations are planned in Geneva in the coming months with representatives of the regional office of the Unisef on the opening in Almaty of a UNICEF regional office for central and eastern Europe and the CIS.
In 2014, Kazakhstan climbed to 28th place in the doubles ranking of "electronic government."
today's agreement will be a platform for business relations between business and the leaders of the southern capital.	according to kulibayev the today 's agreement will be the real platform of cooperation between business and government of the southern capital .	0,85
among agricultural products in the trading industry, we have world leaders in all agriculture.	in trading sector we are present in almost all the top world leaders of agricultural products , which sell not only grain , but also cotton and rice .	0,85
the development of culture requires economic growth.
during these exercises, the Kazbrig and Cossack units of the airmobile troops demonstrated the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
reforms cover a wide range of economic areas - from natural resources to natural monopolies.
I sincerely wish you peace, health and decent respect in society.
each region of Kazakhstan is its own, interesting and special. every region in the country is interesting and unique .
the current political situation determined the relevance of the issue.
the activities of the center are aimed at the further development of medical education.
If you form such stable things, then foreign creditors are ready to lend to such associations without guarantees, then there will be interest in the Kazakh economy, "said Dauren Makhazhanov.
Also, according to him, it is planned to restore more than 7.5 thousand roads.
I also want to talk about mistakes in the personal questionnaire of U.Kaisarov.
over time, all materials change and collapse.
in the Kostanay sports palace and the adjacent zone there is an agricultural exhibition "Agronaukan-2015."
government is not state-specific and is becoming more compact by reducing excess services.
During the meeting, the delegation of Kazakhstan was headed by the national coordinator for Shu activities, Ambassador-at-Large of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Aidar Abishev.
military uniforms are always somewhat inferior to ordinary garments.
Over the past 12 months, compared to March 1 of last year, the population increased by 250.9 thousand people or 1.5%, "said a.smailov.
The Secretary of State stressed that the continuous increase in the number of people in different countries of the world wishing to obtain Kazakh citizenship is a vivid manifestation of the strategically constructive, socially attractive and internationally recognized state policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
i. The First Deputy Chairman of the Sejm exchanged views on the expansion of relations between the two countries, including inter-parliamentary relations.
n. Akrasani noted Thailand's readiness to participate in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 and see achievements in the field of alternative energy sources.
According to him, socially oriented companies will also be exempted from this responsibility.
declining incomes and increasing social tensions in neighbouring States can also affect us.
During the meeting, the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the field of security, issues on the international agenda, including the situation in southeastern Ukraine, were discussed.
the next step will be the development of a feasibility study for the project and the implementation of an automated information system.
During the conversation, key areas of Kazakh-economic cooperation were discussed within the framework of the implementation of joint projects in various sectors of the Kazakh economy.
We agreed to sign an agreement with Vietnam on a free trade zone within two months. we hope that in 2 months the agreement on free trade zone with vietnam will be signed .
First of all, the flag, standard and constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan were brought to the solemn hall of the Palace of Independence, where the inauguration will take place.
more than 5,000 military personnel, about 220 units of modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aviation equipment took part in the large-scale march.
According to the head of the regional department of agriculture Davirbek Abuov, Baikonur is sold at fixed prices for vegetable products and 15-20% cheaper than market prices in accordance with a partnership agreement between a subsidiary of the Kyzylorda financial company and the Miras shopping center.
After the war, he served in the country's internal affairs bodies for many years.
the state helps and supports you until it can. the country provides necessary support and assistance .
the operator immediately calls an ambulance if the person becomes absolutely sensitive and cannot talk.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, in 2014 the number of small and medium-sized businesses amounted to 33.6 thousand units, which is 4.3% more than last year.
unity, friendship, peace, solidarity - the main and main guarantee of political - economic stability in the country.	solidarity , peace , friendship , tolerance and harmony has always been the foundation of well-being and prosperity of kazakhstan .	0,85
According to forecasts, by 2040 the volume of energy consumption will increase 1.3-1.5 times, "karabalin said.
in the first place in the number of newborns - South Kazakhstan region. south kazakhstan region is number one in amount of the newborns .
According to the bank, the financing of the construction of an economy-class house is carried out on the principle of public-private partnership both at the expense of the construction company and at the expense of the regional budget.
Director General of the International Organization for Migration, noting that Kazakhstan is an outstanding member of this organization, expressed readiness to continue and strengthen cooperation with our country.
In addition, as the head of the NPP said, the NPP is actively working through the committee on trade, but the issue of subsidies has not yet been resolved.
The rapporteur also informed the deputies about the work done to implement the law and the positive results achieved.
The head of state noted that economic sanctions against Russia have an impact on the Central Asian region.
Within the framework of the State program "Affordable Housing - 2020" due to transfers from the republican budget, the construction of 6 residential buildings for waiting lists in the Nursultan district with a total area of ​ ​ 15.9 thousand square meters. m and the construction of 7 credit houses with a total area of ​ ​ 22.7 thousand square meters. m on Satybaldiev street and in the Nursultan district.
Particular attention was paid to the importance of strengthening supervision over the implementation of the path to the future strategy, ensuring the targeted use of budget funds allocated from the national fund for the stabilization of the economy.
according to our forecasts, we will enter the top thirty in the manufacturing industry in 2035 if the ideology of ideology becomes a national idea, "said A. Ulseitov.
the head of the Aliya and Manshuk Double Glass Charitable Foundation spoke about the Aliya scholar's bidding.
Activation of the silk road is one of the global projects in which several countries participate, "said B. Sagintayev.
he also fought on the Volga and Kalinin fronts.
completion of construction - March 2014.
they all note the high level of organization of elections, which, in their assessment, is a vivid manifestation of transparent, transparent and fair elections.
True, it was very difficult, but not in happy moments.
Over 20 years, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has demonstrated by its work its ability to each member of the assembly. the assembly of people of kazakhstan proved its worth for twenty years of hard work of each member of the assembly .
Having familiarized himself with the final sketch of the project and its implementation plan, the head of the region drew attention to the materials of the plan for the installation of a new architectural object.
formation of an accountable state
After the war, he returned to his native land and entered the pedagogical institute.
More than 4 thousand sports and mass events were held, in which more than 700 thousand people took part, including 340 thousand children.
Speaking about the fact that the EAEU member states do not apply customs duties against each other (other duties, taxes and fees that own equivalent actions), non-tariff regulation measures, special protective, anti-dumping and compensatory measures for imported and exported goods.
Following the meeting of the board, the Prime Minister instructed the state bodies to provide material support to the regions to eliminate the consequences of floods, "R.imankulov.
Also, the portfolio of meetings was replenished with the bill "On Arbitration."
identified priority areas, received new buses, training courses for drivers and conductors.
And today the ceremony of honoring the head of state took place, which took place on the eve of the Day of Solidarity of the People of Kazakhstan.
our allies lived in difficult conditions after the war.
in any national society there will be issues that need to be addressed.
The design and estimate documentation of the road with a length of 5 kilometers is being completed, construction will begin in May.
The final competition of the student spring festival 2015 was a gala concert in which the best creative groups performed.
industrial production increased by 3.5%. the growth in output in agriculture was also ensured .
and according to the requirements of the new customs code, the possibility of automatic customs operations without the help of a customs inspector.
increased production of food products is noted in dairy products, meat and food by-products, sausages and sunflower oil.
With the beginning of the work of the customs union, the volume of investments in the manufacturing industry in Kazakhstan increased 2.5 times, from $5.7 billion (2006-2009) to $14 billion (2010-2013). good.
Recall that today the presentation of the specialized social network "www.1ccc.kz" took place.
The Thai Minister supported the opening of a new Astana-Bangkok route in addition to the Almaty-Bangkok route and, in this regard, an increase in the number of Kazakh tourists coming to Thailand.
Holding these fees will increase the qualifications and form professionalism in the field of preparing a single methodology, "said sergeant-master sarsenbai shurakhanov.
that is, through this network, any citizen can get the necessary information on privatization, legalization, accounting and auditing, tax, customs legislation and electronic procurement, "said Fr. Yanovskaya.
In 2014, the volume of state revenues from tax collection and other mandatory payments, including 1 trillion 429.1 billion customs payments, amounted to 4.5%.
In the second half of this year, Passenger Transportation JSC plans to provide Tullar-Talgo passengers with new high-quality services.
In turn, the head of the region instructed the heads of authorized departments to consider this project of the Chinese company.
Congratulations were sent to the President of Kazakhstan by representatives of the general confederation of trade unions, noting that the elections were a vivid and vivid evidence of the historical choice of the people of Kazakhstan, who again expressed confidence in the direction in which the head of state adheres.
thanks to your visionary leadership, Kazakhstan has achieved incredible success in all areas and has taken a worthy place among dynamically developing states, the telegram says.
these centers provide highly specialized medical care for cardiological, ophthalmological, oncological and other socially significant diseases.
as an official appendix to the law that we provide assistance to the border service if there are cases of a terrorist attack or violation of the state border, "said the Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard.
In accordance with the law, state control and supervision of private entrepreneurs are grouped into four groups.
There are also aspects that relate to the procedural part of the campaign that we pay the attention of experts. there are aspects and procedure parts of the electoral campaign , which appeared in the focus of attention of our analysts and experts .
he emphasized the importance of the "lead-east gate."
Financing has also begun for beverage production projects in Almaty region and food production in Kyzylorda region.
As part of the general discussion, the seminar participants discussed the most pressing issues of law enforcement practice, forms and methods of increasing the effectiveness of interaction between participants in the electoral process, as well as organizational aspects of the activities of precinct election commissions on election day, the report said.
got acquainted with the activities of the Araltuz enterprise, in which a project is being implemented to modernize the production of food and technical salt.
As N.Nazarbayev noted, Kazakhstan at the exhibition will show all the possibilities of an alternative energy source, which will be produced not only through wind and water, but also from physical sources: heat, subsoil, biological heat source.
this is 12.4 thousand hectares or 2.3% more than last year.
Head of the TD of Astana, Colonel of the Fire Service, Chairman of the Council of Veterans a. Bekeshev and the chairman of the Council of Women of Tuleubaev congratulated the major of the internal service i.a. Zaichenko, A. danilova and k.k. Abdoualiyev.
The purpose of the event is the formation of inter-ethnic tolerance in the student environment, respect for the history of the Republic of Kazakhstan, attracting students to the current activities of the Kazakh National Agrarian University.
From the monument "Defenders of the Fatherland" in Astana, the eternal flame solemnly caught fire and continued the baton.
It is worth noting that the implementation of the program provides for the creation of companies capable of competing in regional and global markets, an increase in non-primary exports, and a decrease in imports.
In order to further develop cooperation with foreign partners, the Kazakh delegation held bilateral negotiations, including with the head of the Directorate of Tourism of the Ministry of Economy and Energy of Germany, M. Weber, the management of the exhibition and representatives of foreign gardens.
kaztransoil has completely completed the processing of the main oil pipeline.
in addition, there are solar power production sites in South Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions.
In the future, it is planned to install a biogas station for the production of electricity and biofuels from manure, he added.
The head of AKP noted that in 2014, 63 thousand 20 contracts worth 999 billion tenge were concluded under the state order.
At the same time, as he noted, the number of women in the field of production is only 5%, but this figure is growing every day.
we must educate spiritual and moral values ​ ​ in it in such a way that we have an active civic approach, recognizing sustainable development processes as a priority, "he said.
The purpose of the event is to make joint decisions on sectoral issues and important areas on the basis of a dialogue between government and business.
we are grateful that we sincerely preserve the sovereignty of Kazakhstan and keep its people in peace.
the meeting was attended by the director of the school "haileybury almaty" craig holsall.
citizens who start entrepreneurship and want to start their business, learn to draw up business plans, study the work of tax administration, receive basic data necessary for business, "the statement said.
project managers say the program is aimed at saving the government budget.
The representative of the "financial center" of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted that since the adoption of the law on the state funded education system, more than 10.5 thousand funds have been opened in the country, including about 7 thousand funds for pupils of orphanages.
As you know, on the instructions of the Head of State, large-scale work has begun on concluding memoranda on mutual cooperation between akimats of the regions and large enterprises to stabilize production processes and ensure labor rights and guarantees of workers.
the index in agriculture was 101.9%. the index of physical volume of production in agriculture made 101 , 9 % .
As a result of this program, more than 7 thousand jobs were saved, 3 thousand 619 people were employed for new jobs.
I am proud of our achievements and tasks, which the head of state voiced today. today i felt a special pride of the goals , objectives , new programs , new developments , which determined the head of state .
The meeting considered the issues of providing the domestic market with bright oil products, as well as heard reports on the implementation of projects for the processing and modernization of the Pavlodar petrochemical plant, Atyr, Shymkent oil refineries.
In turn, this will give impetus to the socio-economic development of the regions, "said the director of the regional branch of the Development Fund of the South Kazakhstan region.
branch of the Kazakh Research Institute of Eye Diseases includes a department of adults and children, a day hospital, a diagnostic and advisory department, a laser center, a laboratory for training ophthalmologists.
briefing with participation of the deputy of the senate of parliament of RK, the deputy of Mazhilis of parliament of RK of a meyram of a begentayev, the vice-Minister of Education and Science, chairman of special-purpose committee of civil alliance of Kazakhstan on youth policy Sergei Belov, the director of Youth Research Center LLP, the member of council of youth policy at the President of Kazakhstan the Chairman of the board of "National volunteer network".
For comparison, we report that in the previous presidential elections (April 2011), 87 applications were considered in the prosecutor's office, 16 cases of administrative offenses were opened in the revealed violations, during the parliamentary elections in January 2012 the prosecutor's office received 536 applications, 76 acts of prosecutor's supervision were submitted, and 45 administrative cases were opened.
my Kazakhstan train in 30 days visited 29 small and rural settlements.
second-level banks are legalized with the participation of legal entities, whose share is 457,949,5 thousand tenge.
Special attention was paid to the main provisions of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
Head of the Turkish Department of Religious Affairs M. Gremez expressed readiness to further deepen cooperation with fraternal Kazakhstan in the field of spiritual education.
in the structure of retail trade, 58.2% are occupied by non-food and 41.8% food products, "the report said.
in this regard, preparations for an open dialogue on further improvement of investment cooperation and assistance to representatives of Vietnamese business in Kazakhstan were again welcomed.
1.98 billion tenge is provided for these purposes.
According to the Mayor's Office, last school year the number of children under 7 years of age amounted to 27848, this year - 32214, that is, the number of children increased by 4366.
In accordance with the tasks set by the head of state, the government needs to complete the work begun.
The founder of the charitable foundation fon rogge o.igals-horn congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his election to the post of President of Kazakhstan and wished to continue the path aimed at ensuring the further development of the country.
Health and education issues were raised at a meeting in Priozersk, where the Prime Minister visited the recently built Balkhash health center and the medical center of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an arts and sports school with 1000 students.
The heads of state discussed topical issues of Kazakh-Belarusian cooperation and cooperation within the framework of Eurasian economic integration.
intosai is an international organization of the highest financial control bodies of UN member states.
in this regard, the parties agreed to establish direct ties between the regions of Kazakhstan and Belarus.
they separated from the habilhair, forming a state with only its own affiliation and will. they went off to preserve their identity , liberty , it will be a new theory of the formation of statehood of the axiological character .
intensifies the work of health schools on the formation of a healthy lifestyle and various diseases in gloom organizations.
All events will be organized with the support of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	this is the broadest themes of peace , trust , harmony in our common home ,  prokopenko said .
Today at 24.00 o'clock the campaign of candidates will end. the campaign of the candidates will be completed today at 24 : 00 o 'clock .
- It is also planned to transfer the city square of state symbols to the park of the first president, now for this the city is preparing.
The agrarians described the achievements and expressed appreciation for the State's support to the region in the development of agriculture.
I think that under the program, enterprises will be able to take advantage of these support measures.
we always meet him with his family.
The round table was attended by representatives of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan.
nine out of 10 enemy shots were fired in our country.
open parking lots, smart parking lots.
According to him, a feature film is currently developing in the country, in which priority is given.
at the same time, the expert studied the world results.
Also in the Shieli district in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, the Worship Square was built.
scientists, engineers, representatives of the production industry, prominent state and public figures are awarded for special achievements in activities.
the city will develop as a financial and cultural center.
Governor of the Kurgan region A. Kokorin on behalf of the government of the Kurgan region and personally congratulated the President of Kazakhstan on a bright, worthy election victory.
A representative of the Kazakh mukhtar mankeev organization outlined the activities of this business hub.
briefing with the participation of Z.G., Professor, President of the Eurasian Human Rights Center Public Foundation Englik Nurgaliev, Z.D., Professor, Deputy President of the Eurasian Human Rights Center Public Foundation.
Thus, we are in 106th place among 122 countries of the world, "said Mukhtarov.
Note that the volume index in March compared to February increased by 15.5%.
The personnel of the institution, congratulating the war veteran on the 65th anniversary of family life with his wife Fedosya Pavlova, spoke about how Mikhail Ivanovich was wounded in July 1944.
Latvia, for its part, intends to continue to actively influence this process, "the telegram says.
This year, the theme of the festival is dedicated to the anniversary dates of 2015: the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of Kha, the 70th anniversary of Vov.
Kabibollah Jakupov noted that our country contributes to the further development of intercultural, interreligious dialogue between east and west, south and north, and the main platform here is a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
the kindergarten has music and sports halls, a special gym, a touch room, a cinema and an ethnographic museum.
4 million 283 thousand hectares of pasture land are registered in agricultural structures, 3 million 824 thousand hectares are exploited.
On behalf of the people and on his own behalf, he congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.
However, according to the head of the marketing and sales department, since the entry into force of the eo agreement, the plant plans to receive a significant share in the world.
these are power exercises for female soldiers, in particular, (for one minute, for 30 seconds, tilt forward several times, in the second 30th second - bend and rise again several times, resting on the ground with your hand) Relay 9x100m, alpine skiing (24 kg), table tennis, arm wrestling, 4x400m athletics relay and rope swimming.
Recall that today in the capital of Kazakhstan there is a Kazakh-trade business forum, in which about 300 representatives of enterprises and organizations, state bodies, business communities and development institutes of the two countries take part.
the soldier will even send an application to the Guinness Book of Records, "the report said.
I am sure that the results of the ongoing work on updating the strategy will be perceived as a specific program of regional integration for the coming years, which meets all the interests of the region and the EU, "he said.
This process was launched for the first time in the history of the proton launch vehicle in 2015, a total of 402 times.
During the visit, Abdykalikova visited UNESCO headquarters and met with the Director General of the organization and.
before the meeting, a meeting of the bureau of the Majilis of the parliament was held, at which the chairmen of the committees and leaders of the factions of the Majilis spoke and supported the decision of the head of state.
all this is necessary for unity, for the conviction of the country.
the parties also discussed the prospects of Kazakh-Heu cooperation in the field of labor relations.
The purpose of the competition is to develop the intellectual and personal qualities of schoolchildren engaged in research.
In this direction, the Governor instructed the competent authorities to establish work in the field of registration and monitoring.
the opening of a new kindergarten was carried out with the help of the Fund for the Development of Entrepreneurs "Development."
The grand opening took place on April 23, 2015 at the specialized boarding school No. 3 for children of regional significance. the opening took place on 23 april 2015 on the basis of regional specialized boarding school for gifted children № 3 in kokshetau .
veterans of the civil protection system thanked the leadership of the department for their attention and care.
Because the social protection of citizens today is one of the priority priorities of the state, "the deputy said.
Acting Deputy Chairman of the National Security Committee of the country - Director of the Border Guard D. Dilman.
this is a very difficult production, for which it is better to have highly qualified specialists with modern technology.
The Youth Forum "100 Steps of Youth Together with the Country" identified a number of priorities and problematic issues related to youth policy.
Upon arrival in the country, he took an active part in the work on irrigation of crops and sewage.
Constitution Day is a holiday that demonstrates the statehood of our country in Kazakhstan.	as he said , the constitution day of kazakhstan is a holiday that symbolizes the kazakh state .	0,85
nұrly sting. "
According to the regional Governor's Office, 2 large projects are being implemented in the field of housing construction, in particular, the Saryarka residential complex and the area of ​ ​ construction of "friendly" housing.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the annual volume of loans has been completed for all programs.
These changes provide for the creation of alternative opportunities when contacting the portal of public service centers and e-government for the provision of any type of public services, reducing the time for obtaining the results of the provided public service, as well as reducing the number of documents provided, "the Senate Social and Cultural Development Committee said.
v. the formation of an accountable State
the successful functioning of the Kazakhstan national air carrier Air Astana through direct air service - kuala lumpur confirms the growth of tourist flows between the two countries.
military scientists noted that now requirements to the system of preparation of military shots, the military personnel, an image of armed forces in Kazakhstan do not correspond to changes.
in the metal workshop we produce clothes dryers, ironing stoves and other general goods, "the report says.
for our part, we create an enabling environment for investment based on Singapore's experience. we are also creating a good environment for investment , based on the experience of singapore .
The main thing is that we are going to this goal together, "the letter says.
According to the Finnish side, cooperation in the field of education has acquired a new qualitative character: from the first steps to exchange students and scientific and pedagogical personnel, today Kazakhstan and Finland have reached the stage of implementing joint educational programs.
Also, the President of Kazakhstan gratefully accepted the invitation of Xi Jinping to visit China on September 23 this year and take part in the 70th anniversary of the victory in Beijing.
For the first time in Central Asia, Kazakhstan introduced an electronic fund for monitoring HIV infections.
Senators: ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and China on cooperation in the field of disaster management; on the ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, disaster management; ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Additions to the Protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan on checkpoints across the Kazakh-Uzbek state border; Amending and supplementing legislation on restricting State participation in business.
1.n.a. Nazarbayev's statement on giving consent to run as a candidate for president of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
57,718 voters or 0.64% voted for Nursultan Nazarbayev, 8 million 833 thousand 250 people, or 97.75%, 145 thousand 756 voters or 1.061% voted for Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said K. Turgankulov.
M.Nazarbayev praised the results of the 4th Anshk Summit in Shanghai, where practical mechanisms for strengthening confidence-building measures and cooperation in Asia were developed.
An agreement was reached on sending a trade and economic mission to Kazakhstan this year as part of the Romanian entrepreneurs of the Prahov region.
15 families out of 80 people.
at the enlarged government meeting, the head of state instructed to ensure employment of the population and preserve social tasks.
the new outpatient clinic has more than 40 rooms, including a medical room, ultra-sound research facilities, physical therapy, and reception rooms for a child doctor.
in order to improve the system of awarding the state prize for achievements in the field of science and technology, literature and art, I decide:
Dutch equipment contributes to the long-term storage of potatoes. the dutch equipment will provide long-term storage of potatoes .
Reforming the city's public transport requires a lot of money, so we attract investors. as the reform of public transport of the city requires huge financial resources , we have attracted investors .
"- noted the senior officer of the department of educational and ideological work, the senior lieutenant of the sembayev genre.
According to him, the head of state defined everything that we need to develop, our tasks.
Following the meeting, state bodies were instructed to make proposals to improve the efficiency of personnel work, the ethics of employee conduct, taking into account the best international practices and their own experience.
it is based on the assessment of personal qualities, capabilities, performance by collecting points.
then I haven't broken up with sports yet.
also in Almaty, Zhambyl, East Kazakhstan, South Kazakhstan regions.
The Chairman of the Board of the Fund for the Development of Entrepreneurship Development noted that the number of subsidies and guarantees provided in the North Kazakhstan region will be among the top three.
During the meeting, issues related to the process and timing of collecting signatures in support of presidential candidates, the legal basis for the linguistic commission, the work of the Central Election Commission on training election organizers, providing methodological means for participants in the election process, the actions of the CEC during the campaign, ensuring equal access for all candidates, the procedure for filing and considering complaints and appeals were discussed.
Another accent logistics LLC is a multimedia transport and logistics center designed for 2800 seats.
The purpose of the forum is to discuss and expert assessment of the role of regions in the development of Kazakhstan.
On this day, the Minister of Agriculture examined the work of a naked elevator.
As the deputy director of ksi noted, according to forecasts, the situation in the global economy will worsen this year and in the near future.
Mr. Toivo Klaar said that cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union reached a new level after the official visit of the head of the Kazakh state to Brussels.
- We instruct to provide access to information on medium- and long-term development plans, demand for goods, work and services, "the deputy concluded.
the first place in the nomination of the Association of Kazakhstani Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan went to the capital's makhambet bekzat, the second place was taken by the Ural mukhambet major, the third place was taken by a resident of the Taldykorgan Renata Evseev.
compatibility of work and the ability of each crew member (tank commander, gunner-operator, driver mechanic) to quickly overcome a given distance only with full understanding of himself and the general task, as well as accurately provide for various targets located at a distance of 900 to 2,200 meters.
a number of enterprises have achieved an increase in production. also , a number of companies achieved the increase in the production volumes .
Tavares noted that Kazakhstani youth have good performance in training and constantly improve their qualifications.
At the end of the meeting, the parties noted the need to further strengthen cooperation in the law enforcement sphere.
During the meeting, the emir's father congratulated the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on the start of his diplomatic mission in a neighboring state and noted the high potential of Kazakh-parallel relations, the Foreign Ministry said.
According to him, the adopted law increased publication of publications of Kazakh scientists in journals by 3 times.
one of them - Maek-kazatomprom LLP - allocated a land plot for the construction of a kindergarten.
if the activities provided do not meet the requirements, in this case economic measures are taken by the department.
According to him, over the years, the EEO has taken significant steps in developing cooperation with key trading partners, as evidenced by the agreement with Vietnam on a free trade zone.
As part of the implementation of the barrier-free future project, employers were invited to the job fair, opening places for people with disabilities.
Within the framework of the 2nd stage of the State Program for the Development of Health Care of Kazakhstan "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015 (2014-2015), the implementation of the principles of a unified national health care system at the outpatient level has begun, the functioning of railways with the issuance of part of the duties of individual specialists has been expanded, mechanisms for motivation of doctors of Msak organizations have been introduced.
In addition, last year, 15 mini-football pitches and 81 hockey courts were opened in the region.
This year, Commonwealth parliamentarians will visit the CIS headquarters - a solemn plenary meeting of the Tauride Palace dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945.
".
Zh. Tuymebayev reported to the Head of State on the state and prospects of development of bilateral relations with Turkey, noting the high indicators of cooperation in the trade and economic sphere.
During the meeting, an expert discussion was held on five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
leather marat chadethanov,
The interlocutors expressed interest in deepening bilateral relations in all areas of legal cooperation, as well as their readiness to expand the legal framework, including signing an interstate treaty on the extradition of convicted persons.
This year, potatoes and melons will be planted on the bestam site belonging to the village of Novadaria by drip irrigation.
Over the two years of the pilot project, 92,1,502 thousand square meters of housing or 6 apartments were put into operation.
The Governor also noted that the "sypaga" program is successfully implemented in the region.
It is planned to allocate 67,440 thousand tenge to increase the salaries of teachers who have improved their qualifications.
students practically used electrical devices.
in stepnogorsk, a project was introduced to grow sturgeon fish with a capacity of 60 tons per year.
The Secretary of State praised the work of Comrade Karman on the road to "the struggle for the security of women without violence and the right of women to participate in peace," recognized in 2011 with a Nobel Prize.
Within the framework of 3 directions, Atau will receive 3 certificates of qualification from the training center, "said K. Borisov.
The Secretary of State stressed that the five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state are aimed at the qualitative renewal of state institutions, improving the effectiveness of economic programs, improving the quality of public services and implementing large-scale infrastructure projects.
members of the Aluminum of Kazakhstan labor collective also expressed support for the initiative, noting that the holding of presidential elections this year will allow the people, as well as all executive and representative authorities, to focus on the implementation of the tasks set.
The Deputy Chairman of the Senate also informed a.tileikhan about the readiness for the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions and expressed gratitude to the Mongolian side for its constant participation in the religious forum.
The main goal of the bill is to improve the quality and accessibility of medical care, bringing existing legislation in line with international standards.
- An integration association based on the principles of equality of interests, pragmatism and periodicity can strengthen our states and economies in difficult conditions of global crisis.
veterans not only thanked for the concert, but also expressed their wishes to future officers of the armed forces.
During the conversation, Ms. Pickering became interested in the peculiarities of the Kazakh electoral system, the types of financing of election campaigning of candidates, voter turnout on polling day and other relevant issues related to election procedures.
It is worth noting that the regional command of the "capital" plans to organize many events in honor of the day of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
Mayor of the city Akhmetzhan Yessimov, veterans of the Second World War, employees of departments of the armed forces, students of military educational institutions and public organizations took part in the event, the Governor's office of the city reported.
On the eve of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, military personnel are developing many actions, memorable gifts, social events and traditional assistance for militants.
and unified technical support for all services included in this system makes it unprecedented in the Kazakh market and very convenient for subscribers.
at a meeting with the Chairman of the Presidium of the NPP Timur Kulibaev, the need to create a national association of builders of Kazakhstan was announced.	chairman of the presidium of nce rk timur kulibayev supported the need to establish the national association of builders of kazakhstan .	0,85
life expectancy - 71.1 years (2013 -70.29).	life expectancy increased up to 71.1 years ( 70.29 in 2013 ) .	0,85
The meeting was attended by heads of central and local executive bodies, the Prosecutor General's Office, federations of national and trade unions.	regulation of labor relations in some regions of the country , prevention of social tensions and ensure labor rights and social protection of workers considered during the event .	0,85
The festival started on November 15, 2014 with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, Astana and Almaty, regional and district akimats.	the festival is carried out since november of last year within the celebration of the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan under support of the ministry of culture and sports of kazakhstan and mayor 's office of astana and almaty as well as regional administrations .	0,85
they all note the high level of organization of elections, which, in their assessment, is a vivid manifestation of transparent, transparent and fair elections.	they also said about the highest level of the organization of elections , which they estimated as an example of a transparent , open and fair election , that correspond to all international standards .	0,85
I immediately want to warn colleagues from the district that the application to the school will be accepted only if the design estimates for the new standard project are ready, the minister explained.
in addition, military musicians performed about thirty popular melodies of Soviet and Kazakhstani composers, and pilots as part of a separate and aerobatic groups demonstrated their skill by creating top aerobatic painting.
strategic plans of state bodies, development programs of cities of Almaty, the capital and regions and measures to improve the quality of life.
the initiative was reviewed, supported and addressed to me accordingly. besides the houses of parliament also support the idea and sent the relevant addresses to me .
our people have demonstrated a high level of unity, cohesion around their leader, showing wisdom for future generations at the most crucial points in the history of the country. through the years the kazakh people demonstrated the highest level of unity , consolidation around the leader , showing wisdom for the sake of next generations .
Despite the fact that Mikhail Ivanovich went on vacation a lot, he still shares his accumulated experience, teaches how to protect order and the law, "said Anna Izikeeva, an employee of the NK-161/3 institution.
hardworking residents of the Kostanay region are always ready to support you, "the authors write.
Today, the European Union is one of the largest partners of Kazakhstan in all areas.
The head of the region visited the spring field fields in each district, met with the akims of rural districts, peasants. in every district , the head of the region visited the cultivated area and met with farmers .
He also noted that "with a diploma we are talking about programs such as the village," the green country, "which also have good indicators.
The thousands of mangistauaumunaigaz team took with great inspiration the news of Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev about participation in the upcoming presidential elections.
they took part in the discussion of issues of scientific and methodological improvement of work on strengthening Kazakhstan patriotism and tolerance among youth studying in the online format.
at the same time, the bulk of the budget is in the area of SMEs.
This year, the action is held in honor of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the great victory and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan
a modern, professional, centralized state apparatus aimed at Kazakhstan's social modernization, protection of the rule of law and private property rights, sustainable economy and the future of a single nation, the state of public accounting is aimed at creating a modern state for all of us. the main directions are : formation of modern professional state apparatus , rule of law and protection of property rights , stable economy , and nation united future , transparent and accountable government .
In 2014, 6 airports of this group experienced stability in the transportation of passengers and cargo. in 2014 , the steady growth in freight and passenger traffic was observed in a group of the airports .
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, earlier this flag was taken from the hands of the President of the International Federation of University Sports (fisu) of Claude-louis galene on the granada of the xxvii Winter Universiades.
I am sure that the close, mutually beneficial economic and humanitarian relations that connect Russia and fraternal Kazakhstan will continue to develop, "the author writes.
measures in this direction will be implemented gradually and in a coordinated manner, "said N. Shukeev.
representatives of railway administrations of the CIS countries, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
for services to the Fatherland he was awarded the orders "barys," "daryn" and "respect."
then the chairman of the kuandyk ganguly central election commission will hand Nursultan Nazarbayev the presidential certificate.
It is reported that this conference is the first event of the national plan approved by the Government of Kazakhstan, dedicated to the celebration of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Following the meeting, he invited Smith to participate in the round table "Fair judicial system and sustainable legislation - the basis of an attractive investment climate," which will be held in Astana on February 6 this year.
Deputy Chairman of the Central Election Commission V. Suleiman, Head of the Financial Control Department of the Apparatus of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mukhametov m., Chairman of the Almaty City Territorial Election Commission b. dormants, chairmen, secretaries and members of territorial and precinct election commissions of the city, Heads of regional governor's offices, proxies of candidates for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, international and domestic observers, as well as representatives of the media and others.
we will continue to finance long-term projects in order to create new jobs and achieve the production of agricultural products, "said the acting chairman of the board.
Thus, during the same period, more than 29 thousand illegal acts were changed and violated under the acts of the prosecutor's response, of which 191 normative legal acts, 50 of which were registered with the justice authorities.
This is how we celebrate the victory of our president in the elections and his inauguration today.
we must work with you to analyse migration processes.
the minister got acquainted with the work of a large black earth complex of the commercial dairy direction "rza" in the Kazalinsky district.
if they are not properly indicated.
During the meeting with the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Gulmira Isaeva, the issues of involving experts in the organization of aquaculture and fisheries in Kazakhstan were discussed.
elderly people gave will to their emotions and received tears in the eyes, "the Ministry of Defense said.
However, despite the introduction of mixed-type clinics, children are admitted separately, there is a separate registration place for children and a separate entrance to the clinic, "the report said.
During the conversation, the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan informed about the work of the courts to consider civil cases in relation to disputes arising between entrepreneurs and state bodies.
antitrust legislation of all three states should be aimed primarily at supporting domestic business.
As noted by the Tawfik al-Rabiya, Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia are members of the community that are interested in the joint implementation of all the proposals of this international organization.
In addition, the Chinese Ambassador noted the importance of celebrating the 550th anniversary of Kazakh statehood and recalled that this is a significant day for the people of Kazakhstan.
the parties expressed interest in implementing housing construction in the region, developing housing infrastructure and providing the population with high-quality social housing.
more than 5,000 military personnel, about 220 units of modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aviation equipment will take part in the large-scale parade.
business must necessarily communicate to the relevant authorities the negatives arising from trade with countries such as Iran and Egypt, which create a free trade zone. business should report on existing barriers in trade with eeu 's partners of free trade zones , such as iran or egypt . , " - ara nranyan said .
At the same time, as the head of the department noted, the legislative framework of the document is drawn up in accordance with the standards of the states of organizations of economic cooperation and development.
the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of tasks related to the observance of a single trade policy within the eurozone.
Together with the leader of the nation, our country will become even stronger, "the authors write.
During the meeting, the participants exchanged views on the need to promote culture, traditions, customs.
arrived at home, worked as a miner at the pond field and retired.
the launch of a new bakery, the development of single-industry towns, implemented at the initiative of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, "the head of the region said in a congratulatory speech.
According to the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, M.Zholdasbayev has become one of the international observers of the interparliamentary assembly of the CIS countries, and Dr. Kustavletov.
we recently acquired a modern thermal imager, were surprised when students took to the streets of Almaty and measured the heat of panel houses. we recently purchased the thermal imager and when students went out and measured the building , they were very surprised .
According to the Governor of the region, thanks to the policy of the head of state, peace and harmony between nations and religions in society triumph at their level.
in our country, great attention is paid to health care, Kazakhstan is striving for the level of developed countries in terms of allocated funds in this area.
In addition, a test of combat security skills, compliance with the rules of use of force, organization of searches of people and vehicles, detection of explosives, organization of communications and negotiations in accordance with international standards, military-civilian activities, service at a control post and first aid, evacuation of the wounded is being carried out.
such gifts are very popular among tourists from all over the world.
four of them - 3 citizens from the Kingdom of Norway, the Austrian and Serbian republics, 2 citizens from the Bulgarian and Lithuanian republics, 1 observer from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Hungarian, Latvian and Slovak republics, as well as 30 observers of the eku/diakb mission from 18 states.
In turn, A. Berzins expressed great interest in the country's participation in EXPO-2017, noting the relevance of the exhibition theme for all mankind and expressed readiness to familiarize himself with Latvia's new research in the field of alternative energy sources.
dear seventies!	dear citizens !	0,86
In 2014, as part of the measures taken, more than 206.9 billion tenge was returned to the budget (2013). 133.4 billion tenge).	- 133.4 billion tenge ) .	0,86
In 2014, more than 600 foreign scientists in various scientific areas were involved in work in Kazakhstan, 75 of them Kazakhstanis.	more than 600 foreign scientists including 75 kazakhstani ones attracted for work in various scientific fields last year .	0,86
However, judging by the complaints of residents, the situation has not changed dramatically, "said the mayor of the city. Jaksybekov.
this document will be an additional tool for identifying priority and mutually beneficial areas of cooperation.
the winner will be recognized as worthy of the title of "sniper of the year" according to kasotc.
depending on the form of ownership, 49 of the total number of universities are state, in which 232,072 people study, or 48.6% of the total number of students.
Behind this is the undermining of the common people, "said the head of state.
Modern rehabilitation centers equipped with new technologies should be opened near boarding houses, "said D. Akhmetov.
The Head of State also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Subsoil Use," aimed at improving the legislation on subsoil use.
However, as part of the Uiid state program, the company launched the production of drillers for drilling at high depths.
strengthening economic growth through early presidential elections, ensuring continuity of policies.
here you can compile and study the necessary options and prototypes of the service model, as well as use them completely.
It is worth noting that over the past 10 years, 50 oil companies have been opened in Kazakhstan, the total reserves of which in categories a, c, c1 amounted to 164 million tons, and in c2 - 169 million tons, - said U. karabalin.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the significant role of the sphere of culture in the country, the importance of improving the necessary conditions, including the creation of appropriate infrastructure for its development.
during this time he mastered the orientation technique, the mountain relief of rocks and all objects of rocky slopes to mountain rivers, studied the endurance and tactics of warfare in the mountains.
The qualifying stage is held from May 18 to 20 of this year in order to identify military-professional skill among the servicemen of friendly armies.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the implementation by Russia together with China of large projects in the oil and gas industry, the construction of communications will allow the Russian economy to attract the Asian region, which also has positive dynamics for further development.
Work on reforming public services should have continued, but there are delays in this matter, "the head of state said.
The aim of the action is to unite Kazakhstani youth and raise the patriotic spirit.
but, in order to get to the new market, you need to recognize that the departure of someone from this market is legal, "said N. Radostovets.
The purpose of this event is to train dog handlers, krazov-255kp drivers and explosive specialists.
It is a great honor to award medals to our courageous compatriots. you are real heroes , an example of boundless courage and bravery .
the process of accepting work with legal entities and individuals on the principle of "one window" - blocking corruption.
In addition, Issekeshev added that for the development of the Eurasian transcontinental corridor, much attention is paid to transportation in the following areas.
With the support of unisef, work is underway to transition Kazakhstan to new standards for the implementation of the Hague Convention.
Recall that in Astana, 92,000 people take part in the environmental subbotnik "We support a clean city."
diplomats also discussed the prospects for cooperation between the two countries within the framework of international organizations.
there are no such "smart" pavilions in Kazakhstan.
The head of state paid special attention to the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, which was given special importance to the capital.
It is very accessible, "he said.
the meeting was attended by heads of structural and regional divisions of the agency.
visiting the regional rehabilitation center for children with disabilities, a children's technical school, an emergency medical station, a cardiology center, preschool and extracurricular education facilities.
As of January 1, 2015, 1,283 applications for legalization of 2,416 real estate objects were received in the region. as of january 1 , 2015 the region received 1,283 applications for legalization of 2,416 real estate objects .
According to the results of the competition, the winners were determined: talipov Dmitry from the Zhambyl region, mustubayev elvir from the West Kazakhstan region, sidors Alexander from the Kostanay region, vasilenko raisa from the capital.
This event is dedicated to the President's message to the people, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan, the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Vice Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan - Co-Chair of the Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation of Kazakhstan and Japan on Public and Private Sectors.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. with a warm welcome to the Nazarbayev, "the statement said.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, it is planned to install a special bas-relief dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
summing up, no country in the world has experienced such cases as demographic decline and disappearance, such as the Kazakh country. consequently , no country in the world , no nation experienced a break in their fate , in their demographics and stood in front of the abyss of the complete disappearance as the kazakh people .
With regard to the potential of Middle Eastern exports, Iran is the main export of grain. as for the middle east prospects , generally as you know , the main exporter of our grain is iran .
In the presence of straw paper, pulp will be produced and provide Kazakhstan paper mills with the necessary raw materials.
Our main goal is to show our country as a dynamically developing state with a large history. our main objective - is to show that we are a modern , dynamically developing country with a glorious past .
Everyone who was recognized as the best at the festival will perform on behalf of the West Kazakhstan region at a gala concert, which will be held in the capital in honor of the International Day for the Protection of Children on June 1.
According to the Nұr Otan party, according to Skype, residents of remote settlements can appeal to the public reception of the party, as well as to members of the Nұr Otan faction - to the leaders of maslikhats, central and local state bodies.
the main problem of cyclist safety, therefore, within the framework of the "astana abike" project, employees of the Internal Affairs Department of Astana are actively raising awareness about the rules of the road and the safety of cyclists.
and for the rest, this stimulates an increase in the level of their education, combat discipline and training.
the telegram says that the head of state was shocked by the news of the death of Kazakhstanis in a plane crash.
We need to study the experience of the country that is engaged in rice cultivation, "said the akim of the region.
I went to a Canadian university.
Thus, the Aul party stated that in these elections they would not nominate candidates.
Also, in a single electric energy system, the task of the national electric system is performed by kegoc, which is based on 297 power lines, the length of which is 24.4 thousand km.
According to the director of KM Rymagambetova, the purpose of the action is to give children joy and a holiday.
As an economist, I want to say that today the Asian economy is growing rapidly, "said A. Nurpeisov.
The main issue on the council's agenda is the preparation of a draft protocol on the conditions for the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Eurasian Economic Union. the main issue was to prepare a draft protocol on the conditions of accession of the kyrgyz republic to the eurasian economic union .
As T.Duissenova noted, this year the head of state set the task to ensure employment of the population.
Israeli entrepreneurs were informed about the ways of doing business in Kazakhstan and received detailed information on the progress of public procurement.
"This union has great potential," Gennady Chufrin said at a round table on "Global Test Time: New Threats."
the mobile application was created to provide the population of Kazakhstan with the most popular services of the e-government portal in manual mode.
The main tasks of the certification are to determine the professional and business qualities and potential capabilities of each soldier.
Recall that in January of this year, the Ministry of Investment and Development announced an open competition to choose the concessionaire of the Big Almaty Ring Road project.
The President also noted that for the first time in Kazakhstan, 1,200 kilometers of the railway connecting the Caspian Sea with the Chinese coast were built.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, out of the total number of jobs created - 787 permanent (including 688 in the countryside).
no more happiness and rewards for me.
In particular, on March 30 this year, the Almaty city prosecutor's office took precautions against two residents of the southern capital. in particular , on march 30 , the prosecutor 's office in almaty announced warnings of violating the law to two residents .
In accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 87 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, upon taking office of the newly elected President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the termination of the powers of the akims of the cities of the capital and Almaty, the regions, the akims of the cities of the capital and Almaty will fulfill their duties until the appointment of the corresponding akims.
they are encouraged and proficient in negotiating languages.
according to him, the influx of youth into science will increase.
32 - produce finished products, 19 - produce products with high cost, "the akim said.
Participants of the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan noted that this measure proved with confidence that the idea of tolerance, friendship and brotherhood remains the main values ​ ​ of the Kazakh people.
As noted by the amaniasis of yerzhanov, work continues in a number of regions to organize a forum of local content.
gradually they will be replaced by Kazakhstani specialists who will be able to teach English, "said E. Imangaliev.
children read poems about the defenders of the Fatherland and performed the song "Not always sunny."
I thought how the state would be established then.
dear head of state, the fate of our people is with you.
In conclusion, the head of state noted that the main sources of financing for measures aimed at implementing important projects within the country were determined last year.
In turn, akim of Arshalyn district congratulated veterans on Victory Day.
now they will be strengthened by creating a common market for gas, oil and petroleum products between the EU countries, "said the Vice Minister.
The bill is designed to regulate the application of special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries.
I believe that an important attribute of the stability of Kazakhstan is the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, which should be supported by all people, "said the leader of the nation.
According to the Ministry of Finance, 25,455 residential facilities worth 202.9 billion tenge, 13,461 non-residential facilities worth 80.5 billion tenge were received, of which 3,324 commercial facilities worth 56.1 billion tenge, 14 interests of legal entities worth 0.7 billion tenge, securities worth 2.5 billion tenge.
At the evening dedicated to Kazakhstan, a film about the republic was shown, as well as a concert of the creative group "Return."
The executive director of the shell concern noted that the results of the past elections indicate high confidence and support of the Kazakh people.
we talk a lot about achieving Kazakhstan's level in the financial sector. now there are new opportunities to improve the status of kazakhstan as a regional leader in the financial sector .
The first round of this year will begin in the metropolis from the republic square at the intersection of Satpaev and Dekabristov streets.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Thai cooperation in the field of ecology and green economy were discussed.
representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will hold a book campaign "Invaluable Wealth" dedicated to neutrality and harmony.
The main rear of World War II was in Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that when providing a new policy, initiatives are needed that will intensify business and employment taking into account the risks of economic development. the president of kazakhstan introducing the new political policy of kazakhstan said that taking into account the new risks of economic development we need new initiatives to stimulate the economic activity and employment .
in society there is a clear idea that further socio-economic success of the country is largely possible only due to your role as head of state, leader of the nation.	according to the letter , long held perception of the society is further socio-economic progress of the country is largely made possible by your exceptional role as head of state , the nation 's leader .	0,86
The volume of oil refining in 2014 amounted to 14,911 thousand tons instead of the planned 14,889 thousand tons.	the volume of oil refining in 2014 amounted to 14.911 thousand tons .	0,86
aa. Idrissov noted that ethnic Germans who previously lived and currently live in Kazakhstan play the role of a link between the two countries.	ye.idrissov emphasized that ethnic germans living and living in kazakhstan are important link between the two countries .	0,86
as part of this charity event, an overhaul of the apartment of rotten Ivan Ivanovich was carried out.
This year, work will continue on the construction of a small ring road, within the framework of which the construction of a section of Beisekova Street from Vyzhanak Street to Kurgan Highway will be completed, as well as construction work will continue on the section of Beisekova Street from Kurgan Highway to Tlendiev Avenue, the report said.
the Karaganda factory of oriental tastes already in June sends more than 1 ton of its products to the city of Xi'an.
secondly, rural employment.
The first five-year plan of the program of forced industrial-innovative development in the south introduced the production of new previously unprecedented technological and pharmaceutical products. the region developed such new products as manufacturing of carpets , bitumen , cellulose , motor oils , glass , plastic pipes and many other modern technological and pharmaceutical products .
In this direction, the state provided great support for agricultural workers, "said the director of the Department of Internal Audit and Control of the Ministry of Agriculture Amankos Shankiev.
n. a. In support of Nazarbayev's candidacy, 560,523 right-wing signatures of voters representing 16 regions of the country were collected.
the city centre should be attractive to young people. the city center is to attract young people .
$2.6 billion in loans from the World Bank and the European Bank will be raised for this purpose.
in the field of agriculture, strong state support is being carried out.
the medical assistance train will provide emergency and qualified assistance to those in need for 3 days at the bestamak station.
According to him, panel sessions are very popular, the number of participants in these sessions is growing.
It is worth noting that such centers work in all regions of the republic.
the leadership of the eastern regional command pays special attention to the military-patriotic education of young people.
During the First World War, events related to the Dardanel operation took place in the Chanakalla region.
in addition, the capacity of the chairman's private business has decreased.
And the enterprise will have the opportunity to train the specialist he needs without training additional specialists, "the ministry said.
z. According to Chumakova, the entire population of Kazakhstan is participating in the process of unified unity.
projects implemented in this regard will lead to stability and good life in the region.
According to Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP of Kazakhstan Nurzhan Altayev, the project is not a single action and is not a campaign event.
For the participants, a broadcast of the military parade on Қaza eli Square in the capital from the led screen was shown.
Israeli President R.Rivlin on behalf of the people of the country and on his own behalf sent congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, I want to convey to you all the opportunities to ensure that your visits and work in them are successful, "said K.rasulzodo.
this will lead not only to the upgrading of the skills of specialists, but also to the strengthening of relations between States within the framework of the Collective Security Treaty Organization.
in addition, the situation in Ukraine and related sanctions against Russia, the current state of the Russian ruble, are affecting.
this center is designed to treat diseases of the respiratory tract, cardiovascular, neurological, bone muscles, genitourinary system.
During the implementation of the affordable housing program 2020, the property fund is developing 15 projects, the total area of ​ ​ which is 659 thousand square meters.
For five years, the fund has achieved great success in supporting domestic business. for five years , the fund has achieved significant results in support of domestic business .
representatives of the creative intelligentsia also exchanged views on the preservation and reproduction of the cultural heritage of the multinational country, ensuring citizens' access to cultural values, and improving international humanitarian cooperation.
To strengthen their own production, to increase competition, in my opinion, entrepreneurs and producers need to take special measures.
He informed the participants on the approval of the organization of Islamic cooperation in the capital of the Islamic organization for food security, the formation of a system for the provision of official humanitarian assistance, including the kazaid agency, preparations for the international exhibition Expo 2017, and the promotion of the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
among them are works of fine art, textile and sculptural art, according to the national chamber.
Within the framework of the agreement reached, the national nuclear company committed itself to socio-infrastructure development, improving the level of well-being and quality of life of the population of the region.
The meeting also discussed the development of bilateral partnership between the city of Vco and Lyon.
detailed why the national fund was attracted, what social and economic program the funds of the fund are spent on, who is monitoring it and how.
In addition, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that this visit of the Lithuanian delegation will become a trophy, and thanked Lithuania for supporting the entry into force of Kazakhstan.
The Ambassador informed about the main theses of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "The Way to the Future."
therefore, accurate targeting of various targets located at a distance of 900 to 2,200 meters, along with rapid submission of a given route, is carried out only thanks to the coordinated work and understanding of each crew member (tank commander, sensor operator, mechanical driver) of an individual and general task.
The sides also discussed promising projects of trade and economic cooperation and cooperation between the two countries in the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
Within the framework of the forum, labor contracts were also signed between employers of the city of Ridder and immigrants under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
Nuryshev expressed readiness for further development of mutually beneficial cooperation with China in bilateral and multilateral formats.
Following yesterday's meeting, a memorandum was signed with the largest industrial companies in the world in the amount of $1 billion. the sides signed 8 memorandums for 1 billion dollars with large industrial companies .
Deputy Prime Minister instructed the Ministry of Health and Social Development together with the akimats of the regions, Astana and Almaty, the Organization of Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan to work out the issues of simplifying the procedure for establishing seniority during the Second World War by the date of birth of citizens without requesting archival certificates and other supporting documents.
It is noted that representatives of the health department of Almaty, kazmubu and specialists from abroad will work together in Almaty polyclinics for three years.
In addition, according to the chairman of the board, companies that have suffered losses may be exempted from this payment.
The forum can be attended by schoolchildren, students, graduate students, young scientists and specialists aged 16 to 35 years.
The event was attended by students of the Faculty of History of KSU named after Sh. Valikhanova, heads of passenger, youth organizations and the garden of Kokshetau Bus Park LLP in Kokshetau.
however, in the current situation, special attention should be paid to maintaining domestic political stability, eliminating the causes leading to social and labor conflicts.
In accordance with section 5 of the bill, the National Guard provides for the possibility of paying off military debt.	the draft law defined the composition and organization of the national guard .	0,86
According to M. Mukhanov, in this regard, the program "Way to the Future," which the head of state raised in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, became an important tool.
According to the director of the college, 216 students study at the college this academic year.
in addition, infantrymen are most often used in the practice of peacekeeping operations, "said Mukhtarov.
poultry farm products are supplied to the diamond market, kostanai, karaganda, as well as eye and sko.
In turn, the chairman of the commission, K. Sultanov, thanked the party's special rapporteur for constructive cooperation in the field of protection and promotion of human rights and expressed readiness for further constructive cooperation with the commission's twin institutions.
moreover, according to the expert, given the specifics of the geographical location of Kazakhstan, this will contribute to the development of new transport and logistics opportunities.
thanked the Latvian side for its interest in g-global and called for active participation in the proposed dialogue.
I want to emphasize that the high price of the leader of the nation belongs to every citizen of our country, "said the head of the region.
During the Kazakh-Russian forum aimed at the development of cross-border cooperation between the two countries, a plan was signed to implement the Agreement between the akimat of Kostanay region and the government of Chelyabinsk region on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation for 2015-2018.
a good neighbor is even more than a close relative - the people with betrayal.
I still remember the film about the hero-sniper aliyah Moldagul, always dreamed of his courage and going to him. i well remember a movie about sniper aliya moldagulova , i admired her courage and wanted to be like her .
The head of state also instructed the relevant state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan to provide the necessary assistance to the families of the victims, identify the bodies of the victims and deliver them to their homeland, the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that the 316th division under the command of Major General and Panfilov. formed in Almaty region.
this is evidenced by the assessments of Kazakh experts and the achievements of the country.
The participants were also informed in detail about the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "nұrly zhol."
Thus, after the implementation of the first stage, the feedlot of Pavlodar region will contain 7,000 cattle.
Talas Mukhamedzhan,
The Minister of Kazakhstan urged his colleague to pay attention to the opportunities opened for Hungarian entrepreneurs in the framework of the new economic policy, especially projects in various areas of infrastructure development, taking into account Hungary's experience in the green economy.
on the one hand, it is a public organization, and on the other, it is not a public organization, because it is governed by the president.
the work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the region, ethnocultural associations, friendship houses contributes to the preservation of a favorable inter-ethnic situation in the region.
Kazakhstan was the first CIS country to become a market economy. kazakhstan is the first cis country that has a market economy system .
The Park on Children's Rights assessed the potential of the Kazakh juvenile court. "
Following the meeting, an interstate agreement was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Principality of Monaco on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.
it is planned to gradually introduce new types of activities of tullar-talgo trains in business, grand cars.
According to the Chairman of the Board of Kazneftegaz South Mynbaev, the creation of a combined enterprise will create new drilling solutions for kmg.
In addition, work was completed on the construction of an ore demining conveyor at the Nurkazgan deposit, the reconstruction of the Balkash and pine processing plants.
he performed on such famous stages of the world as la rock, regio, massimo theater in palermo, arenia di verona, royal parma theater, city firenze theater, theaters of the cities of San Carlo, Naples.
the government was completely re-elected, the corps of akims remained unchanged, which suggests that today it is impossible to spend one day in the void. the government , body governors remained unchanged , it proves that we don 't have any chances to lose a day .
Since the beginning of the project, 45-50 thousand pieces have been collected from the cabin, grown on a temporary pond and sent to the Small Island Sea. since the beginning of the project more than 45-50 thousand pieces of barbel 's fry were caught in the rice fields and they were temporarily grown in the ponds and left in the north aral sea .
it was attended by representatives of Kazakhstan, Bulgaria, Russia.
The emir also expressed interest in participating in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
observance of the principle of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the main priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
New fixed assets worth KZT13385.9 mln were introduced in the manufacturing industry for the current period.
The experience of organizing national advisory centers engaged in arguing the ethics of scientific research is available in many foreign countries - mainly Great Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands, Finland and other representatives of UNESCO told Kazakh colleagues about their programs in the field of bioethics.
As of January 1, 2015, 19,656 people were registered in the region receiving special state benefits, of which 2,315 were children under 16 years old, the report said.
In an interview with representatives of local and foreign media, the Speaker of the Senate noted the historical significance of the elections for Kazakhstan.
in his congratulation, Mr. Tereshchenko noted that the people of Kazakhstan are showing the example of a reliable friend and partner, following the head of state, which indicates the results of the national vote.
an animated film should be created as a studio independent of the Kazakh film. "
The participants of the meeting discussed the development of projects within the framework of the industrialization map, the turnover of Kazakh commodity products, as well as entrepreneurs of the region.
Further, the head of the city department of architecture and urban planning, m.tleubaev. presented a landscaping scheme around a number of business objects.
One of the main measures of dedollarization is the emergence of public confidence in the national currency, as well as the possibility of increasing the volume of guarantee of tenge deposits in commercial banks. in general , as one of the measures considered dedollarization increase public confidence in the national currency and considered such measures as may increase in guarantee deposits in tenge in commercial banks .
Recall that in Astana, 92,000 people took part in the environmental subbotnik "We support a clean city."
In addition, Kazakhstan is currently implementing a large-scale program to improve transport assets, covering all types of transport, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, they congratulated the front-line soldier Cyrillic thousand on the 90th anniversary in the republican center of medical care for veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
Also, this document, aimed at stimulating partner countries, can be used by other states in making political decisions and adjusting and reforming the national energy sector, "said the head of the European Union representative office in Kazakhstan, aurelia bushes.
The main tool of efficiency is the timely implementation of the allocated funds, - said the owner.
New Year's blue goat color circus fairy tale. "
I am sure that we will be able to overcome the current unstable economic situation together with the leadership of the leader of the nation, "said the director of Zinchenko and to Gennady Zinchenko.
therefore, every effort will be made to ensure the employment of citizens seeking employment. every effort will be used to ensure the employment of citizens who are in search of work .
a new system and a grading pay system.
the company has warehouses for storing raw materials and finished products, a fleet and a laboratory, a pocket shop, a flour mill and pasta production.
firstly, it is the eastern coast from the inland Chinese province to the countries of the Eurasian Union, to Europe through Kazakhstan and Russia. first direction is the east coast of china 's inland provinces to the countries of the eurasian union and europe through kazakhstan and russia .
it damages our independence, which directly affects the improvement of the living conditions of the Kazakhstani people. "
In his speech, the Secretary of State noted that today, on behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, systematic work is being carried out to form a national historical consciousness, aimed at rehabilitating victims of political repression, studying and preserving the historical heritage, promoting the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
our team is making every effort to implement this and does not ignore the obligations voiced in the message to strategic goals in education, "the teachers said.
Recall that the information system "State database" e-licensing "was created with the aim of automating the process of issuing permits and licenses.
Taking into account the wishes of the Chairman (Marshal) of the Polish Senate, an agreement was reached on the organization of his official visit to Kazakhstan this year.
Once every half year, samruk-kazyna submits its proposals to the white board of directors.
2 shares of legal entities in the amount of KZT3.0 million; securities in the amount of 670 tenge; 10 objects worth 228.2 billion tenge were legalized.
party conference participants also discussed the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program and control over the effective use of budget funds.
an increase in the number of educational institutions in migrant regions, the introduction of special grants for training in universities and colleges for rural youth of regions with excess labor, "Argandykov said.
this is our common victory, the victory of the entire Kazakhstani people.	according to him , 20 years ago the leader of the nation established the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	0,86
akims and governors of world capitals raised such topics as ecology, transport and urban traffic, tourism development, cultural diversity and crisis prevention.	the mayors and governors of the world capitals gave presentations on topics such as the environment , transport and urban traffic , tourism development , cultural diversity and crisis prevention , the ministry of foreign affairs reported .	0,86
Representatives of the Constitutional Council noted the need to understand paragraphs 3-1 of article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan as follows.
with snipers underwent tactical, mountain, engineering training and fire training classes.
The Scientific Center for Obstetrics, Gynecology and Perinatology is the leading republican institution, whose medical and scientific staff deal with the most difficult conditions associated with assisting women in labor, as well as caring for newborns. the scientific center for obstetrics , gynecology and perinatology is the leading national institution , medical and scientific staff is engaged in the most severe cases , related to the birth , as well as to the nursing of very premature babies .
the new clinic is equipped with modern medical equipment.
fighters of special forces units of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and China will conduct joint training and training shooting with regular and special weapons.
in this report, entrepreneurship ensured the modernization of roads.
In addition, our small unit works in Ukraine.
photo: Aliyev citizen
Last year, the number of complaints from citizens about the activities of judges decreased by 253 or 5%.
United, we will be able to succeed in further strengthening the defense capabilities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev, Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces.
in addition, there is a stand with biographies of veterans of the Second World War and TJ.
In 2014, of the 557 organizations providing inpatient and inpatient care, 29% were representatives of the private sector.
They have not seen such a level of elections in other countries, especially they are surprised by the surprise of Kazakhstanis.
It is expected that more than 100 states, more than 10 international authoritative organizations and leading companies in the field of innovative technologies will take part in the exhibition.
now judges are civil servants with the highest salary in Kazakhstan.
The head of the Department of State Assets and Procurement of Caden Murat reported on the work done.
discussion of important aspects of the development of the system of additional education in the scientific and technical direction will help to determine the priorities of the future aimed at ensuring the rights of the child in self-realization and development, education of young people in technical literacy, satisfaction of their specialized preparation, various interests, development of the motivational potential of their extracurricular activities.
For us, Czech investments in the exchange of experience and the creation of joint ventures are of great importance.
The document was developed in order to improve the state regulation system in the areas of water supply and sanitation, heat supply, financial support for housing and communal services.
Amendments to the budget should weaken external effects, accelerate the development of the domestic economy and protect the social opportunities of citizens, the senator said.
I. Adyrbekov noted that a comprehensive plan to attract foreign and domestic direct investment has been adopted to stimulate the national economy of Kazakhstan.
the mosque occupies 2 thousand hectares, the mineral is 33 m, the dome is 31 meters.
President of the Nygymetov Center reported on the progress of the scholarship implementation and the development of the scholarship development plan for 2016-2020.
Kazakhtelecom also expressed his desire that Nursultan Nazarbayev run for the presidential election.
we are currently negotiating to attract a leader to provide ground services, "said Muratbaev.
The report notes that students of higher educational institutions located in the regional center, as part of the Green Country detachment, also work on the construction sites of the city.
After the inspection, the commission decided to include one of them in the Strong Formation LLP.
historical valuable exhibits join the ranks of the Azret Sultan Museum-Reserve.
According to him, the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to hold elections has changed the national agenda and the priority of geopolitics.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the importance of creating scientific and production complexes on the basis of higher educational institutions, research institutes and production enterprises.
in addition, children under 1 year old suffer from congenital malformations, respiratory and circulatory diseases.
we want the council created today to become a bridge for uniting business women in the region.	we would like the council will become the bridge that will unite business women of the region .	0,87
Kazakhmys. "
Thus, the state provided support to four entrepreneurs in the amount of 2,682,400 tenge.
today we know the opinion of the World Bank on the processes taking place in Kazakhstan.
this support will be continued, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Mayor of Almaty emphasized the huge contribution of women to the development of the economy, education and health, science and sports and other sectors of the metropolis.
The former President of Israel noted that the people appreciated the work and results of the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan.
According to the Academy, the seminar is attended by heads of ethnocultural and religious organizations of the regions, civil servants involved in issues of interethnic and interfaith relations, representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, republican and regional institutions of "public harmony."
according to the observer, an assessment will be made of the state in which and how it passed after the elections.
builders on behalf of all residents of the city thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for supporting an important social project, which has become the main communication transport for the majority of the population.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of creating an alternative economy in the country, following the example of leading European and Asian states, developing through technologies and manufacturing industries.
This year we meet with you in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War. an extremely important and enjoyable event - the 70th anniversary of the great patriotic war is coming .
we Ukrainians highly appreciate your personal contribution to the settlement of the conflict in the south-east of the country, financial and humanitarian assistance provided by Kazakhstan, "the author writes.
A monument in honor of 104 Soviet soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Liberation Army of the "Russian battalion," 36 of which are Kazakhs, was erected by the Government of Kazakhstan in 2010.
the meeting also included Megan McCabe Fitzgerald, Deputy Head of the Ecu/Diacs Mission, Deputy Chairman of the Central Election Commission of V.K. Okhlopekov and Acting Sarsembayev, Legal Affairs Specialist of the Ecu/Diacs Mission, Master of Castells Vicente, Electoral Specialist, lucian Raul Muul Muresan and Ecresan Electoral and EcElection Adviser and Ec/Di
buried in a mass grave.
our main task is to get a good education, be politically active and work for the benefit of the republic.
this is the expression of a citizen of his vote, the support of a candidate of his country.
annual products are delivered to the regions of the region and the capital.
Following the negotiations, an agreement on inter-parliamentary cooperation was signed.
War veterans and rear workers were invited to the opening of the exhibition.
Let the object of culture be filled with interesting, joyful moments, "the akim of the region said at the opening.
investments in fixed assets increased by 3.9%.
Also on the citywide subbotnik, members of public and youth organizations, representatives of peaks, students of universities and colleges intensified.
according to the plans of the architects, about 50 apartment buildings of the new microdistrict will be built.
Then the Eurasian Economic Union will become a factor in the rapprochement and dialogue of the global format, "said K. Dzhakupov.
Recall that in the spring campaign of 2015 (April-June), the ranks of the Kazakh army will be replenished by 15 thousand young people of draft age.
As part of the festival, representatives of the Ukrainian ethnocultural association Oksana performed the song "native country" accompanied by a button accordion, and the vocal performers of the Renaissance trio played the guitar and completed a bloodthirsty duet.
most of the graduates will go to work in settlements, other cities of the country, some will remain in Uralsk.
In addition, the head of state drew attention to the fact that a new system of teaching English is being introduced in Kazakhstan, starting from the first grade.
in the western regions of the country, voting will last up to 21-00 hours of Astana time.
Chairman of the National Bank reported on the results of last year and the main directions of macroeconomic policy for the coming period.
The mission familiarized itself with the organization of the commission and the training and selection of national observers.
Minister of Energy V. Shkolnik noted the importance of working on a single integration path from today for the development of integrated interaction between subjects of various sectors of the economy and various regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a.Mirkhametov thanked the high guest for assessing the economic opportunities of the southern region, noting that the investment climate of the country is becoming attractive for foreign investors.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, representatives of the two states discussed the preservation of cultural monuments and mass sports.
Employees of the full partnership "қazal and k" from the city of Kyzylorda noted that the crisis phenomena observed today in the world economy feel the value of caring for a person of labor in our country.
because one of the main goals of our activity is to increase the Kazakh content, to ensure maximum transparency of the public procurement system, "said the director of the sko nelly cuckoo.
A speech is also expected by the Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Alberta Rau, the General Director of Tengizshevroil LLP - Timothy Glen Miller, the Director of the Mining and Oil and Gas Service Union of Kazakhstan of the long-time Augambay, the Director of Kaznipimunaigas murat Kurbanbaev.
according to him, despite a decrease in prices for fuel and lubricants and electricity, a decrease in prices for Kazakhstani products is not observed.
The international competition of young pianists astana piano passion has been held for three years.
holders of the Golden Collegium sign Alzhanova raikhan bijanovna, carabalina alma, kasenova margangul seilkhanovna, pakhriddinova gulmira alauddinovna, urazynbetova aitkul abdullaevna.
for this purpose, a joint action plan will be drawn up, within the framework of which work will be carried out.
The main problem of the convention is ensuring the access of citizens with disabilities, "the minister said.
Today we provide the most comfortable services to the population, our employees provide services by communicating directly with people, "said Yerzhan Lobarov, director of the white-stone branch of Kazpost.
we again witnessed a victory in practice.
1434 teachers and 160 masters of industrial training were employed in organizations of technical and vocational education in the city of Astana.
According to the speaker, the 132nd Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, held these days in Hanoi, is an indicator of the serious role of Vietnam in international relations.
Until 2019, roads between major cities will be reduced by 3 times, opening the road to neighboring countries.
we want to diversify energy resources, that is, we must attract investment not only in the production of raw materials, but also in its deep processing, and should not ignore the production of products with a high share of technological content in value added, "said the school.
As of January 1, 2015, the list of voters increased by more than 200 thousand people.
in particular, the real results of shooting snipers indicate their qualifications and skills.
Kazakhstan and Germany had good opportunities to expand cooperation in various spheres.
the world is moving towards the expansion of renewable energy sources.
The purpose of the competition is to widely disseminate the ideas of highly efficient construction and attract talented young specialists to the construction sector.
Tokayev noted that "a religious forum is a union of efforts of religious leaders for interreligious dialogue, building peace, preventing religious conflicts, and promoting the development of new forms of international cooperation."
The quality and accessibility of medical care to the population is an important area of ​ ​ the committee for paying for state services of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the committee of medical services payment under the ministry of health and social development of kazakhstan focuses on the quality and accessibility of health care .
Last year, the plant produced 150 units of motor vehicles.
aa. Idrissov highly appreciated the initiative of Saudi Arabia to hold an economic forum of the League of Arab States, Central Asian countries and Azerbaijan, noting the importance of this measure to further strengthen trade and economic ties between the regions.
according to the secretary of the commission on legalization of property A. Baymashova dated April 13, 2015 for the commission 1642 (3194 objects), of which 775 applications for legalization of park houses, individual residential buildings, additions, 816 applications were considered and legalized in the commission, 3 applications were denied legalization, 48 applications are considered.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev, at the enlarged government meeting on February 11 of this year, the targeted transfers of the national fund for the implementation of new anti-crisis measures of the state program "Nұrly zhol" will be increased.
our goal is to mobilize military personnel for sports. our goal is to engage soldiers in sports .
I speak to young people, "said Pavel Yakovlevich.
introduction of a new method of pricing in construction will allow determining the estimated cost of construction depending on the actual market prices for materials, products, equipment and labor in accordance with current prices, as well as will ensure the prompt updating of the estimate and regulatory framework with new materials, equipment and technologies.
The main goal of the exhibition is the presentation and promotion of the life and creativity of a great personality, the main Kazakh poet, social activities and the heritage of the descendants of the Abai, students of the poet.
this unique products are interesting to Kazakh oil workers, as well as our colleagues from the CIS countries, "he continued.
since the capital is the capital of sovereign Kazakhstan, and this diet was created in Akmola region, the decision was made at a high level, and we were specially made a copy of it.
It is very pleasant for us to come to Kazakhstan, work as an observer, monitor the election process, take part in the elections, calculate how many Kazakhstanis voted, "said Karin Strens.
In particular, in Russia and South Korea, the model of Kazakh inter-ethnic harmony will be presented in the near future, "A. Sadvakasova said at a briefing.
we perceive the world as ethnic, linguistic, religious, cultural, they are formed in the same way in the future.
the fight against corruption is an important task of the entire Kazakh society.
As a result of the plenary meeting, the minutes of the xxx meeting of the conference of general directors (responsible representatives) of TDU were signed.
Save money in today's economic environment. first of all the deputy premier believes necessary to attract the young generation .
All the successes and achievements of independent Kazakhstan were largely achieved due to peace and harmony in our country. all success and achievements of modern kazakhstan became possible thanks to peace and harmony .
1700 small Almaty residents took part in the New Year's holiday, these are excellent students, children from low-income families and orphans.
The event was organized with the support of representatives of ethnocultural centers of kha, universities of Almaty city, consulates of Kazakhstan and Russia, akimats of Almaty and Medeu districts.
According to the akim, in order to achieve the goals, it is necessary to develop a comprehensive action plan.
Recall that in accordance with international obligations, the jeep on behalf of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan includes units of airborne assault, special forces and aviation, artillery and support.
Speaking about the Kazakh socio-economic sphere, he familiarized the Minister with the main directions of the head of state's message to the people "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" and spoke about the measures taken by the Kazakh government to counter the next economic crisis associated with the fall in oil prices, "the statement said.
As of January 1, 2015, 4687.7 million tenge (102.9%) was used, 8369 participants of the program were covered.
This week, veterans of the Great Patriotic War and home front workers in the center of health care for pensioners of the city of Semey were visited by military personnel of the regional command "east."
a vivid example of the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized businesses. the brightest example is the ombudsman of small and medium-sized businesses in the united states .
It is worth noting that Expo-2017 covers a wide range of issues, which arouses interest among representatives of states and international organizations, large companies.
the course will provide participants with the necessary theoretical and practical knowledge of the training programmes in their countries on protection against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear disasters.
by electoral means, our citizens, firstly, exercise their constitutional right, and secondly, directly participate in the government of the country.
As Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Italian Republic Stefano Ravagnan assured, the legal sphere is an important sector of relations between the two countries.
During the seminar-meeting, the issues of logistical support for the election campaign, effective interaction of election commissions, local executive bodies, civil society institutions and the media were discussed.
each of us came to the polls, understanding this responsibility.
From March 2 to 30, more than 250 entrepreneurs turned to the centers.
In addition, as the president of the Association of Business Women noted, the family never prevents success in business, activity, on the contrary, the family becomes a pillar.
seeds are issued on a contractual basis, without prior payment, peasants can fully pay in December after collecting products.
According to the participants of the seminar on the results of the Astana Economic Forum, the head of the regional research service of the Center for Public Relations and Information under the President of Armenia Manvel Gumashyan noted that over the past 10 years Kazakhstan has become a platform for discussing not only global economic issues, but also world security.
they monitor the surface and underwater situation of the Kazakhstan sector in the Caspian Sea, investigate the reliefs of the seabed in order to create topographic and nautical maps.
Therefore, terrorism should be considered the enemy of humanity as a whole, "the head of state said.
About 170 snipers from formations and units of airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and 6 representatives of the armed forces of the Kyrgyz Republic took part in the gathering.
According to him, in general, about thirty states and state structures living on Kazakh land formed the ethnic basis of the Kazakh people.
military personnel are constantly working to improve their professional level, "the report said.
The forum is expected to bring together well-known politicians, current and former heads of State and Government, heads of major financial development organizations and transnational companies.
As noted in the National Chamber, the mechanism for transferring colleges to trust management of enterprises should be clearly spelled out and indicated.
At the same time, the chairman of the majilis noted that business conditions are constantly improving in the country, especially on a legislative basis, "the report said.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted the unprecedented activity of Kazakhstanis who took part in the elections and supported the course of the current head of state.
on the other hand, 1.5 million people were starving due to Stalinist collectivization.
civil servants, akimats of all regions of the republic, entrepreneurs, organizations and production owned by various facilities took an active part in the action.
we are actively working in this direction and we propose to legislate the provision of retail chains with domestic goods by 50%, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
You perfectly understand the importance of sports in uniting the public. you understand the importance of sport to unite people .
all the wishes expressed on the great anniversary.
Speaking about strengthening trade and economic ties, the Chairman of the meeting noted that China is the largest foreign trade partner of Kazakhstan.
this means that new jobs will be created.
I would like to express my sincere gratitude and gratitude to the Belarusian people for the memory of the soldiers who died in the war, in search of missing persons, for the return of names, for giving their name to one of the streets of Volkovysk.
According to the committee, for 29 days from March 23, 2015, 3 medical trains at 41 stations served 21,393 people.
according to him, the main reason for the change in budget parameters is associated with a change in prices for a barrel of oil and a decrease in wool growth.
Recall that last fall the first stage of the reconstruction of the runway was completed and the Ural airport began to work.
This event brought together several generations of Kazakhstanis, active servicemen and their heroic relatives and made it possible to find out the names of new heroes in the war, as well as their unique historical destinies, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reports.
I am very grateful to the leadership for such respect. i am grateful to the leadership for the award .
Kazakhstan space visit "will share experience of using space technologies for agriculture management.
There are five newspapers, radio and television programmes in Kazakhstan in five different languages. kazakhstan publishes five papers in five languages of different ethnic groups .
Today, kindergarten accepts children over 1 year old, "the report said.
in addition, entrepreneurs will be informed about all tools of state support and improve skills.
Work is under way to create an enabling environment for entrepreneurship development.
he always worked for his homeland.
The parties paid special attention to the presidential elections held in Kazakhstan.
Thanks to the measures taken in 2014 (17 people), the number of employees prosecuted decreased by 45% compared to 2013 (31 people).
The video online service is a ready and reliable solution for the organization of additional software within one day and fast transmission of current video in real time without hardware costs.
this is a restriction on the import of goods (quotas), a ban on imports, licensing imports, "the chamber explained.
Including, improving the culture of the village, improvement is one of the main tasks, "said the head of the region.
The program "Nұrly zhol," proposed by the head of state, has become an effective measure to counter world processes, which over time are complicated by new risks, "said A. Varelzhanov.
At the same time, members of the armed forces of Kazakhstan showed special beauty to the parade.
Kazakhstan is committed to expanding trade and economic ties with the Saudi Arab kingdom.
That is why we provide comprehensive assistance to peasant farms in this direction, including the supply of agricultural equipment and seeds, and the allocation of subsidies.	we met with the leadership of the national enterprise  kazvodkhoz " and came to a common agreement that irrigation networks must be restored , " - amandyk batalov said .
We open joint ventures with Russian and Belarusian companies.
the state allocates significant funds to agriculture.
In 2014, the Ministry of Energy provides 2.5 billion tenge for gasification of 21 settlements (14 settlements in Kordai district, 13 settlements in Zhambyl district, transitional projects in disputed areas).
There are plans to establish joint medium-sized research groups that are working purposefully to conclude free trade agreements with Israel, Egypt and India. it was instructed to create a joint research group to determine the feasibility of an agreement on free trade zone with israel , egypt and india .
In addition, according to the results of 4 months of the current year, 1,664 people were employed by the employment center of Astana Mayor's Office.
Director of the National Museum of Kazakhstan congratulated Alexander Tarakov, Chairman of the Board of the Republican newspaper Kazakhstan Pravda, and the publication's staff on the 95th anniversary of the newspaper.
for example, one of the films "War is not like a woman" ("A warrior does not have a female face") tells about the glorious daughters of the Kazakh people - aliyah Moldagul, Manshuk mametov and Chioise dormants.
after training, he was sent to the Leningrad region, where until January 19, 1944 they fought with the enemy.
improving the efficiency of state regulation of air transportation to increase the attractiveness of air transit through Kazakhstan.
he announced the creation of a service center on the basis of the enterprise for the repair of gas turbine plants, maintenance and repair of automation and control systems based on licensed technologies of general electric.
According to the deputy minister, the terms of temporary stay of the current person and his family members are determined by the employer, the customer of work (services), the time of conclusion of an labor and civil law agreement.
The International Day for the Protection of Children reminds us that all adults need to be responsible and caring for children. international children 's day reminds to all of us , adults , the responsibility and care of all children .
baktybaev telibekulu,
ended the war in Chekhoslav.
and Bokova highly appreciated the support of the leadership of Kazakhstan in expanding the organization's potential, including in financing a number of programs, the active participation of our country in the activities of UNESCO.
the essence of this holiday is to help each other, especially children, "the head of state said.
According to the results of the first quarter, the military unit 31775 took 1st place, and the rank of the best commander of the unit was received by the commander of the 1st motorized rifle battalion, Junior Sergeant A. Zhakanov.
thank you, "said the war veteran.
work has begun on the reengineering of the fund's business projects and the transition to a strategic holding model for the adoption of the best international alternatives.
Russian partners shared with the bill "On Amnesty of Capital" measures aimed at improving the activities of the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation.
we are the only zone where a road map for working with marginal youth is being developed.
optimization does not affect the level of social stability.
During the visit to Prague, meetings were held with the President of the chr miloh zeman and the Deputy Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the chr.
Also, the "steppe eagle" peacekeeping exercises are held annually in Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan said in a statement.
According to the plan, important measures and thematic large-scale initiatives will be taken in the region that affect the socio-economic and political development of Kazakhstan, the Department of Internal Policy reports.
Priority area adb is private sector development, as well as regional cooperation and integration, including public-private partnerships.
in particular, an action plan for the implementation of the main directions of the development of the "one window" mechanism was approved so that there were no difficulties during the bidding and did not give weight to participants in foreign economic activity.
In total, 38 projects worth 303.3 billion tenge are being implemented in the region as part of the industrialization map, which will create 2.1 thousand jobs.
As Tashpenbetov's father noted, the 20th anniversary of the people of Kazakhstan gave Kazakhstan society many successes.
a field canteen, a medical center were organized, strict control of public safety was ensured and additional security posts were opened.
As the senator noted, today Kazakhstan is the center of global events.
a parade of troops is planned in Kazakhstan.
this day reflects our sovereignty and unity, "said Y. Timoshenko.
Prime Minister of Malaysia N. He noted the achievements and activity of our country in the international arena, highly appreciated the intention of Kazakhstan to become a non-permanent member of the UN.
classes are intended for holding various seminars, round tables, training sessions with faculty, doctoral students, undergraduates of higher educational institutions, officers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and other states, representatives of other law enforcement agencies and organizations.
members of public commissions are distributed in the regions of Kazakhstan.
in his opinion, this is the country's intervention in solving regional and global problems and increasing the country's authority as a responsible international partner.
19240 square meters of housing were commissioned in the district, which is 3.3 times more than in 2013. 19,240 sq meters were commissioned in the district , which is 3.3 times higher than the level of 2013 .
This was noted by all guests of our country.
all my achievements were made possible thanks to your constant support, "the author writes.
At the meeting in a narrow format, the heads of foreign affairs of the forum member states discussed topical issues of international policy and the development of the organization in the short term.
we began to export flour by 8.4%, confectionery - by 2.8%, increased the production of milk and dairy products, carbonated drinks, increased 3.3 times, cereals - 6 times.
Including on the basis of the special economic zone Taraz Khimpark, measures are being taken to establish a chemical cluster, produce caustic soda and chlorine, and modernize the Akbakai gold mining plant.
Thanks to this specificity, the organizers can attract active youth of Kazakhstan to their environments and convey the ideas of the head of state to create an assembly of people of Kazakhstan in a clear, understandable form.
exercises are held in places as close as possible to hostilities, "the report said.
secondly, they should protect the domestic market from risks and, third, ensure equal competition for everyone, "said N. Aldabergen.
A private partner may negotiate directly with the State and conclude a treaty. the private partner has a right to initiate negotiations with the state and conclude a contract .
I think that fate should not leave us indifferent, even if we go far from our native country, "says Daniyar Skandumen, a cadet of the 5th year of the military university of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation.
According to the city's health department, master classes will be held from January 12 to 16 on the topic: "Simulation course on intensive care, nursing nurses of the ambulance and reception department."
we must create a professional apparatus for civil servants. they will be based on a single frame of skills of civil servants .
carpet production using Belgian technology in South Asia
In the ranks of civilian volunteers there are descendants of our veterans of the Great Patriotic War who were Sheyites, returned to their homeland, Semipalatinsk - Nevada, the Chernobyl disaster, the Afghan war, mother heroes, youth.
participated in the Baltic, Belarusian, Ukrainian operations.
Within the framework of the kha activity plan, 150 events of ethnocultural associations, more than 170 events of the scientific and expert council are planned.
that would be the case, but the law could not replace any legislation.
In connection with the international date, a special commemorative meeting of the General Assembly was held at the headquarters of the United Nations, during which the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan in his speech noted that Kazakhstan fully supports the principles of preventing racial, ethnic, national and other discrimination in any form.
He noted that the main body uniting the tax and customs services and economic investigation services was the Department of State Revenue.
the company manufactures stadium ceilings and insulation materials and necessary things in the construction industry.
It is also planned to enter the open sea with the crew of the Saryarka rocket and artillery ship, the Ministry of Defense said.
Within the framework of the action, raids are carried out with the participation of employees of the Department of Internal Affairs, representatives of education, health, public organizations, parents and the media in order to identify street and street children.
According to the case, in Italy last November, 22 million 310 thousand people were registered, which is 0.2% less than in October.
recently launched railway lines "zhezkazgan-beineu" and "beam-shubarkol."
The Law on the UKP provides for a number of services of the NPP in the field of development and support of entrepreneurship, development of foreign economic activity, attracting investment.
polling stations will be closed in Washington, nyu-yorka and Ottawa on April 27 at 6 a.m. capital time, "the Secretary of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan added.
and support for enterprises and their projects is provided according to standards and their individual views.
I think this is a good indicator in the current situation.
It is worth noting that in the region there are 285 fattening grounds for 49 heads.
we want to say that very good conditions have been created here for the election of a president.
our concern is not connected with the 70th anniversary of the upcoming great victory. we support our veterans on a regular basis .
Thanks to this, the forum gained authority and became an important factor in Asian construction in ensuring security, "the Senate press service said.
acceptance of applications and financing of agricultural measures at the expense of budget loan funds are carried out by regional structures of subsidiaries of the national holding - food contract corporation and agricultural credit corporation and partners of the program - second-tier banks.
To date, the first phase of construction has been completed and the construction of 9 German wind generators with a capacity of 9 mw has been completed.
the State depends on imports of food, machinery and vehicles, fuel and chemical products.
I do not support the approach to Islam.
According to the agency, meetings to clarify the message were held in all districts of Akmola region.
Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Dzhumatay Aliyev noted that the ways of peace, harmony and tolerance outlined by President Nursultan Nazarbayev are unique for our success.
the electronic queue system will not only restore order in the divisions, but will also send relevant information to the situation center located in the central office of the capital, "he said.
The quality of domestic goods will be parobied and improved.
by type of troops, genera, regional commands, command of military units and institutions.
The Committee of International Relations, Defense and Security is considering an intergovernmental agreement of the Kazakh and Chinese People's Republic on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and response, an agreement between the governments of Kazakhstan and Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, disaster prevention and elimination.
According to the party Nұr Otan, public access to the Internet was opened at the postal department of the village.
As noted by K. pockets.
the territory of the East Kazakhstan region has been inhabited since ancient times.	as the part of the  concept of tourism development until 2020 " east kazakhstan is regarded as the center of eco-tourism , " the message reads .
but I said that I wanted to be a scout there, but I was ordered to wait a little time, "said Maria Ivanovna.
he informed his interlocutors about the preparations and protocol arrangements for this international forum.
The head of state noted that the center of cardiac surgery, created by the Seyithan Zhoshybayev, awarded the Order of "barys" of the II degree, saved the lives of many people.
The 5th Element team, which won first place in the competition, will defend Akmol's honor at the republican stage of the Young Guard contest.
summing up the results of the citywide subbotnik, akim said: "We support a clean city!" recalled that the environmental month continues, within the framework of which work is planned that should be done.
there are still children's places on the top floor. there will be rooms for the children on the top floor .
relevant amendments to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on notaries.
the traditional relay race "road map of peace and harmony" starts in a green region.
in total, it is planned to sell 115.6 tons of products worth 42.8 million tenge on the same day.
humanity and the world should be eternal, "said A. Idigov.
There, oil demand in these countries will grow and exports to them will increase, "said the president of the joint-stock company.
During the visit, Kazakh parliamentarians and representatives of state institutions of Kazakhstan held bilateral meetings with the parliamentary state secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture of Germany Robert Klos and the chairman of the agricultural committee of the Bundestag gita coneman.
the Kuwaiti emir wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health and well-being, and the Kazakh people - well-being.
The Commissioner of EXPO-2017 said that the work to mobilize international participants is carried out at all levels and directions, made a report on his visits to European and Asian countries, on the legal justification of the exhibition and an information and image campaign to promote the theme of the exhibition at major international venues.
at the end of the cycle, all students received certificates, the end continued with a round table.
P. Poroshenko also noted the importance of intensifying relations in the food industry, aircraft industry, military-technical and cultural-humanitarian spheres.
As the head of the main supervisory authority of Kazakhstan noted, for our country this is another and important step towards rapprochement with the European community.
Currently, there are higher education institutions operating under this program.
According to the NPP, the parties are interested in cooperation in order to develop trade, economic and large-scale ties between entrepreneurs of the two countries.
in total, the National Bank developed 207,923 medals.
The Governor noted that the total amount of raised funds within the II Almaty Investment Forum in October 2014 amounted to 560 million dollars (101 billion tenge).
according to most observers, the elections were held fairly, openly and fairly in accordance with international standards and norms and principles provided for by the Kazakh name.
such centers, which are the backbone of business, can be called a great achievement.	in addition  business school " will operate in each center in order to provide the population with the basics of business .
The 11th grader of the village of Shardara of the South Kazakhstan region received a certificate in the nomination "Best Rural Student."
According to the report of January 19, 2015 on code 206110 "fee for legalization of property," the budget actually received 350.5 million tenge.
European experts received with interest information on the strategy for sustainable global energy and environmental development of the 21st century and the green bridge partnership program implemented at the proposal of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
About 10 thousand diagnostic studies were carried out, 169 small outpatient operations were carried out.
this is the life cycle, research and experimental and constructive work, service, leasing contracts, "said Kusainov.
all necessary documents, normative legal acts, methodologies and explanations were prepared in a timely manner.
During the event, issues of interaction with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Samruk-kazyna" in the areas of people, processes and technologies were considered.
also such devices as fiber-optic cable, furnace, incendiary device of the furnace, utility electric lighting.
I call on young people to love their homeland. the students of the medical university have visited the veteran .
Of course, there are no problems at all. we cannot say that there are no problems .
the next project is called "Successful Initiative."
Further, according to the plan, 100% gasification of district centers is planned, work in this direction is planned to be completed by 2016.
the number of unemployed in the region amounted to 16.4 thousand people.
Following the discussion, a resolution was adopted aimed at improving the work on appeals of individuals and legal entities.
Kassymov kalmukhanbet nurmukhanbetovich;
According to the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan, the signing of the agreement is a landmark event in expanding Kazakh-Hungarian legal cooperation, uniting efforts in the fight against crime, as well as preparing appropriate measures to prevent threats in the context of globalization.
Last November, the number of unemployed youth in Italy increased by 0.6%.
The business directory includes congratulations from a number of Canadian government bodies and business associations, cited as an example of Canadian companies that successfully operate in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting with the Kazakh pavilion, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Thailand marat esenbaev met with the Minister of Tourism and Sports of Thailand Kobkarn Suriat Vakhtanavrangkul.
The purpose of the seminar: providing information about vacancies to employees of educational organizations, concluding a collective agreement, working with the republican portal "Work."
A ceremony was held in Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan) to present the keys to the capital of Islamic culture.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation, including the fight against transnational organized crime, the suppression of the laundering of proceeds of crime, as well as the exchange of operational information and experience.
today we plan to open an integrated model - the institution of family support. today 's we plan to introduce an integrated model , when the institution of the family support will be established .
we are looking for values that adhere to our society today.
Both European and Latin American dances took part in the competition.
medals, diplomas and memorable gifts were awarded to the winners, "the statement said.
The whole process at the plant is built on a system, students here really liked it, "said a teacher at Bolashak College to Nursultan Tuleshov.
One of the priorities of the program is to improve the condition of children in the South Kazakhstan and East Kazakhstan regions, including the Semipalatinsk test site and the island zone.
In addition, he thanked veterans for their courage and called for the preservation of historical knowledge about the victorious soldiers.
In general, assistance in the amount of more than 2 billion tenge was provided, "he said.
By the way, the state, which is the source of income in the agreement, can tax devidents, interest and royalties with a very low interest rate.
The head of state noted that the work of public associations is of particular importance for social stability, which corresponds to the priority areas of the state.
Governor of North Kazakhstan region Yerik Sultanov took part in the event.
As part of the regional development program, heat supply systems of three small cities of the region were reconstructed - forward, shalkar, kandyagash, including alkar, central boiler houses of shalkar cities, 15.4 km of heating networks in the city of Shalkar were replaced.
According to the results of the grand prix contest of the republican complex Olympiad, "sardar" was received by the republican school "Zhas Ulan" (Nurtas Kadyrov).
the park provides residents and guests of the capital, students with an interesting educational experience based on scientific and cultural phenomena, as well as increases the interest of society in science, the study of new things, sports and healthy lifestyle.
destroyed civil aviation.
a total of 595 people were evacuated from 8 settlements of the Tselinograd district, 3 people were saved.
according to the approved list, entrepreneurs will work without additional establishment of legal entities, having a license and permission and the right to mutual recognition of qualifications.
Despite the difficulties in the global economy, the company plans not only to maintain achievements this year, but also to increase the volume of production, the department of internal policy of the region said.
During the talks, priority aspects of bilateral relations and measures to resolve the situation in eastern Ukraine were discussed.
in addition to topography and radio, as well as in the preparation of a military briefing.
Today we are talking about this, and the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is a big event tourism, "he said.
House of Culture named after A.Tokmagambetova founded in 1959.
all companies implement key performance indicators, as well as develop a corporate code of management of national companies.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at the first stage of the internship, the actions of rescuers were worked out on the basis of the republican operational rescue squad: alerting and cleaning personnel, undergoing a medical examination, inspection of dogs with a smell, inspection of rescue equipment, delivery to the international airport of Almaty.
here for 3 months, prices increased by 10%. here , prices have risen by 10 % in the primary market for three months .
in this regard, the white subsidiaries of Kazagro Holding were forced to use personal or raised funds in order to timely fulfill obligations to the republican budget.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan so-called. Pursuant to the protocol order of Saparbayev, given at the meeting of the republican tripartite commission on regulation of social partnership and social and labor relations of January 21, 2015, work is underway to sign memoranda between the Governor's office, employers and trade unions on issues of ensuring the production process, labor rights and stabilizing the employment of an employee in the region.
A lot of work is carried out as part of the modernization of the great silk road.
today we offer interim results of the second wave of privatization. today we present the results of the second wave of privatization .
it was emphasized that Kazakhstan is the first country from the countries of the former USSR to officially submit archival documents of Spain.
Also at the meeting, projects were raised for the design of bridges and ring roads, field service and heating points, "the report said.
tools provided in the first direction are distinguished by such opportunities as payment for the preparation and examination of a comprehensive investment project plan, long-term leasing financing, and the provision of innovative grants.
In addition, local executive bodies began to present anniversary medals to veterans.
March is a holiday of spring renewal, harmony and mercy, unity of peoples on earth. nauryz is the holiday of spring renewal , harmony , happiness and unity of all people on earth .
In the regions, forces and means of emergency response units were created: 23,972 people, 7,361 pieces of equipment, 982 swimming vehicles, 16 helicopters were involved.
the second agreement is intended to create a co-financing fund. the second agreement will establish a joint fund for financing .
Let all our citizens support the Head of State on the way to prosperity of our country, and the state will come first in the world. "
sadykov anuarbekovich,
the government should create a fund for taking operational measures, "said N. Nazarbayev.
urumkhanov murata jalelula;
According to the conclusion of the Committee on Social and Cultural Development, the main goal of the bill is to improve legislation to form an effective model of state youth policy.
Recall, on February 17 of this year, at an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, Minister T.Duissenova said that Kazakh specialists are making efforts to improve the quality of services in the field of health and social and labor.
Norwegian scientists arrived in Kazakhstan and began archaeological research in the Kazakh part of Altai.	also , he noted the readiness of kazakhstan to cooperate in the field of world cultural heritage .	0,88
Large-scale goals are being set in the country to improve the quality of education, new innovations are being introduced in the territory of education, and for all interested people the international exhibition will be a landmark event and will allow you to familiarize yourself with the latest achievements in creating educational equipment for all levels of education, "said Aslan Sarinzhipov.
today we got the status of ad n.nazarbayev. competition for the best project of the Kazakh model of inter-ethnic tolerance and social harmony, "said a. Bashmakov.
it is worth noting that the military parade takes place live on five sites of the capital.
1,200 thousand soldiers were sent to the front, half of whom did not return from the front.
According to the initiators, such exhibitions are always of great interest.
all planned measures to eliminate the consequences of emergencies have been fully implemented, the report said.
Today, our university hosts a scientific and practical conference, the agenda of which, like the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and its role in uniting the Kazakhstani people. "
we set ourselves the task of providing the goods.
senators with. Engsegenov, E. sagyndykov, L.Kiins and K.Takhanov.
we are considering that there should be observers at each polling station, our goal is to ensure the most transparent conduct of elections, "said Vladimir Telnov, a member of the republican public election observation commission.
According to the regional agricultural departments, this year the sown area will be 21.5 million hectares, which is 0.1 million hectares more than last year.	according to the department , this year the acreage will be carried out on the area of 21.5 million hectares , which is 0.1 million hectares more than last year .	0,88
only then will the impetus of medical activity be given, the achievements of science will be launched, personnel issues will be optimized, "said B. Saparbayev.
The head of state noted that thanks to the measures taken, due respect for national interests is ensured.
there was also an exchange of views on the current state of integration processes within the CIS and eurozone.
all observers and experts noted voter activity throughout the day. all observers and experts noticed the very high voter turnout .
in particular, a pilot rating system was tested in several military units.
in addition, it is planned to build local airports in Akmola, East Kazakhstan region. moreover , it is expected to construct local airports , in akmola and east kazakhstan regions .
Kosan dauren;
Today, the medical institutions of the city and their equipment are the best in Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 5047 citizens who applied, 3067 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 1246 people received applications for changing their details, 734 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
Cabibollah Jacupes and George Crawl noted the great potential for strengthening Kazakh-American relations in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, technologies and innovations, as well as inter-parliamentary cooperation.
Kazakh way - 2050: state and prospects of development of Kazakh-German cooperation, organized by the government of the federal state of Baden-Württemberg and chambers of commerce and industry of karlsruhe and ulm cities on the basis of the initiative of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Germany.
According to the draft resolution, the number of ballots for the extraordinary elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, taking into account 1% of the total number of voters included in the voter lists, 9 million 451 thousand 57 pieces.	it will come to 9 million 451 thousand 57 pieces including 1 % reserve of the total number of the voters , included in electoral registers .	0,88
these topics were continued during the ambassador's meetings with the president of the Bavarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Frank Dollendorf, and the head of messe münchen, klaus dietrich.
in general, the kiosha is focusing on industries with high occupational risks, such as the oil and gas industry, coal, mining, construction and the agro-industrial complex.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, much attention was paid to the development of entrepreneurship in Almaty, especially the support of small and medium-sized businesses. in accordance with the request of the president , almaty pays great attention to the development of entrepreneurship , in particular small and medium-sized businesses , as a third of the country 's smes are concentrated in our city .
a powerful technical cluster is developing on the basis of this college.
It is worth noting that during the years of World War II, 170 thousand people left the front from eastern Kazakhstan, of which 96 thousand did not return.
Former Federal President of Germany h.k. expressed confidence that Kazakhstan, under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, despite the current challenges, will continue the process of economic reforms and democratic modernization with great energy and new efforts.
The bill introduces small forms of economics at low project capacity, providing for simplified competitions, "said M. Susainov.
It is worth noting that seed sowing in the greenhouse by the Cossack was carried out in January of this year.
at the same time, special attention was paid to the issue of the development by companies of the machine-building industry of production of new products.
observers noted that representatives of the commission are provided with appropriate methods, information materials and equipment, "the report said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the personnel of the Kazakh, Russian, Azerbaijani and Turkmen infantry units, as well as the crews of surface ships will take part in the competitions.
they will be for sale by the end of the year.
In his speech, the ambassador emphasized the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "a bright path - a path to the future," noting the priority areas of the country's development aimed at effectively overcoming new challenges related to the difficult geopolitical situation and the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis.
Currently, an operating table for the scientific center of obstetrics, gynecology and perinatology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a breathing apparatus for newborns and an ambulance medical transport have been acquired, the Noble Heritage Charitable Foundation reports.
the leader of the Zoroastrianism group from India, H. Dhalla, noted the high authority of Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as his special contribution to ensuring nuclear safety in the world.
today there are all the necessary tools for the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state in the message. today there are all necessary tools to implement the set the tasks in the address of the president .
This project will provide the population and production enterprises of the city with electric and thermal energy and provide the regional center with hot water throughout the year.
The Secretary of State noted that more than 1 million 200 thousand Kazakhstanis took part on the fronts of the war.
Round tables, debates and training seminars on the protection and promotion of adolescent health and the protection of reproductive rights will also be held in the regions of the republic.
Within the framework of the event, military personnel and leading experts of eleven countries will have the opportunity to establish specific plans, as well as inspection actions for the exchange of experience, establishing new contacts, and further high-quality cooperation in building confidence and security.
In addition, according to the Foreign Ministry, the parties reached agreements on the effective use of water and energy resources, in particular, water management, transboundary rivers, measures to prevent and restore floods, as well as the exchange of experience in the development of renewable energy sources.
sociology, when artists danced, amazed not only their technical level, but also acting, national specifics.
The videoconference was attended by employees of the territorial bodies of justice, the republican state enterprise "National Institute of Intellectual Property," the republican state enterprise "National Institute of Intellectual Property," patent attorneys of the Republic of Kazakhstan, rights holders of the business structure.
As previously reported, business schools for start-up entrepreneurs will be opened under the NPP.
in general, through access to the center or site, you can get detailed information about guaranteed medical care, the time of admission of the district doctor and the work schedule.
industrialization is not just an instrument of the economy, but the basis for the formation of the middle class, "the head of state emphasized.
The number of veteran witnesses of those very heroic years is also becoming more rare, "the press service of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region reported.
During the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that Kazakhstan actively supports international treaties aimed at stabilization in Afghanistan, and annually provides humanitarian assistance to this country.
According to the Vice Minister, in this way the parties can exchange information, share experience and jointly plan events.
During the visit to Ankara, under the chairmanship of the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Anarbek Karashev and the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey Ali Naji Koru, consultations on personnel issues were held between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Turkey, at which a wide range of personnel policy implementation in the two countries was discussed.
further in Baku, Chisinau, Yerevan, Bishkek, Dushanbe, Moscow solemnly lit a torch.
at this time, young people study the basics of entrepreneurship and absorb the psychology of entrepreneurs.
It is noted that the uniqueness of the project lies in the consolidation of the history of all Kazakhstanis heroes in one cycle.
Emphasis is placed on innovation in production. it is necessary to pay special attention to innovations in production .
And his relatives are very grateful for the constant concern of the president, "the report said.
To this end, the best specialists from military units were sent to the capital.
tashimbayeva timura gazizbekula,
Shpekbaevsky channel;
the employment of Kazakhstanis will be carried out thanks to a number of sectoral state programs, "said Duissenova.
these measures are carried out in order to improve the practical skills of crews and improve their skill. these activities are carried out on strengthening the skills of crews and improve their skills .
promoting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, Sheikh Tamim and Hamad al-Thani, highly appreciating the results of Kazakhstan's activities within the UN and in the international arena, assured that they would definitely support the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the upcoming voting events.
if one of the states in the agreement in accordance with the provisions of this document receives income subject to the tax of another state, then the first mentioned state allows deduction from the income tax of the resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in another state, the conclusion explains.
However, in this area there are a number of problems with market access and competitiveness, "said Shaboyan.
The Secretary General of the Shu Dmitry Mesentsev heads the mission of Shu observers in the presidential election in Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Russian rescuers and other members of the delegation on the first day of arrival discussed and adopted regulations for the exchange of hydrological, hydrometeorological, hydrochemical and water management information along the Irtysh River.	on the first day of the visit russian rescuers discussed and adopted the regulation of exchange of hydrological , hydrometeorological , hydrochemical and water information in the basin of the irtysh river .	0,88
thus, Kazakh servicemen will have the opportunity to further study the methods of training specialists of technical schools, instructors and implement them in our country.	so , kazakh soldiers will be able to study in detail the methods of training of technical schools , instructors , and further implement them in our country ,  the message reads .
According to information, in January-March the property market will be activated. according to justice in january-march real estate market comes to life .
two hours passed, students helped the household and told interesting stories of student life.
Since 2011, 42 facilities have been repaired, 11 facilities are planned to be repaired this year.
the actions we take are supported by the international community.
Also, 8,310 objects worth 47.8 billion tenge were legalized.
and informed European colleagues about the planned presidential elections in the country.
Kazakhstan is in the process of global growth, when factories stop in the world, jobs are freed, "N. Nazarbayev said.
In general, the law includes the concept of career planning, with international experience they have ready-made developments, "he said.
we are Kazakhstanis, this concept reveals everything, there should be no differences between ethnos, because we are Kazakhstanis. we are kazakhstani people and there shouldn 't be any differences between the nationalities .
mobilize all construction complexes here. the building complex should be concentrated here .
I have monitored elections in more than 30 states. i was an observer in 30 elections .
I think that your elections are much more transparent than those held in a country with a developed democracy, "said an international observer.
it's my dream.
Support mechanisms for small and medium-sized businesses include second-tier banks engaged in business lending.
When forming the Munailinsky district, kindergartens provided preschool education by 1%, today it is 57%, children 3-6 years old raise 25 kindergartens. last tear munaily district 's provision of childcare facilities was only 1 % , now 57 % of children aged 3 to 6 years are brought up in 25 new kindergartens .
In this regard, the national budget for 2015-2017 provides for cash in full to compensate for rent to military personnel under a contract of this category.
During the meeting, the parties noted the high level of strategic partnership and mutual understanding in all areas of bilateral cooperation.
funds are directed to technical and additional expansion.
the document provides for the possibility for citizens to submit applications and receive services in state and local bodies or centers for the payment of pensions for 16 out of 36 public services in the socio-labor sector, as well as in public service centers (zon), through the portal "e-government," health expertise, "the conclusion of the committee on social and cultural development says.
deputy commander of the unit for educational and ideological work, Major Gabit Rakulov spoke about the importance of the flight profession and the protection of the fatherland, as well as about the achievements during the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, we have carried out optimization totaling 3.3 billion tenge, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
During 2015, our holding will put into operation 487, that is, 490 thousand square meters of housing, this is 9 thousand apartments, that is, 30 thousand citizens of the country, "he said.
preliminary three stages, in which they took part from schools, districts and regions, and then became the fourth final stage of the Olympiad. this is the fourth final stage of the olympiad , which was preceded by three other stages : school , district and region .
According to him, the main feature of the report is a comprehensive analysis of all stages of the election campaign in Kazakhstan, including the nomination of candidates, the course of the election campaign, the date of voting and summing up the election results.
an increase in the average score compared to 2013-2014 was 5.64 points, which was 78.04.
at the same time, he stressed the importance of the further implementation of the samruk-kazyna transformation program, which is the main structure for strengthening the competitiveness of the Kazakh economy.
The Minister also announced measures to strengthen targeted social assistance within the framework of the project "Rise."
ablazim mahsudhan nugmanula,
therefore, such events play a very important role for future defenders of the Fatherland, future officers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan - pupils of military schools.
All election commissions of the country are ready to vote and count votes, "said B. Meldeshov.
In addition, as part of the conference, the winners of the competition among small and medium-sized businesses introducing "green" technologies into production were awarded.
It should be noted that the creation of regional creative clusters will meet the requirements for the development of priority areas of art and give priority to the regional features of local cultural communities in the concept of cultural policy of Kazakhstan.
According to the legalization of property located outside Kazakhstan, as of January 19, 2015, the tax authorities for housing facilities received 2 applications in the amount of 108.7 million tenge, 2 objects in the amount of 108.7 million tenge were legalized.
taking into account the measures taken to reduce the current and capital costs of the fund and subsidiaries, the board of directors approved amendments to the samruk-kazyn development plan.
a.Mamytbekov reported on the current activities of the Ministry, the preparation for spring field work, as well as plans for the forthcoming period.
now they are ready to start a joint training in one column.
In turn, the ambassador praised the achievements of our state, noting that for Beijing Kazakhstan is one of the most important partners in central Asia, and expressed his readiness to further develop all ties.
We hope that this scientific collection will be saturated, deep, saturated and saturated for the younger generation, "said the director of the national museum Darkhan Mynbai at the conference.
We will complete the "Nұrly zhol" program for road transport communications in the next three years.
In January-November 2014, the country's population increased by 236.4 thousand people and increased by 1.38%.
together we will overcome any challenges of our time, "the authors write.
for example, at present, entrepreneurs do not need to obtain the opinion of the state fire service bodies in order to obtain licenses for the production of alcohol, its promotion and individual sale, pharmaceutical and medical activities, educational activities, transportation of passengers, organization of gambling, etc.
Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption Alik Shpekbayev, Head of the Department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in Astana Dulat Azbergenov, Director of the Population Service Center in Astana Ruslan Aktayev
- network of differential stations (60 ds) installed in all areas of RC;
Delphic games are the only competition in the world that unites all types of art.
According to the head of the scientific and expert group kha, an unprecedented institution in the world has proved its viability and need for a civil society in the world.
novice entrepreneurs do not know many issues, so they need the support and advice of professionals, "said A. Ibraeva.
If this year 4 tank crews of the PRC armed forces received special training on the territory of Kazakhstan, then in June Kazakhstani troops will be trained on Chinese territory.
kenzhebekov akdarbek kokezhanovich,
Kurmanali to stationary tungusbayul,
The best sports teams of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine intend to take part in the festival.
A. Peruashev noted that due to the current circumstances in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to adhere to a policy that pays special attention to national interests.
According to statistics, 87.3% of citizens living in Kazakhstan believe that we are obliged to speak the state language.
The head of state noted the growing interest of the international community in this economic association.
According to the ministry, in the nomination "potential innovations," the winner was the Kazakhstan company "National Scientific Medical Center" for the introduction of the technology of ultrasound treatment of high intensity (highintension focused ultrasound).
it is planned to increase the production capacity of limestone to 99 thousand tons per year, thereby creating another 157 jobs.
If we create a regional platform at the capital, then young people will work and experiment there, "he said.
issues of employment of the population of the region.
under the maritime project, the implementation of the future expansion is planned, within the framework of which the navigator intends to increase oil production by 1.4 times.
if a pension is accrued at the expense of a graduate of an educational institution, then this means that it is occupied, "said the country's head teacher.
Finance Minister B. Sultanov made a report on this issue.	finance minister b.sultanov reported on this issue .	0,88
graduates of military educational institutions annually join the ranks of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.	military high school graduates join the ranks of the armed forces of kazakhstan .	0,88
Young people also support social harmony. "
this system has accumulated some experience with us, and now it needs to be fully automated, "the sultanov said.
The building of a two-story kindergarten was built no later than 1 year.
Voting was carried out through the website, the voting results were announced in March 2015.
On April 15, 2015, they participated in a similar seminar in Almaty.
the bill is aimed at simplifying public procurement, reducing the risk of corruption, law enforcement and legal interests of potential suppliers, as well as increasing the responsibility of members of public procurement.
The meeting discussed the results of the ministries' work in the field of fulfilling strategic goals and objectives, managing personnel and budget funds, providing public services, combating corruption and legal support, the report said.
they also expressed readiness to invest not only in Kazakhstan raw materials, but also in new promising areas of the country's economy.
For us, you will be a vivid example of perfect service to the people, your native country.
but the debts of the peasants do not decrease.
According to him, the visit of Mr. Mohammad javad zarif rouhani to Kazakhstan created the necessary conditions for cooperation between the two countries.
we work according to the plan of the central election commission, approved by the chairman of the central election commission, and open a press center in accordance with the schedule, "said V. Zheksembekova.
In addition, on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, a plan of special events was approved to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
The heads of state discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and the upcoming meeting in Moscow dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
Given the natural, climatic possibilities, agricultural opportunities are an enabling area for investment. given the great natural , climatic opportunities for agriculture - it is a very attractive sector for investment .
For this, special groups will be created, which will be led by veterans - social workers and chairman of the Council of Veterans.
the veteran in turn thanked the akim, "the statement said.
they also wished the Kazakh people further development and prosperity.
The best talented performers of the region performed in the concert program of Kazakhstan, one of whom sang and the other danced, and then had fun.
It is not surprising that the photos of veterans were black and white or multi-colored, taken since 1930, "the report said.
During the period from 2005 to 2014, 111 thousand people were employed thanks to credit instruments allocated by the fund, "said E. Nsherbayev.
successfully implemented projects, growing number.
after the excursion, students were invited to take part in the creative competition "Influence on turnout in the Central Communications Service."
Following the visit to medical institutions, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that the leadership of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan and the Governor's Office of the capital should pay special attention to problematic issues.
It is worth noting that this type of activity is used in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan among the countries of the Central Asian region.
this is joy and joy in the eyes of our veterans.
on these holidays of victory I wish peace to the Kazakh people. i wish all the people of kazakhstan peace .
Tokayev noted that the head of state highly appreciates the 4th Anshk Summit, which developed practical mechanisms for building confidence and cooperation in Asia, held in Shanghai.
during such exercises, military personnel have the opportunity to demonstrate their combat training, improve the skills of conducting and using military equipment, and master new types of adopted military equipment.
they are prepared for a compact and dynamic step in the field with the preservation in the combat composition of a single pace and rhythm, slender.
Work on the conclusion of memoranda continues with local akimats, employers and trade union bodies.
During the seminar, economists, political scientists, heads and specialists of the departments of the East Kazakhstan region made reports on regional development plans under the Nұrly zhol program on-line.
It is worth noting that the budget expenditures planned for 2015 year, including optimization measures, amount to 686.7 billion tenge and are provided in the amount of 7,244,5 billion tenge.
Among them are the Mining Gold refinery, a plant for the production of electronic optical devices, a plant for the production of energy-saving glazing, an electric locomotive building complex, a complex for the production of solar panels, etc.
- Share plans for the future on patriotic education of young people.
reform of the prison system, transition to separate detention in a cell: Norwegian Vice Minister of Justice Andreas Skullberg made a presentation on international practice, sharing his experience of Norwegian detention in separate cells and experience in employment in Norwegian correctional institutions.
The military parade in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War is the honor of our glorious fathers, ancestors, who gave us a peaceful life.
in the speech, acting sarsembayev gave a number of explanations on topical issues related to financial, logistical, organizational and information support of the election campaign.
The industries in which investments are invested are renewable energy projects in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including solar power plants, wind power plants, small audio and biogas devices.
German and Spanish installations are installed here, all technological processes are automated.	thus , following the reconstruction the poultry equipped with german and spanish devices that will automate all the processes .	0,88
Today, the National Defense University has established cooperation between Kazakhstan, far and near abroad (Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Turkey and others) in the field of military affairs and military science with more than 18 military and civilian universities.	kimep university has an outstanding reputation throughout kazakhstan and the region and active links to the business community , and a large number of partnerships with esteemed international universities in north america , europe and asia .	0,88
According to the results of the audit, all servicemen who successfully passed the tests were proposed to be included in the reserve for encouragement to senior positions, as well as sent to higher academic courses at the National University of Defense named after the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation, the ministry said.
applied method is qualified by foreign and Kazakhstani scientists, gives accurate data.
the elections were extraordinary, so the time density for preparing for them was known. this was early elections , which means that de facto there was little time to prepare .
Recall that the meeting of the statutory bodies of the parliament was held in Moscow on December 22-23, Russia transferred the chairmanship to the Republic of Tajikistan.
firstly, this allows us to use the understanding, secondly, all the capabilities of member countries in military installation.
Karaganda region is the leader of local content in the procurement of systemically forming enterprises, "Akhmetzhanov said.
fifteen officers were awarded the title "Best Company Commander in Various Specialties."
many letters came from South Kazakhstan region.
the production, organized by the ensemble of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, was led by Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan Rakhmetzhan Shamuratov and director, Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a scientific garden is not only a territory on which Nazarbayev University projects are implemented, but also large international projects effective for our country.
26 hectares of land were allocated for the project in the amount of 2.9 billion tenge.
Representatives of political, public and youth organizations, ethnocultural associations, political parties who spoke during the forum congratulated the public on their common victories.
a delegation of the relevant department of the Russian Federation will visit today. today , the delegation of the russian ministry of energy is here .
the first place went to the Bolatbek Orazbaev from the Almaty region.
This requires a great deal of public awareness.
In 2015, on behalf of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan celebrates the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
According to the CEC press center, the main speaker is the secretary of the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the so-called gendarmes.
we talked with voters, carefully reviewed what was happening at polling stations and in election offices. we talked to people , who have voted , about what was happening in these polling stations and electoral offices .
The enterprise closure procedure has been canceled. the procedure of liquidation of the enterprise is also simplified .
this is a joyful situation.
he noted that 3 languages ​ ​ were used in the film.
Therefore, in these difficult times, we urge all Kazakhstanis to rally around the head of state n.a.
industrialization is a major part of economic policy.
I am sure that our sailors will adequately pass difficult tests and once again confirm their professional skills. i believe that our sailors will cope with the difficult challenge of competition and again will prove their professionalism .
they go to the military units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where they learn to effectively apply the theoretical knowledge gained, acquire skills and experience.
As noted in the department, the main goal of the competition-festival is the development of the creativity of veterans, the education of patriotism of youth, respect for adults, the creation of conditions for the discovery of the creative abilities of citizens of pre-retirement age and the organization of cultural events in their spare time, the popularization of all types and genres of folk art.
in particular, a service center for the repair of gas turbines was created on the basis of the machine-building company of the West Kazakhstan region together with the general electric company.
According to the ministry, measures are continuing to provide psychological assistance to the population, material assistance, grain delivery, humanitarian and material assistance.
From 1979 to 1995 he worked at the civil protection headquarters.
the female heroine has always inspired people of art, "said the head of the scientific and creative laboratory of zhazir zhekebaeva.
automated information system: automation of the camera control process; implement uniform technical regulations of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the customs union, as well as create a single database of all market entities; Automate the control procurement process recording laboratory results; register and monitor consumer communications; Implement a single electronic archive of information; create an Internet platform for interaction with public organizations; Implementation of the analytical and analytical reporting system.
one of them - by the end of 2015, the subsoil code will be considered in parliament.
During the meeting, the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Major General of the Police Rashid Dzhakupov congratulated veterans of the Great Patriotic War, presented awards to employees of the central apparatus and Ioi territorial units for conscientious performance of official duties and in connection with the celebration of Defender of the Fatherland Day and Victory Day.
Two issues that are before us today. today we are faced with two problems .
now civil servants work a lot with foreign colleagues, foreign state bodies. in fact , the list of those skills , abilities , knowledge which are required for the candidate to become the civil servant .
on many issues of development of both world agriculture and Kazakhstan agriculture.
The Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. highly appreciated Nazarbayev's policy ensuring the interreligious peace and peaceful co-existence in the multinational country, having noted that today in the world in a wide range of the extremist and radical ideas Kazakhstan shows an example of unity and unity, tolerance.
1823 memoranda aimed at stabilizing employment issues in the republic, of which 184 - with large and 1963 - with medium-sized enterprises with a total number of employees of more than 220 thousand people. 1823 memoranda aimed at stabilizing the employment issues were signed in kazakhstan , 184 of them were signed with the large-scale enterprises and 1639- with the medium-sized enterprises with a total crew size of more than 220,000 workers .
author: kamila amirova
From that moment on, Kazakhstan became known as the state, Kazakhstan. "
international banks and the media are also interested in opening their offices here.
this charter is designed to form a system of respectful relations, which will take into account the views of all interested parties, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin also exchanged views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
For this reason, the main areas of reform have been identified - subjects and structure, the expert said.
promoting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, Sheikh Tamim and Hamad al-Thani, highly appreciating the results of Kazakhstan's activities within the UN and in the international arena, assured that they would definitely support the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the upcoming voting events.
ethnocultural centers of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and student youth of the city took part in it.
all measures are aimed at improving the living conditions of the population.
however, to realize his goal, he did not have enough equipment for classroom training.
It is worth noting that East Kazakhstan region was one of the first to support the action "Made in Kazakhstan" initiated by the Head of State.
Chairman of the territorial election commission of Taraz and chairman of Zhambyl district territorial election commission of Zh. Sariy reported on the work of the city and district election commissions in preparation for the elections.
According to the memorandum with the Ministry of Agriculture on the diversification of crop production, the volume of rice crops has decreased, and the volume of vegetables, cereals, food and oilseeds has increased significantly compared to last year.
we want credit partners to be a financial institution that has its place in the market, and if you give it a direction of development and meet international standards, then it will be formed as a very necessary client for all banks. we pursue aim that the credit partnerships will become full-fledged market 's player , and we are confident that if it will shape the development and pull it to the international standards , the cp will be very attractive to the banks .
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, as part of the patriotic action, it is planned to leave for a car accident in two directions in all areas of the region.
This year it is planned to repair and improve roads, restore footpaths and fences, if necessary - painting, whitewashing, tidying up sports facilities, cleaning parks and squares. this year it is scheduled to repair roads , sidewalks , fences , to install lighting , landscaping , the device sports facilities , to landscape parks and gardens , playgrounds device .
74 of them from the CIS observer mission, 1 - from the observer mission, 7 - from the observer mission - cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states, as well as four observers - the United States, three each - from the Spanish kingdom and the Republic of Moldova, from two - Malaysian, Polish and Italian republics, one each - The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the French Republic and the Kingdom of Belgium.
all this is due to the height of the spirit of the hero, dance institutions and our people.
he has two children, three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
The exact time for the introduction of the new format has not been established, as long as we believe this option is correct.	we make certain allowances on safety , responsibility of the graduates .	0,89
Recall that today in the capital of Kazakhstan there is a Kazakh-Saudi business forum, in which about 300 citizens from enterprises and organizations of two countries, state bodies and development institutions and business associations take part.	this forum is attended by about 300 people : representatives of enterprises and organizations , government agencies , development institutions and business associations of two countries , also the delegation of saudi arabia - heads of large enterprises of the construction industry , chemical industry , agriculture , and investment funds .	0,89
if we talk about the results of the conference held earlier, then they influenced the UN program obligations, "said M. Karymsakov.
this plan provides for the creation of 1.1 thousand jobs.
the draft agreement clearly sets out the terms and procedure for distributing the collected remuneration, which should be held at least 1 times a year, "the minister explained.
at the expanded meeting of the committee in the second reading, the bill "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Gambling" was considered.
recently they went to China, where they found materials related to the kenesara khan. they have recently traveled to china and found the unique materials concerning khan kenesary .
The council, which opened in Aktobe, was the third in the country, previously opened in the bay and scales.
In addition, a number of meetings of the head of state are planned within the framework of the forum.
I consider it very important that in your work you have identified economic reforms as the next priority. i think it is very important that you put economic reforms on the first place .
it is a common transport corridor, a common bridge and a constantly growing trade.
l.turlashov, b.beknazarov voiced their comments and proposals on this issue.
loss-making 89.64 kpc.
means of defense, personal belongings, awards and medals of the Red Army.
In his message, the head of state noted the construction of roads as a priority task for Kazakhstan, which corresponds to the concept of the formation of a transport hub. in the address " nurly zhol-path to future " the head of state defined the construction of roads as a priority for kazakhstan , which corresponds to the concept of a transport hub in the country .
thanks to the far-sighted policy of our leader, all the necessary conditions have been created in our country for the development of the cultural sphere.
According to the head of state, in recent years, embassies of Kazakhstan have been opened in a number of countries abroad.
We held negotiations with the competent state bodies, the amount of funds allocated will be 5.5 billion tenge, the minister said.
In March, the first show of the performance of the ancient Greek playwright Euripides "Trojan Ars" took place.
journalists received information about the main museum of the country and comprehensive answers to their questions.
The Minister of Tourism and Culture expressed readiness for the implementation of this initiative.
It was this segment that produced products worth 3.3 trillion tenge.
The main thing is that they are alive and grateful for the victory, "said a representative of the youth league darya burmakin.
In addition, last year "miss" took part in the exhibition of Kazakh goods and products held in Moscow.
In addition, Governor of Taraz N.Kalenderov congratulated veterans of the Great Patriotic War of the Belyayeva, sovereign of the sadykbek, Berdibayev musakhan, heretics and buzhiks of the Tolybayevich mukhans.
Further strengthening of cooperation within steam, ecu and other organizations.
Explaining the above-mentioned legislation, the Office of the Procurator-General of the Republic of Kazakhstan calls upon all natural and legal persons, as well as the media, to strictly observe the legality during the electoral process, including with regard to the prevention of illegal pre-election campaigning or public events.
In connection with the expiration of the terms of implementation of bilateral agreements, as well as in order to fulfill the agreement of the Eurasian Economic Council until January 1, 2016, the concept of forming a common market for oil and petroleum products was approved. is being developed and by January 1, 2018 it is envisaged to create a program on the general market for oil and petroleum products, the Parties must implement all the program activities by January 1, 2024. in connection with termination of the bilateral agreement , and in order to fulfill the conditions of the eurasian economic union , the sides should no later january 2024 address implementation of all activities of the program and by january 1 , 2025 have to conclude an agreement on the establishment of common markets of oil and petroleum products eaeu , " first vice minister of energy uzakbay karabalin informed .
also Nursultan Nazarbayev with his bright victory in the presidential election. People's Artist of Kazakhstan, Director of the Institute of Molecular Biology named after M.Aithodzhin, academician N.Aiyoshina, President of the Red Crescent Society E.argumbayev. Professor d.masimkhanovich of Astana city, folk choir collective of stepnogorsk city of Akmola region, labor veteran from Astana city z.k., family of bikeshevs from the village of mambet of Koksu district of Almaty region, honorary citizen of Pavlodar region a.sarkinshak. Director of Rysbayeva & K LLP, Taraz. Tattigulov, from Zhambyl region e.nabi, a resident of the village of Kosshy, Akmola region f. Gibadulin, Zhetysai, South Kazakhstan region a.zholbarys.
1430 people were prosecuted for smoking in public places, 1.5 thousand violators were prosecuted for drinking alcohol in public places.
in particular, the main directions of the five institutional reforms aimed at making major changes in the socio-political and socio-economic life of the country for the coming years were announced.
entry into any integration is always a test, an increase in competition. any entrance to integration is always a challenge , improvement of competition .
A.Mamin reported to the Head of State on the current activities of the company, measures to increase the efficiency of its subsidiaries, the implementation of major projects and plans for the coming period.
According to the regional Governor's Office, representatives of the delegation headed by Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov got acquainted with the production process.
the parties recognized the need to expand trade and investment cooperation taking into account the potential of the two states and noted the need to create all the necessary conditions for this, including the establishment of an appropriate contractual base.
Thanks to the work of Kazakhstanis, our republic has achieved great success in a historically short period of time, strengthened its independence, and became a well-known and authoritative country. thanks to the work of kazakhstani people , in a short period of time our country has achieved incredible success , strengthened the independence , having become a well-known and influential country .
The material base is equipped with modern equipment and Halkar standards, as well as comfortable service and household premises.
He said that large-scale work is underway in Kazakhstan to preserve historical and cultural monuments, their inclusion in the UNESCO World Heritage List.
The Kazakh delegation was headed by Minister for Economic Integration Zhanar Aitzhanova.
there are all the necessary offices for servicing patients, these are a dentist's office, registration, vaccination and treatment rooms.
An interdepartmental working group chaired by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B. Sagintayev has been created.
about half a million people work in this segment.
we need to make the foundation right and competent before creating a strategic structure, "he said.
Therefore, we are ready to develop a special anti-corruption plan and work together, "said Mr. Dosanov.
it will be a body under the president that will be inside this committee.
3482 students were allocated 84.4 million tenge for these purposes last year, "the report said.
The total amount of financing of these projects is 4 million tenge, - said Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov.	the financing of these projects amounts around four billion tenge , the head of the region yerik sultanov noted .	0,89
So, last year work to support the agricultural sector was strengthened, subsidies for this area increased to 16.7 billion tenge.	the support of the agricultural sector was strengthened last year , and accordingly the subsidies were increased twice - up to 16.7 billion tenge .	0,89
civil alliance of Kazakhstan. "
Currently, there are 9 circles there, covering more than 109 thousand children.
It is worth noting that today Nazarbayev University is implementing an intellectual and innovative cluster that unites the academic part of the educational institution, scientific centers and the system of commercialization of scientific results.
the area of ​ ​ spring sowing is 18.5 million hectares.
memorial plaques are installed in the houses where he lived and worked, "said S. Kulagin.
Yerzhan Kazykhanov spoke about the main directions of Kazakhstan's development and priorities of the country's economic policy, which are considered as one of the leading states of the Caspian region.
Head of the Secretariat of the Chairman of the Senate, Erbolat Seilekhanov and chief consultant Yuri Shchekalin were awarded the medal "For Valiant Work."
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Turkey thanked the Governor of Eskisehir Province for the warm attitude towards the Kazakh creative group.
As Kazakhstan presents itself, it will increase the competitiveness of the remote market, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, in the regional command "South," military personnel led by Major General Talgat Koybakov congratulated veterans of the Great Patriotic War living in the Zhambyl region.
these figures will be maintained for the coming year.
none of our graduates entered, "said the head of the 12th grade of the sadykov fari.
according to him, at this time control and monitoring units were created that will receive information that has been analyzed.
the fate of many of our compatriots is closely linked to the war in Afghanistan.
the initiative should take place taking into account the fact that it has been active for 2 years.
Special service centers for young entrepreneurs should be created for young people, it is not important that they work as a whole, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
As part of the teleconference, the terminal for storing oil and storing oil products of Aski-Mangistau LLP was opened.
5 institutional reforms:
this is an altar wedding, jewelry that goes out, "said A. Abdibait.
to this end, measures will be taken by Parliament and the Government, including the process of stabilizing the legislative budget policy and regulating public expenditure.	in this regard the government together with the parliament will take measures , including legislation , to develop new approaches to a balanced fiscal policy and improve the efficiency of public spending .	0,89
a winning path organized in the lobby of the Ministry of Internal Affairs club using museum funds of the internal affairs bodies! " on the subject of a photo documentary exhibition.
the mayor noted the positive dynamics of SME development in Almaty and noted that the metropolis is the most active business region of Kazakhstan.
of which more than 130 thousand are from the low-income category, 124 thousand are state employees and civil servants, and 44 thousand are orphans.	more than 130 thousand of them are people from the vulnerable layers of population , 24 thousand people are civil servants and representatives of the budget organizations and 44 thousand are orphans .	0,89
Former Estonian President A.Ruitel noted that the clear victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the presidential election will allow continuing the initiated reforms to join Kazakhstan among the 30 developed countries of the world by 2050.	former president of estonia a. ruutel noted that the impressive victory of nursultan nazarbayev is an opportunity to continue all the reforms initiated to bring kazakhstan to the top 30 developed countries .	0,89
In the first five-year plan, three times more foreign direct investment was attracted to the manufacturing sector than during the years of Kazakhstan's independence.
Bizhanov Oleg Abutalipul;
Dandhibayeva timura turarula,
dear compatriots!
respectful colleagues are awarded professors who have made a great contribution to the development of medical science and healthcare in Kazakhstan.
The entire automation system of Kazakhstan is borrowed from the South Korean experience.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the event the participants of the action took part in measures to preserve harmony and peace, seminars-trainings were held, consultations of lawyers, farmers and doctors were held.
today Kazakhstanis really voted for their future.
the new building will allow children to get a high-quality education.
military personnel not only independently cross mountain gorges, but also escort military equipment and cargo.
this measure is the fate of the country.
now the world from China to the Caspian Sea is connected by rail. now , from china to the caspian sea the railway is also connected .
Internet resource contains sections on small and medium-sized businesses, innovations, and the financial sector.
Majilov nurlan turarbekovich,
In addition, back air airlines will launch passenger transportation from the Urals to St. Petersburg.
abiders to the Nurgalym majitul,
Ms. Nafif and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to UNESCO Nurlan Danenov spoke at the official opening of the event.
17.7 million dollars of investments are provided for improving the energy efficiency of state socially significant facilities.
Also, as part of the memorandum this year, it is planned to purchase 22 sanitary vehicles from the local budget, in 2016 - 33 units at the expense of the republican budget. in addition , the purchase of 22 units of sanitary transport in 2015 and 33 units in 2016 is provided under the memorandum .
with a reduction in wages and benefits, Kazakhstan has become the only country that raises scholarships and pensions, implements new projects, creates jobs, "he said.
The Order of Friendship is one of the highest awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, awarded for great work in preserving unity in society, strengthening peace and friendship and cooperation between peoples.
An agreement is a bilateral international treaty and is concluded with a view to eliminating double taxation of the income of legal entities and natural persons resident in that or other Contracting State.
However, the workers themselves should be more competent in knowing the law and demand the conclusion of an employment contract, "said the head of the region.
we know that not only Kazakhs live here, but also representatives of other ethnic groups. we know that not only kazakhs live here , but other ethnic groups .
I wish everyone good health, happiness, further success, "said Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov.
this is clear evidence of an increase in the level of the national student league.
Currently, there are many schools, "says the adviser to the chairman of the board of the NPP, secretary of the Council for the Development of Youth Entrepreneurship Eldar Zhumagaziev.
According to the Central Election Commission, the elections are monitored by representatives of more than 1 thousand foreign states, international organizations and foreign media.
implementing the activity of "national champions" aimed at supporting specific companies-leaders of medium-sized businesses in non-resource sectors of the economy.
The Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan stressed that the signing of the agreement is a historically important and significant event in strengthening Kazakh-American legal cooperation, mobilizing the forces of the two countries in the fight against crime.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, veterans spoke about the events of 70 years ago.
since the future of the country is in the hands of its citizens, the voice of every Kazakhstani is very important, "the diamond mukamanov noted.
Because only a healthy nation can be competitive, "said the Minister of Culture and Sports.
isadilova muratbek kusainovich,
Mynzhanov Tursynat,
Kazakhstan intends to make full use of the experience of OECD member states, new methods and innovations, know-how, analyze the expert potential of eidu on the development of economic policy in the country.
The board was attended by the heads of central management bodies, the management of enterprises engaged in the production of electricity and energy resources "samruk-kazyna."
during the next trading at the electronic platform of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, academician Kazguz Shnkin Energy Institute "sold 50.0005% of securities at an electronic auction," the report said.
The Chairman of the Interstate Aviation Committee also noted that the unanimous support of voters is evidence of the recognition of the work of Nursultan Nazarbayev at the highest post of head of state.
today Kazakhstanis have once again proved their commitment to stability, peace and prosperity. today the people of kazakhstan once again have proved their commitment to stability , peace and prosperity .
the battle banner was brought to Kazakhstan from the worshipful mountain of Moscow.
As Kosarev noted, the "Nұrly zhol" program is designed to increase the state of small and medium-sized businesses by 2-3 times due to the preparation of a special site.
Tleugaliev Ashimkhanov,
In addition, for quarantine phytosanitary control, additional training is provided for specialists who can study on the basis of the "all-Russian plant quarantine" in Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan.
According to him, last year in the region increased the production of meat, milk, eggs.
we heard many congratulations from our mentors and guests.
residents receive counselling and treatment from qualified specialists without any obstacles.
"In general, the number of citizens participating in the" Train "My Kazakhstan" campaign amounted to 960 Kazakhstanis.
Considering the level and importance of UNESCO cooperation in promoting intercultural and interreligious dialogue with Kazakhstan, the Director General of Irina Bokova confirmed her participation in the upcoming congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
It should be noted that in Kyzylorda, in the year of the assembly, the "friendship house" was put into operation, which will become the site of joint events of all national cultural centers and the assembly operating in the field.
favorable living conditions have been created for employees of the enterprise, on the production site there is a hostel, two hotels, an autonomous heating boiler, a medical center, washrooms and laundry rooms, as well as a sports complex.
At the end, Atambayev wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health and success in the implementation of all set goals in a responsible position, and the fraternal Kazakh people - peace and well-being.
more than two years have passed since the functioning of the state educational savings system.	the state educational storage system has been launched one year ago .	0,89
nursultipates nurzhan nurlanbecula;	nursipatov nurzhan nurlanbekovich ;	0,89
As the head of the region noted, the work will be aimed at creating a tourism cluster, attracting investors in the development of road transport infrastructure.	in addition , the work will be aimed at attracting investors to set up a tourism group , to develop road transport infrastructures .	0,89
I said that the public service agency will become an important body, an important agency in the fight against corruption, and we will see how this will happen.
there are even classes with a lingaphone device, except for multimedia instruments.
According to the ambassador, Kazakhstan occupies a special place in the Central Asian region, demonstrating its readiness to implement institutional reforms.
regional development cannot be distinguished from economic diversification. regional development cannot be separated from economic diversification .
More than 9.9 thousand election commissions will work in the upcoming election campaign, "the head of the CEC explained.
but at this moment there are thousands of hopes and dreams of the Kazakh people, their selfless desire for freedom and independence. "
The Vatican ambassador introduced to the head of the region the new diocese of the Caraganda Roman Catholic bishop adelio del oro.
this is a big opportunity and a discount for the state. "
Following the meeting, the parties expressed interest in further strengthening cooperation between the ministry and the children's fund.
An important area of ​ ​ the three countries is production and technological cooperation.
the agreement provides for accountability for the disclosure and exchange of classified information, "the committee on economic policy, innovative development and entrepreneurship said in a statement.
The bill provides for the resolution of social issues related to youth employment.
10.mat production.
Together with the units of the States, which include the military contingent of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the issue of eliminating the illegal armed formation that invaded the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan was worked out.
According to B. Sagintayev, secondly, the issue of ensuring the sale of products by concluding long-term agreements with national companies and systemically important enterprises and tightening local content requirements was raised.
Chairman of the Presidium of the Kazenergosbytovy Association and Atameken visited a number of facilities of the regional center on a working trip to the Kyzylorda region.
According to the project manager, as part of the program, parks of several districts and rural districts of the Semipalatinsk region were repaired, several sports complexes were put into operation.
During the meetings, residents of the region will be able not only to raise problematic issues, but also to express their proposals and comments.
According to the ministry, the guests of the celebration invited the deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - the head of the secretariat, the chairman of the constitutional council of Igor horns, deputies elected to the Majilis of the parliament from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The Chairman of the Senate told the interlocutor about institutional reforms in Kazakhstan and readiness for the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, noting that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the participation of Ayatollah Mohsen in the religious forum.
The ambassador noted that Lithuania pays special attention to Ukrainian tensions, the fight against terrorism, the protection of civilians in conflict zones, issues of ensuring global security and human rights, the Senate said.
there are criminals who run abroad or hide traces.	to date , funds of support for victims functions in more than 20 countries of the world .	0,89
In November 2014, under the leadership of Deputy Minister of the Interior V. Bozhko, republican command and staff exercises "Winter-2014" were held on the topic "Readiness for the actions of the state civil defense system and management bodies during emergency situations in winter."
During the meeting, the parties noted the fruitfulness of cooperation in international and regional structures and did not hide gratitude for the growth of trade.
to appoint Karim Kazhymkanovich Massimov as Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
Mayor of Almaty congratulated veterans on the upcoming Day of Unity of the Peoples of Kazakhstan and the 70th anniversary of Victory Day.
In general, it is planned to repair 2.5 thousand km of roads at the expense of the provided funds in the republic, "the minister said.
after undergoing exercises, they pass a conclusion with exza.
Within the framework of the event for the development of international cooperation between the Republic of Korea and ECE, an agreement was reached in the field of electronic public procurement.
Megan McCabe Fitzgerald, Deputy Head of the Ecu/Diacb Mission, Deputy Chairman of the Central Election Commission, members of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, acting Sarsembayev and legal specialist of the Ecu/Diacb Mission.
The Council and Chairman of the Egyptian Association of Graduates of Russian Universities note that in recent years Kazakhstan has carried out a number of important reforms, built a new capital - the capital, and also puts forward important initiatives in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Kazakhstanis shared with neighboring countries the experience of creating e-government, mobile government, electronic licensing, and also noted the advantages of the CES in creating an integrated information system.
in addition, V.Bukanova did not hide the possibility of opening a special department on state youth policy on the basis of the Eurasian National University.
The meeting was also attended by deputies of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of the presidential administration, members of the government.
on the assignment of higher military and special ranks, class ranks, the head of state decided:
letters of Kazakh sultans in the Chagatai and Kalmyk languages, important inscriptions in the Manzhur language related to the diplomacy of the Kazakh Khanate and the Qing state were discovered.
firstly, this issue is aimed at acquiring agricultural machinery, since agriculture accounts for the largest investments. first of all , it concerns the issue of acquisition of agricultural machinery , as the largest investment we have in agriculture .
EXPO-2017 will be held in Kazakhstan, which is a very important event for Kazakhstan.
According to him, the document pays great attention to housing issues.
During the meeting, the parties discussed ways to develop and strengthen cooperation in the training of highly qualified specialists in the field of project and program management, and also signed a memorandum of cooperation between the Academy of Public Administration and the Association for the Management of Soviet Russian Projects, the statement said.
do not forget the representatives of the older generation, who have always been energetic and active, avoiding bad deeds.
farm capacity - 1440 tons of milk and 2880 tons of dairy products per year.
Recall that the head of state at the expanded meeting recalled that in today's world economy, the priority is the processing of agricultural goods and food production.
it is in this family that values ​ ​ of respect, labor, education and tolerance for the older are formed.
Thus, the proposal to reduce the patenting of certain objects in accordance with the practice of States of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development was approved.
At the same time, today the dollar remains the main world currency, and the economy in the world is the largest country.
athletes constantly paid attention to issues of physical culture and sports in the republic, and also expressed gratitude to the head of state for constant support.
Almaty has become a venue for major international events and a center of finance, culture and sports, tourism.
Mr. Rifai also noted the importance of implementing the great silk road program, which pays special attention to Kazakhstan.
According to the director of the shopping center, he guarantees Kazakhstani companies that legal contradictions will be established with Russian partners.
people should not be indifferent to this, this is an important matter for the future of the country, "said R. Evseev.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the development of inter-parliamentary diplomacy and bilateral relations. the issues of strengthening of bilateral relations and parliamentary diplomacy have been discussed .
we do everything to make the city center convenient for pedestrians. we do everything to provide the city center with pedestrians .
The amount of funds required to carry out work for these purposes is 49 million tenge.
the unprecedented show "Youth is the energy of the future!" April 10 as part of the international sports festival b. will be held at the Sports Palace.
It is reported that the first president of the country always determines policies aimed at the future in order to prevent especially territorial and complex changes and various threats taking place in the world, as well as improve the well-being of the people of Kazakhstan and ensure the stability and security of the state.
a resident of the city of Taiynsha, a veteran of the Great Patriotic War and fire fighting services.
However, as noted in the appeal, due to crisis events in the world, Kazakhstan is facing a decrease in demand for hydrocarbons.
I am sure that teenagers will see in this hall a wonderful game of actors that will reflect our history and the present, "the head of state said.
applicants who do not receive a future master's degree and phd under the program can apply for the future, "he added.
The issue is still being discussed, "said B. Imashev.
The Head of State also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan," aimed at bringing the reform in the public administration system and bringing into line with the norms of the new legislation adopted in 2014, the provisions of the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chairman of the Central Council of Veterans of Kazakhstan N.Ozganbayev informed the participants of the meeting about the planned events for the coming period.
at the same time, he noted that "the general task is competition without violations, discrimination, even and legal."
the activities of the Ukrainian cultural center "Vatra" include 4 main areas.
the representative office of the European Union is committed to supporting these goals and is ready to contribute as much as possible to their achievement, "the congratulation says.
The meeting was held on the sowing area of ​ ​ the peasant farm "Madi Kaji" in the village of Tserkovnoye.
Studying the areas of work of non-governmental organizations, a quarter of them work in the field of social protection, 17% - on the formation of a healthy lifestyle and the development of sports, 15% - on youth and children.
seminar "humanitarian portfolio of cross-border cooperation.
According to the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the provision of the population of the republic with electric and thermal energy is carried out in a constant mode.
One of the key political issues on the post-election agenda will be the beginning of presidential reforms and the reform of the state apparatus and the further modernization of the party-political system.
Working to update the object. the modernization of the airport is in full swing .
During the meeting with the adviser to the President of Romania, the head of the foreign policy department of the presidential administration Lazar Comanescu, it was noted that the official Bucharest will continue to support the implementation of joint projects in various sectors of the economy, as well as that Romania is ready to take on the promotion of Kazakhstan's interests in Europe.
To ensure the coordination of transplantation activities, a republican coordination center for organ transplantation has been established in the country, and representative offices have been opened in all regional centers, the capital and Almaty.
victory relay is a large-scale event that united the military of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia.
According to him, obtaining a portfolio of shares in trust management will not require additional costs for NPP
and white lines "akbulak," the report said.
In addition, he believes that Kazakh-Thai cooperation will become the basis for deepening cooperation between the Asian (Association of Southeast Asian States) and the Eurasian Economic Union, "the statement said.
As the Chairman of the EEC noted, the development of the EAEU opens up great opportunities for deepening integration between the economies of member states and the accession of new states.
According to the report, the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 46.8 billion tenge.
According to the industrialization map, 105 projects worth 46 billion tenge were implemented, about 5 thousand jobs were created.
Stefano Ravagnan noted that the head of state has extensive political experience in solving pressing international problems.
The head of state noted that the creation of an international financial center in the capital also requires work on the development of the transport and logistics industry.
then the war begins and the military career of the boring Abdraimov begins.
soldiers began to master the foundations of military science.
About three thousand mothers with many children with a "golden alka" and a "silver alka" in our city deserve great respect and gratitude.
we should not stop at this place, I propose opening a high-speed multimedia transport corridor "Eurasian transcontinental corridor."
The event was attended by more than 200 top managers and employees of state bodies of Kazakhstan and foreign countries.
Also, the Governor of the region visited the farm "hands in.," Engaged in the cultivation of sturgeons in the village farm Kemerovo.
within the framework of the first five-year plan of industrialization, the share of domestic production of building materials doubled.
the cost of these projects exceeded $2.5 billion.
In 2 regions of the republic, two pilot projects are being implemented under the chronic disease management program.
At the meeting, Governor of the region and his deputy Y. Aman, representatives of the competent administrations of the region's akimat discussed with the employees of the European Bank the issues of financing the implemented projects on the modernization of heat supply and water disposal systems, the regional akimat reported.
The Thai Minister also noted the efforts of Kazakhstan to develop a green economy, the measures of the Government of Kazakhstan to protect environmental systems.
in Beijing, the first vice-president of the Kazakh cycling federation Raimbek Batals met with the general secretary of the Chinese cycling federation, Ms. Han Zhilyn.
mobile raid groups will also be created to control the territory of the Belzhayyk state natural reserve.
It is noted that during the meeting the rules of work of the Eurasian Economic Commission were signed.
in particular, it is necessary to bring to the design capacity the projects included in the industrialization map.
According to representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country, the event was attended by state bodies, leading economic organizations and more than 70 Israeli companies.
A meeting is also planned with the speaker of the Senate of the Dutch Parliament and the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Relations, as well as representatives of the Center for Entrepreneurs.
on the first day of the world, the play will be shown throughout the year in Moscow, the capital, Tashkent, Dushanbe, the city and Chisinau.
Now the technologies created in large world companies 5-7 years ago are considered obsolete, and in our field of mining a number of companies work on outdated technologies. now the world 's largest companies use 5-7 years outdated technology , and we have some mining companies that use obsolete technologies .
Of these, 7 billion tenge will be used to subsidize the interest rate on credit and leasing obligations as part of financial recovery. seven billion tenge will be allocated to subsidize the interest rate on the loan and leasing obligations under financial recovery .
To develop economic knowledge in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to strengthen scientific potential, accelerate the transfer of knowledge and technologies within the framework of innovative projects, increase the effectiveness of the national innovation system and its main institutions.
The concert, staged by artists on the battlefield, raised morale, strengthened strength and confidence, and also facilitated their passion for family and relatives, "said the famous Kazakh correspondent, Honored Worker of Culture, who fought on the fronts and worked in the rear during the war.
During the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that Kazakhstan supports the Afghan national unity government led by President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah.
This task will be assigned to Karaganda State Technical University, taking into account the sectoral specialization in the central region.
previously, the industrial park included only large enterprises. earlier only large enterprises could join the industrial park .
the new school will be heated on blue fuel through a separate boiler room.
the institution is equipped with equipment that meets world standards, modern exhibition technologies are used for expositions.
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-November last year increased by 11.8% and amounted to 18887 people.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister informed the interlocutors about the active activities carried out by the Foreign Ministry at the invitation of international observers and the exchange of views.
The project of the industrial zone of the Alatau region has been launched.
The main goal of the memorandum is mutual cooperation of the parties aimed at improving the health of the Kazakh people.
For 3 days of the festival, more than 300 talented young people competed in other genres: dancing, songs, oratory.
gradual expansion of academic and managerial independence of universities taking into account the experience of Nazarbayev University.
In general, the entrepreneur buys raw materials from local citizens, after which he conducts laboratory studies, "the report said.
In the first phase of the steppe nut exercise, the ability of the kazbat peacekeeping battalion to carry out the tasks assigned to the multinational force in accordance with multidisciplinary peacekeeping operations is tested.
In general, the final results of the elections to the CEC of Kazakhstan should be approved 7 days after the elections, that is, not earlier than May 3, 2015.
In this regard, our main goal is to maintain the dynamic growth of the city's economy, which shows a positive result, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
we are confident that the Kazakh people are facing great coups.
- What projects are planned to be launched in Aktobe region in 2015?
you will have "difficult days, Kazakhstan - all" I am a Kazakhstani! " will become such a country as proudly says. "
The opening in the capital of Kazakhstan of a plant for the production of optical devices of aselsane engineering is an indicator of the close connection between the defense complexes of the two countries.
The upcoming XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party is really a historical event.
It is worth noting that the voters did not choose on instructions, but of their own free will, "he said.
I believe that it is impractical to rush.
according to him, today, when Kazakhstan is recognized by the countries of the world, the American state throughout the ocean recognizes our country as a strategic partner.
This year, 15-20 centers will be opened in the capital on June 4, where Kazakh and Russian stars will spend time with visitors.	besides , nearly 2,000 kazakhstani children , including disabled kids , orphans and kids from low-income families , will attend the ceremony in astana on june 5 .	0,90
metallurgy of the national economy, chemical production, gas stations and the production of building materials and agriculture are developed here.	the most developed sectors of the economy are metallurgy , machine tools , chemical industry , production of auto parts and building materials , agriculture .	0,90
Inclusion of law enforcement officials in the public service.	29 . appointing staff of law enforcement agencies to the state service system .	0,90
To date, tenders have been held, pesticide suppliers, executors of their storage, transportation and processing have been identified.	a tender to determine the supplier of pesticides has been held , performers of their storage , transportation and carrying out chemical treatments are defined .	0,90
the most relevant issues on the international agenda were also considered.	they also have discussed the most relevant aspects of the international agenda .	0,90
Together with him, Kazakhstan will achieve great success, "said the acting head of the department for youth policy nurlybek daums.
in particular, Kazakhstan, being a politically stable and dynamically developing state, is considered as the main partner of Doha in the region, "the report said.
The meeting was attended by the leadership of the presidential administration, representatives of interested ministries and departments, members of the scientific and expert council of the KHA.
As noted in the report, the result of restoration work was the opening by Air Astana of regular flights along the Ural-Amsterdam route, as well as along the route Ural-capital.
in the program of the solemn event performed by students of the gymnasium No. 17 "Great Victory - a Contribution to the Generation!" the opening of the exhibition "Followers of Victory" from the musical and museum fund, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
including production of motor fuel of k5 ecosystem, processing of ore with a capacity of 400 thousand tons, construction of a mining complex, "- said a.sekeshev.
this model is an achievement of public policy over the years of independence.
The participants of the meeting noted the priority of the partnership and noted the need to increase ties between the two countries, including inter-parliamentary diplomacy, to a new level.
At the same time, about 500 personnel and 200 pieces of equipment were involved in the inspection.
In the reporting academic year, 177,678 qualified specialists are planned to be trained, which is an increase of 2013/2014 compared to 172,810 (2.7%).
Celebrating the 10th anniversary of the Constitution, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his speech noted that a thorough study of the constitution is the largest school of democracy.
the implementation of a state significant project will give a great impetus to the country's economy.
The Governor also got acquainted with the activities of the livestock complex of Kamyshenka LLP.
The head of the Kazakh department thanked the Japanese government for the grant for conservation work on the territory of the World Heritage Site - an ancient town.
its share in the region amounted to 9.2% of the total investment.
According to the results of the competition, the first place was taken by a group of the Merken district, in second place by students of the Talas region and in 3rd place by students of the Talas region.
In addition, according to the press service of the Ministry of Education and Science, in 2015, at the expense of the National Fund and the republican budget, 3 billion tenge was allocated for the creation of 24 new laboratories based on educational institutions.
Presenting an honorary badge, the president of the international engineering academy Boris gusev congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his best victory in the recent presidential election and said that the head of state is of great importance for the development of engineering science in the post-Soviet space.
The capital is now rejoicing in its large-scale appearance, "said an observer from the Russian Federation.
if employers create jobs for disabled people, we are ready to subsidize them.
we support the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to hold elections and believe that during this difficult period, the people of Kazakhstan, under your leadership, need to gain a foothold around the leader of the nation of a multinational country in order to successfully pass global tests, "the letter says.
we are engaged in the prevention of social orphanhood.
The Governor also instructed to continue the work to support small and medium-sized businesses and their business activities.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Ratification of the Agreement of the Member States of the Customs Union on Elimination of Technical Barriers in Mutual Trade with the Member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States that are not Member States of the Customs Union"
The report also notes that today it is very important to educate young people who know how to appreciate unity, peace and harmony.
Governor of Akmola region Sergey kulagin visited a number of social facilities during a working trip. governor of akmola region sergei kulagin visited a number of social facilities with the working visit .
During the press conference, the Permanent Mission of Kazakhstan to the UN drew the attention of the participants of the event on the topic: Nazarbayev's international initiative is an atomic project.
The Government of Kazakhstan pays close attention to issues related to the conditions for the formation of labor safety. the government of the republic of kazakhstan pays considerable attention to safe working conditions .
The transition to the market is the main goal of all companies, because the situation is changing.
It is also noted that food production increased by 2.9%.
this is not for nothing your work, your business is successfully continued by the new generation of today's Kazakhstanis, and their work is recognized by the whole world, "the head of state said.
The National Guard is headed by a leader, whose position is indicated in the eighth article of the bill.
As part of the team of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan on taekwondo, there are servicemen of the Republic of Kazakhstan km aoski anuar usen, diamond of mukamans, Islamgali abuov, marat abdykaliyev, ruslan zhaparov, festive zhunusova and sultan kalibekula.
increasing global demand for food, rising long-term food prices, increasing the population of developed countries, climate change give impetus to agricultural development in Kazakhstan. growing global demand for food , long-term increase in food prices , population growth in developing countries and global climate change are becoming a significant stimulus for the development of agriculture in kazakhstan .
Recall that this year the certification of officers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan will be held in two stages.
Recall that the construction will be completed this year.
Director of the Kazakh branch of Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosova A. Sidorovich on behalf of the staff of the educational institution congratulated the head of state on his high authority in the international arena and before citizens of the whole country.
Within the framework of the "Days of Kazakhstan," the Kazakh delegation held meetings with representatives of business communities of the region, detailed the industrial opportunities of the West Kazakhstan region and called on Turkish businessmen to implement various investment projects in the Kazakh-Turkish industrial zone planned in Uralsk.
The head of the secretariat of the congress drew the attention of members of the state commission "to the possibility of holding this forum and ensuring its holding at a high level."
As Deputy Governor of Astana Nural Aliyev noted, "the capital is a young, intense metropolis.
only your policy aimed at protecting the interests of the entire Kazakh people can bring the country to a new stage of development, effectively solve the task of Kazakhstan to become one of the most powerful states in the world. only your forward-looking policy aimed at protecting the interests of all people of kazakhstan is able to bring the country to a new stage of development , to meet the challenge of becoming one of the most powerful countries in the world .
we see that modern technologies are being introduced, due to which production is increasing.
every year the flow of guests and tourists, including foreign tourists, increases.
the conference call discussed the progress in the formation of a single classifier of categories of cases in the "arbitration" system.
in choosing the partners of our union, we must, first of all, adhere to the principle of what benefit this will bring to our states, "said K. Maxim.
including the improvement of high-speed and high-speed routes, intercity communication, as well as the development of interaction between various modes of transport of passenger transport in order to make passenger transport convenient and accessible to the most visited.
we need to increase the importance of development research and its use in production.
The head of state noted the importance of timely spring field work this year and in the future. the president announced that it is very important this year and in any other year to conduct the arrangements for spring field works .
The mandate of the Ecu Program office provides for various projects in Kazakhstan with three security criteria (military-political, economic-environmental, humanitarian) in cooperation with central and local state bodies and departments.
parliamentarians and civil servants took an active part in the improvement of the left bank, as last year, the press service of the Majilis reports.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, of them 2,218 primary entrepreneurs, 462 current entrepreneurs, 719 citizens of the youth category.
in particular, the state will continue to improve legal and organizational mechanisms to counter terrorism and extremism, take measures to increase the equipment of special units and their readiness for anti-terrorist operations.
I think that a number of Akmola industries have a full opportunity to become a platform for additional investment, relying on financial assistance. hearing about the arrival of the delegation from akmola region , we were intrigued , and , in fact , the meeting exceeded our expectations .
Your loyalty to your country has turned Kazakhstan from a large state into a country with rich content, the telegram says. your devotion to your country has turned kazakhstan , a country with a large area , into the country with rich content , " the telegram says .
Kazakhstan pays great attention to attracting investments in energy, despite the fact that the country has such high indicators. despite a high rate of our country , kazakhstan attaches great importance to investments in the energy sector .
we ensured the security of all polling stations, taking them under 24-hour protection from the moment the ballots were imported.
Director of the International Center for Taxes and Investments D. Witt noted that the elections were another step towards the formation of democratic institutions for the benefit of future generations in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
many countries took part in this war, millions of people died on the frontlines and as many were injured, loved ones were injured. a large number of countries participated in that war , millions of people were killed , the same number of people were injured , their relatives suffered .
K. Zhakupov reported on Kazakhstan's contribution to the implementation of tasks aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of the world community.
The Chairman of the Senate noted that Jordan's attitude to the formation of interaction between world religions and faiths has a common relation to Kazakhstan, stressing that Islam is an irreconcilable religion, as well as the importance of dialogue between representatives of different religions is manifested in the "Amman message."
concessional lending to SMEs and investment projects through large business and development institutions.
8,897 objects worth 50.7 billion tenge were legalized.
The Law on Military Service and the Status of Military Personnel introduces a norm on providing food for them in case of military participation in peacekeeping operations and sending military citizens to sanatorium and resort places after returning from peacekeeping operations.
In turn, Mikhail Podolyakov thanked the guys for organizing the meeting and expressed his wishes.
the results of this study will be used to improve the 11-year educational program, "said A. Sarinzhpiov.
all military personnel living in them in military units, as well as members of their families and other voters living in the places of deployment of military units.
here it is necessary to establish relations with China, "he said.
we need such specialists, "concluded Buribekov.
Thanks to this exhibition, we wanted to show that everything can be done in this direction, "said A. Abdibaitova.
Along with information about exploits at the front, the videos have interesting data on the pre-war/post-war life of the heroes.
in recent years, there has been an increase in the number of graduates of residency.
cultural heritage of the population, including modern national culture, restoration of folklore and traditions, historical, cultural and architectural monuments of particular importance to national history, a generalization of the age-old experience of national literature and writing, world scientific thoughts in the state language, in order to obtain all information about the state program, which provides for the creation of a full-fledged system for the study of background education based on the best achievements of culture and literature, You must go through the link to the cultural heritage site on the home page of the site.
The meeting heard reports from heads of contracting companies on the work done, the state of roads in winter and the preparation of building materials for spring. at the meeting berik kamaliyev debriefed the leaders of the contractors on the completed work , winter maintenance , preparing for spring floods and procurement of construction materials .
As for the coverage of the election activities of candidates for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, from March 26, 8,964 materials were sent on this topic, 3,442 of which were published in republican gardens and another 5,522 in regional gardens.
The seminar-training is carried out in preparation for the process of public control over the presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the marine local differential station (bautino, coast of the Caspian Sea) generates and distributes in the radio beacon mode corrective information on the navigation signals of the fuselage in order to ensure the safety of ships at the entrance to the port (harbor) and within the declared area of ​ ​ operation during maneuvers.
The main goal of today's event is to increase the interest of young people with disabilities in life, adapt them to art, demonstrate and put their unique abilities on the stage, "said activists of the Young Motherland regional youth wing.
this, on the one hand, is new opportunities, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the conference participants highly appreciated the measures and economic benefits from the prospects for the development of various industries set forth in this document, paying attention to the relevance of the message of the President of Kazakhstan.
Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. wished Nazarbayev his good wishes and success in the work of Ambassador A. Abdramanova.
Today, the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was launched, where all well-known politicians, the best leaders of enterprises spoke, competitions in various areas of activity were announced. today apk 's year has been started , where all outstanding politicians , the best business leaders have been acted .
the soloist of the "Astana Opera," who recently won the Russian project "Big Opera," managed to meet with the great master, whose name is immortalized in gold letters in the history of opera art.
attracting strategic (anchor) investors who have the best experience in creating tourist clusters.
During the meeting, he noted that all events for the establishment of jubilees, including measures aimed at strengthening stability and interethnic harmony in society, should reflect the Kazakhstan model of our social cooperation and unity, all achievements of a culture of peace and mutual understanding.
According to him, significant funds were spent on the development of the current industry, and the activity of the domestic auto industry is generally good.
increased share of Kazakhstan's collateral. the kazakhstan 's share should be increased .
our victory is the noble work of all the inhabitants of the village of Will, as well as the work of rural citizens who moved to the southern capital. our victory is a merit of all villagers of uil , especially those who now live in the southern capital .
funding for physical culture and sports from the regional budget is increased annually.
the seminar was organized by the Academy of Public Administration together with the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the end of the meeting, K. Turgankulov wished the experts of the ecu/diakb mission success in an honest and honest election contest.
we must strive to make laws more effective.
The event was attended by representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission, the federal customs service and its territorial customs departments, representatives of the Russian Federation, organizations working to ensure the information security of Russian and customs authorities.
on this path, a new generation will call on the whole world to mobilize efforts for one goal, "the director concluded.
The world of Kazakhstan this year signed a joint action plan.
May this bright holiday bring happiness and joy to every family, "the akim of the region said.
now there (in the ancient Taraz area - aa) 4 archaeological groups are working, which are tasked with completing before September, that is, before the start of the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, "K. tuyakbayev said.
every year I watch a military parade, every year you can see how military equipment is developing, that warriors are heroic. from year to year the parade is becoming better : technology grows , servicemen look better .
Also, at the expense of an individual entrepreneur, a friends complex is being built in the village.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that during the implementation of the country's industrialization program, the demand for highly qualified engineering specialists will increase.
The Minister introduced him to the policy of investing in human capital, which is being successfully implemented, the process of creating a national commission for upcoming institutional reforms and modernization in Kazakhstan, including the creation of a highly qualified government, ensuring the rule of law, increasing state accountability and diversifying the economy.
the festive mood of people is felt. it feels festive mood .
height of at least 176 centimeters and age should not have exceeded 30 years. the growth should be not less than 176 centimeters , age - until 30 years .
Today we can share the results, out of 300 companies, 90 are first recognized as the best, 32 of them have been formed, our total work will take 3 years. at the first stage we selected 90 companies , and now the list includes about 32 companies .
today's action opened the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	deputy governor of the region n. nurkenov noted the ceremony has launched the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	0,90
this is profitable and costly for Kazakhstani parents.
Bills on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on natural monopolies and regulated markets and on the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on gambling" (second reading) are considered in the second reading.
Since 2011, 28 thousand people received microcredit, which created 26 thousand jobs.
dena is the main coordinator of many projects and programs in the field of energy saving.
the protesters heard a "friendship table," and the youth held a flash mob called "We are friendly forces."
special units jump using a new parachute system.
the connection was needed for the war, and we did it.
bisenkulov strong baibol,
As last year, participants received wide support for the project.
we receive weapons of planned intimidation at the expense of the local and republican budgets using all technologies of world practice, "said Deputy Minister R. Zhakupov.
our entire economy was formed exclusively from border-economic influence, all of it was managed outside Kazakhstan.
the UN Deputy Secretary General for Economic and Social Affairs wu Hongbo, the Deputy Secretary General for the Internal Audit Service lapointe pocket and the Secretary General of Intosai expressed congratulations to the participants of the Joseph Moser Symposium, the Ministry of Defense said.
As noted in the department, the water level was stabilized in the village of Karoy, an electric network was carried out, and humanitarian assistance was organized.
Demeuov marat;
in the conductor field, the famous Chinese conductor Liu Jia.
Now an important step is the ability to direct the main forces to the right direction during the upcoming election campaign.
total cost of the enterprise project covered by modern technologies - 2089.03 million tenge.
The Kazakh-Lithuanian business forum with the participation of two prime ministers of the two countries will also be held today.
The event was attended by veterans of the Great Patriotic War and the rear, representatives of the young generation.
Kazakhstan will increase employment in services by 830 thousand jobs by the year, "he said.
now the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has become an institution of people's power.
at the level of deputy akims of cities and districts, they amounted to 20.8%, at the level of akims of villages and rural districts - 42.9%.
potential consumers are transformers - large oil and gas companies, energy enterprises and the railway.
According to the regional Governor's Office, last year the water conservation technology was used for 4986 hectares, this year it is planned to increase to 9355.4 hectares.
According to the ministry, topical issues of migration, internal migration flows and labor supply were discussed.
many of our teachers "are actively working on the introduction of innovative requirements for the educational process of our time, research and development."
commodity prices depended on the value of money in the global financial markets, "said deputy director kzi.
the success of the Eurasian integration project is of interest in many states, that is, in joining or creating a free trade zone. the success of the eurasian integration project causes interest in a number of the countries in cooperation in the form of joining or creation of a free trade zone .
I think that this will be a big help for the residents of Kazakhstan, "said the vice president.
the development and implementation of a national project to strengthen the civic identity of "my country," which will include a series of technological projects.
the presence of its own satellite is of great strategic importance for improving the efficiency of the sectors of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan. having our own remote sensing satellites has a very important strategic significance to improve the effectiveness of the various sectors of the economy of kazakhstan .
The parties paid special attention to the deepening of trade and economic, transit relations between the two states, including in the field of agriculture.
the main products of the plant - ceramic granite - are focused on sales in the Republic of Kazakhstan and abroad.
In 2012, 375 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the repair of the highway, and 100 million tenge was allocated for the construction of a new bridge.
Mr. Tuimebayev informed the interlocutor about the achievements of Kazakhstan's independence, about the reforms implemented within the framework of the main provisions of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Nұr Zhol Message, as well as about the events to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in 2015, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
transfer of all unused land to the state fund for further privatization.
and to protect him is not only our task, but also our honor.
the competition is held as part of the project "energy-efficient design of residential buildings."
According to KTZ, the construction of a passenger terminal with an area of ​ ​ 34,000 square meters. m will be carried out in two stages, which will increase the capacity to 2.5 million passengers per year.
he emphasized the achievements of this state in the development and promotion of the sports movement.
Within the framework of the session on radicalization and countering the phenomenon of foreign soldiers, a presentation of the experience of improving the national anti-terrorist system of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held.
The solemnity of the reception gave special importance to the ceremony of awarding representatives of Finnish society for their contribution to the development of bilateral cooperation.
By the beginning of the new academic year in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov visited the Semipalatinsk garrisons with the growth of the regional command "east."
According to the leadership of Nazarbayev University, business structures and experts in the field of economics show great interest in the activities of the educational institution.
the basic law, based on the principles of justice, legality and discipline, is a document that allows every citizen of our country to plan public and state life, "said Colonel Ibrahim Kulshimbayev, acting head of the railway of Astana.
if before the amendments to the legislation there were 130 thousand, today - 217 thousand.
at the same time, special attention is paid to physical and military training, education, specialty, psychological state and moral and business qualities of the younger generation for the qualitative selection of conscripts for military service.
To implement these plans, he proposed to organize a visit of business representatives of Houston to Kazakhstan in 2015.
The heads of state also discussed key areas of cooperation and coordination within the framework of various international organizations and other multilateral structures, such as the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Eurasian Economic Union.
for example, Europeans are now going to Isis - the British, the French.
especially in the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
During the meeting, the police colonel B.Bisenkulov handed over to the West Kazakhstan law enforcement officers the demands of the Minister of Internal Affairs, and also instructed the Head of State n.a.nazarbayev. He drew attention to the need to create conditions for the effective implementation of the large-scale tasks outlined in the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," to continue the transition to a new model of criminal law and criminal proceedings, ensuring a rigorous prompt response to all statements and statements about crimes without reducing the performance of services and units.
Along with the documents of r.egizbayev, the book contains materials about the movements of the "Chekist" detachment, which were our fellow countrymen.
The report notes that the amount of funds allocated by Varavarinskoye JSC to support social projects is increasing annually.
In addition, more than 1 thousand 26 observers of foreign countries, representatives of international organizations and foreign parks will monitor the upcoming elections.
acquired new wide rooms, a dining room and a washroom for workers, new equipment.
As noted at Akmola Media Center, those wishing to try themselves in the competition need to present projects on energy efficiency, water conservation, waste processing, modern agricultural technologies.
Because this is an important document aimed at a long-term period, "said the head of the Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan during the government meeting.
Currently, Kazakhstan is leading in the real growth of the manufacturing industry among the member countries of the customs union, "the report said.
The implementation of this project in recent years has become one of the important issues, since the existing communication network did not meet modern requirements. the issue of implementation of the project was very serious in recent years , because the action line does not meet the modern requirements .
the school has 20 study rooms, 2 computer science rooms, 1 multimedia room, library, assembly and sports halls, a dining room, 4 medical rooms, 2 workshops and 1 interactive board.
therefore, I believe that participation in this competition is interesting for me and my colleagues.
Three 60-apartment buildings and two 50-apartment buildings in the "arai" area are scheduled to begin in March and be completed in September.
development. "
the first direction is the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
This type of state support was received monthly by 245.8 thousand women, "the report said.
The meeting was attended by the assistant to the president - the secretary of the security council nurlan ermekbayev and the head of the law enforcement system department of the presidential administration, members of the public council at the prosecutor general's office and deputies of parliament.
The forum will allow the implementation of national projects aimed at health care, improving the quality of medical care.
A. Rudskoy thanked the head of state for initiating a national action in support of World War II veterans, noting that congratulations and gifts received for the New Year had a good effect on him.
a large stud farm has been established in the area. "
In turn, M. Abdel Jr. thanked the republic for the invitation to take part in an important event and noted that she intends to find new mechanisms to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and African countries, which are one of the leading countries in Central Asia, the report said.
In addition, it is important for us to maintain good relations with colleagues and develop all areas within its framework.
In addition, young specialists spoke at the meeting, who spoke about the achievements in their profession, their contribution to the development of the country's economy and achievements in sports.
the law is aimed at improving relations in the field of intellectual property.
the seminar was attended by Russian and Kazakhstani universities.
The agenda of the meeting consists of a wide range of issues of multilateral cooperation of the CIS countries in the economic, innovative, technical and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
according to an international agreement, each State entering into an agreement shall ensure the possibility of paying taxes only once - in one of the contracting States. according to the international documents , each of the contracting states provides to the taxpayer the opportunity to pay the tax only once in one of the contracting states .
In 2014, electricity consumption amounted to 91.6 billion kWh. the import of electricity at the end of 2014 amounted to 644 million kilowatt hours , the export-2.9 billion kilowatt hours .
a detachment of irbis seekers excavates in the battlefields of World War II.
among his awards are the Order of the Patriotic War of the 2nd degree, the medal "For Courage," as well as other anniversary medals.
Bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Aidu will increase the competitiveness of the country in the system of public administration, education, health care, employment, state policy and will improve the business climate.
in some regions in the morning there is high activity at polling stations, "said P. Mamedova.
The combination of support for small and medium-sized businesses allowed to increase their number to 44 in 2010 and 33 in 2014.
The parties considered projects that can be implemented in the production sector in Kazakhstan.
In this regard, at a meeting of the Central Election Commission on April 7, 2015, a decision was made to amend Decree of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 26, 2015 No. 19/43 "On ballots for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015" and increase the total number of ballots being prepared.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, famous Kazakhstanis - representatives of creative intelligentsia, public figures, athletes and others will take part in the subbotnik.
1,122 loans totaling 2837 million tenge were issued for all these areas.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the purpose of the meeting is to explain the main goals of the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015, the most important points of the message of the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future" and provide information about expo 2017.
If previous programmes raise the question of how to get out of an economic crisis or how to form a state, then in this program we go to a dynamic international level.
As of May 6, an additional agreement has been concluded on our part for the construction of 306 thousand 5 rental apartments with an area of ​ ​ 413 thousand square meters. as of may 6 , we signed contracts for construction and purchase of 5416 apartments with a total area of 306 thousand square meters .
accordingly, when entering the civil service, these requirements are included in the qualification requirements.
my father participated in the war with his faithful harmony companion. my dad was a war with the faithful companion - an accordion .
According to the press service, the EEC board approved the proposal of the board of the commission "On the development of cooperation between the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union in the field of production of building materials, including cement and glass."
On the eve of International Women's Day, the Chairman of the Senate K.Tokayev congratulated the senators on the upcoming holiday.
"I believe that the creation by the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a sign of his personal wisdom and policy.
all juvenile courts also have special offices adapted to communicate with the child and the psychologist.
all the things we consume come with the labors of the workers.
such a training method has already been introduced into world experience.
In particular, training trainings and seminars will be organized for start-up entrepreneurs, "the head of the secretariat of the Chairman of the Presidium of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan said at the opening of the meeting.
the number of signatures and their collection are not limited, "the CEC secretary said.
The conditions for lending to individuals for the purchase of a domestic car, approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, are as follows: the nominal rate of remuneration - no more than 14% per annum, as well as the annual effective rate (includes all commissions, insurance and registration of cars as collateral) - should not exceed 7.5%. the conditions for lending of individuals for the purchase of vehicles of domestic production , approved by the government of kazakhstan are following : the nominal interest rate - not more than 4 % per annum , with an annual effective rate ( including the cost of insurance and registration of motor vehicles as collateral ) must not exceed 7.5 % per annum .
in the future, it is planned to produce a national drink on the markets of the CIS countries and Europe.
today they can realize their constitutional task, on the one hand, they have the right to choose their future, choose their own direction and evaluate power and actions, "said N. Nazarbayev.
It is worth noting that the competition was held in two stages.
among priority issues e. Idrissov noted the issues of concluding sectoral contracts in the field of science and technology, simplifying the visa regime for Kazakhstanis.
In general, the celebration of this memorable date, on the one hand, will serve as an impetus for the improvement of statehood, on the other hand, will open the way to the development of historical sciences of a new nature, the historian concluded.
Kazakhstan has begun the construction of an aviation technical center for the maintenance and repair of aircraft as part of the development of technical potential in the field of aviation, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov.
According to the press service of Akorda, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Angela Merkel discussed the results of the talks between the presidents of Russia, Ukraine, France and the German Chancellor in Minsk in the "Norman format."
in accordance with article 43, paragraph 3, of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on elections, votes are considered separate for each candidate.
As N. Shukeev noted, by the middle of this year, by the fall, the company's operational activity in the supply of equipment is planned.
According to the senator, the issues of state support were settled in the form of long-term and preferential budget lending for the modernization and construction of water supply, sanitation and heat supply systems, as well as the implementation of subsidies as an economic incentive for the development of housing and communal services.
this will lead to deep integration of countries, as well as to regional unification.
As noted in the Mayor's Office of Semey, he focused on the global economic processes that drew the attention of the audience to the writing of the message.
the military sphere has its own features: from admission to training, training of graduates, subsequent appointment of them to certain positions in military units, transfer of a place of work in service, professional development, retraining of military personnel.
the program defines the directions of the future development of our organization and its main goal is the implementation of the tasks specified in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
here, along with the modern appearance of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the army and types of weapons during the Great Patriotic War are demonstrated.
in addition, the service offers users to increase customer loyalty by offering control over online work, as well as convenient access to services through their personal account without visiting "kazakhtelecom" white service points.
In total, more than 170 snipers from the airborne assault, motorized rifle brigades and reconnaissance units of the airmobile troops of Kazakhstan took part in the gathering.	the turn-outs were attended by over 170 snipers from air assault brigades , infantry and reconnaissance units of the airmobile forces of kazakhstan .	0,91
Compared to the same period last year, this indicator increased by 75.3 thousand people, or 0.9%.	compared to the same period of last year their number increased by 75.3 thousand people or 0.9 % .	0,91
investment subsidies compensate part of the costs aimed at creating new or expanding existing production capacities in the agro-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I think that your activities at the highest state post will contribute to the further development of Kazakhstan and the development of bilateral beneficial relations between Moldova and Kazakhstan for the benefit of the peoples of the two countries, the telegram says.
A special place in the interior of the hall is occupied by the performances of the city of the capital and burabaya, a 3D watch depicting a baiterek and a cabinet with Kazakh souvenirs.
all children have the right to education regardless of their physical and intellectual behavior, that is, everything can be corrected, everyone needs help. we want to say that all children have the right to education regardless of their physical and mental abilities that all can be corrected , all need help .
I tell the people that I say to young people - we must avoid such malice, futility.	at the same time some families are sent , but wives and children do not let go ,  the president added .
this training is carried out on an ongoing basis with the participation of military personnel of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of partner countries in NATO and instructors of the "Casenta."
gross domestic product increased 2.2% in the first quarter. the growth of short-term economic indicators for the first quarter of this year has amounted to 102 % .
In this regard, your descendants experience the countless courage that they have committed for our future, "said Lieutenant Colonel Igor Tikhonenko, deputy commander of military unit 28738 for educational and socio-legal work.
during the meeting, reports were heard on the results of the commission's activities and the results of the inspection of universities.
therefore, we ask you to take into account the proposal of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, as well as to participate in the presidential elections.
Following the meeting, the board was instructed to develop and conduct spring field work in a timely manner, implement the Agribusiness 2020 program, as well as continue work on increasing meat exports and diversifying sown areas.
each of the paintings is the story and fate of citizens who saw the war. each picture is a piece of history and the fate of war .
Considering that under various programs you can use preferential financing measures in the amount of 60-70% of the cost of the project, the entrepreneur needs to invest 30-40 million tenge at his own expense, which will be enough for many entrepreneurs, "he said.
if they cannot sell their goods, then there may be problems with the local budget, "he added.
an indicator of the high culture of law and political activity of citizens of Kazakhstan was active participation in the elections of voters, aimed at political stability, security and development of the country, as well as reforms implemented under the leadership of the President of the Nazarbayev.
however, they all wished the people happiness, well-being and a peaceful life.
According to the Ministry, during the conversation the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev's official visit to the Kuwaiti country.
Letters in support of the head of state also came from public associations and educational institutions.
By specific weight of sunflower production volumes (54.3%), the region ranks first in the republic, potatoes (13.4%) - third, vegetables (7.0%) - fourth, cereals (4.2%) - fifth place.
the state pays great attention to culture, art and literature.
the bill provides for the obligation, distribution and payment of the collected remuneration to organizations managing property rights on a collective basis, the conclusion says.
we worked for several days, monitored the preparations for the early presidential election. we have been working for several days , examined the course of preparation .
joint research groups are being created with the rest of the states, at about 1-1.5 stage a decision will be made on their transition to negotiations, "T. added.
duplication of proposals to involve the private sector in the construction, maintenance and management of penitentiary institutions and the study of international experience.
the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises increased and amounted to 115 thousand.
In particular, citizens of Russia, Japan, Italy, Uluskitania, Turkey, Bulgaria, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Kyrgyzstan and other countries arrived in umx subsidiaries to receive highly specialized medical care, the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
Also, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan decided to refuse to register the bakhtiyar estemesov as a candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan due to non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the constitutional law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" with the requirements for presidential candidates of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
that is, there is no reason to fear that the agricultural credit corporation will stop funding, on the contrary, you will have more new sources of funding.
In addition, according to the director of the customs clearance department, work will continue to stimulate clean entrepreneurs through the institution of an authorized economic operator.
investors presented the project of the planned meat processing plant.
this will reduce the cost of innovative projects implemented by the state, in accordance with which it will reduce the existing burden of the republican budget, as well as reduce the payback period of the project.
this will save most of the budget, "he said at a briefing.
having received the title of World Artist, he takes an active part in all international competitions.
at the first congress of women of Kazakhstan, the head of state thanked all women, and you saved not only your family, but also one country, "concluded R. Sarsembayev.
In accordance with the Decree of the President of Kazakhstan of February 3, 2015 No. 997 in the city of Aktobe, 8 mothers with many children were awarded the Golden Collegium and Silver Collegium government awards, the report said.
beginner leaders learned about speaking skills, negotiations, discussions, secrets of speaking to the audience.
At the same time a. Shokybaev noted that his country is currently interested in the development of Islamic financing, in connection with which there are huge prospects for cooperation between the two countries in this direction.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, 200 best teachers from 57 universities of the country will be awarded state grants (2000 aek).
According to the adopted roadmap, 8.1 billion tenge was allocated to facilitate their life over two years.
The head of the city noted the merits of Almaty residents to the state, active public affairs, a great contribution to the socio-economic and spiritual development of the country.
The exhibition "Beginning of Unity," organized specifically for the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, was held in the house of friendship.
Export of Knowledge and Cooperation in Distance Education. "
Chairmen of parliamentarians of the Eurasian and CIS member states, members of the Eurasian Economic College, economists and leading scientists will discuss issues related to the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, the preservation of the prosperity of the Euro-Asian space, its general humane composition.
Also on this day, the delegation met with the President of the Institute of Masses, Dr. Fred Movenzadem, who noted that the institute will take an active part in the holding of this exhibition in Astana.
socially vulnerable groups have priority in this regard.
development of infrastructure and housing and communal services, rural entrepreneurship.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministries of Energy, Education and Science of Kazakhstan, Astana Expo-2017 and members of Parliament, heads of large industries, well-known scientists and engineering specialists.
r.akhmetov informed representatives of the mission about 5 institutional reforms, the plan of the nation, the economic direction "nұrly zhol."
we visited a number of polling stations and made sure that the elections were organized very well.
vessel displacement is about 250 tons, length is about 42 meters, maximum speed reaches 25-30 knots, cruising range is about 1200 miles.
Modernization of prison infrastructure within the framework of public-private partnership.
before the war he served as an accountant.
Here, along with the modern appearance of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the army and types of weapons will be presented during the Great Patriotic War.
materials are accepted in the state and Russian languages.
in the end, key indicators of youth development at the international level will be adopted, "he said.
The staff of the Ostrov service and procurement center of the Kyzylorda region expressed gratitude for the attention to the development of the region and the preservation of the small island, noting that they support the initiative to hold presidential elections.
To solve the problems of dilapidated heat, water and sanitation systems, centralized studies will be carried out, investment justifications will be created, criteria for the selection and implementation of projects in the regions will be developed, "said K. Nskenbayev.
military units were checked for military duty, combat training, a metric technical base and operational training.
the choice of our customers and trust in us is a vivid proof of our words, "said the chairman of the board of Kazakhtelecom JSC.
when skydiving in the winter, paratroopers use special-purpose parachute systems of the 4th d-6 series and Golden Eagle-2.
on the ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Belarus on readmission and the executive protocol on the procedure for the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on readmission; " ratification of the treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the transfer of convicted persons ";" ratification of the extradition treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary "; on the ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and the Vietnamese Socialist Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; " on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of gambling "(first reading).
As a result, the network of private kindergartens increased by 346 units and amounted to 1124 units.
The memorial complex in 2017 will be attended by guests of the international exhibition expo-2017.
It is necessary to provide for the transition to public service only through the share of the merintocracy, "said the head of state.
According to R. Millori, they managed to visit a number of polling stations, where observers noticed a desire to determine the future of Kazakhstan and the good mood of the population.
Besides, as noted in akimat, in execution of the order of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev in the message to the people "Nr zhol - a way to the future" in Mangystau Region a number of transport and logistic projects is implemented.
we are fully confident in our abilities and have the support of world financial institutions, as well as about 100 transnational companies, "the head of state said.
Recall that the conference is attended by more than 100 representatives of international organizations and government agencies, IT companies.
today we have achieved a number of indicators in the field of science. nowadays we have also achieved results in the sphere of science .
This year, yurts marked with the Kazakh sign will meet their guests in Karaganda, Zhezkazgan, Satpayev, Balkhash cities.	this year , the yurts with symbol of kazakhmys will receive guests in karaganda , zhezkazgan , satpayev and balkhash cities .	0,91
summing up the results of the seminar. Today we discussed in detail the actions of the election commissions on voting day and on voting day.
In the framework of the event, which was held in Kazakhstan, representatives of rural and rural agriculture presented their products to residents.
At the briefing, the head of the Center for the Study of Inter-Ethnic and Interfaith Relations of the Central Asian Region of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aigul Saduakasova, professor of Gumilev University, professor of Kokshetau State University named after S. Ualikhanova olga anishchenko.
its main goal is to increase the authority of Kazakhstan in the international ranking of information content of the quality of education and to equip educational technologies, educational institutions of Kazakhstan with equipment of leading domestic and international manufacturers.
Training is carried out throughout the country. readiness is observed throughout the country .
decrease of trade turnover has its own reasons. drop of the turnover has its objective reasons .
the demand of the domestic market for poultry meat is about 250-300 thousand tons per year.
To this end, the Government of Kazakhstan is gradually implementing a plan of measures to improve the quality of life of the population for 2012-2018.
in the future, the cargo was sent to Amsterdam from Almaty International Airport with a klm flight.
Recall that Taikazan was removed from Turkestan and sent to all regions of the country.
The Secretary of State noted that daily and persistent creative work makes culture and the arts a core resource of economic growth, innovation and human development.
we can achieve any tasks and high goals together with the leader of the nation, "the letter says.
Within the framework of the state visit of the President of the Turkish Republic R. Erdogan, the heads of state of the two countries plan to visit the new mosque in Turkestan, located next to the akhmet yassaui complex, as well as the international Kazakh-Turkish university.
All built rental apartments are provided to the waiting list of local executive bodies. all the rental housing waiting will be commissioned by local executive bodies .
Kazakhstan's interest in developing cooperation between the island state and Central Asian countries.
Each of us contributes to the development and prosperity of our country, and every day we should be proud of this, "said Andrei Savchuk, a specialist in the information and analytical sector of the Karaganda center for working with young people.
Currently, in addition to South Korea, more than 400 military personnel from Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Turkey, China, Great Britain, Germany and India are taking part in the vote.
memory of the heroes who gave their lives for the victory to military sailors. the memory of the heroes who gave their all to win is sacred for us , sailors .
the Lithuanian business delegation is represented by companies in the field of transport, logistics, education, food, energy industry, as well as the confederation of Lithuanian manufacturers and entrepreneurs.
Especially the new law made it possible to clearly indicate the activities of sectoral and regional associations, it is obvious that the unification of many small trade union organizations into large associations will accelerate the modernization process.
In the future, it is planned to expand the work of the enterprise and create additional jobs, "the report said.
the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs is very relevant in modern society and is one of the priority areas of prosecutor's supervision in the capital.
In the newly opened kindergarten, all conditions have been created for children to receive a proper education.
as part of the 20th anniversary of kha, the kha festival, the My Kazakhstan train, is taking place.
this is a service for those who do not have free hands.
Also, one of the objectives of the memorandum will be to create a "social corner" in the supermarket "quality market" for the sale of products from the stabilization fund, where the trade premium does not exceed 10%.
Optimal event - today Kazakhstan unites all of us.	now we are waiting for the decision of the pope , presidents , prime ministers ,  - a.bashmakov said .
Recall that the international policy of Kazakhstan is aimed at preserving international guarantees and independence.
in the park of one capital, many industrial projects have been implemented, which we can proudly say, "said T. Yakovleva at a briefing in the CCS.
"Deputy Commander of the Regional Command" Vostok "Colonel Mukataev.
we must create all the necessary conditions for the realization of each citizen of his constitutional suffrage and the conduct of a fair and transparent election campaign in accordance with the requirements of the electoral legislation and universally recognized international principles, "said M. Sarsembayev.
The next object of the appeal of the head of the region was the city reservoir, the construction of which is carried out under the state program "White Stream" in order to provide residents of the city with high-quality drinking water.
According to the Akmola Media Center, all families affected by the flood were provided with housing.
the second part presents certain things of war heroes, their letters and medals, awards, orders of a warrior.
According to statistics, according to the results of the third season, the unemployment rate in the region amounted to 5.0%, youth unemployment - 4.1%.
9 million 547 thousand 864 of 9 million 900 thousand 920 registered voters, or 95.21%, took part in the vote. 95.21 % of population of kazakhstan participated in elections .
the first reading will present legislative innovations on restricting state participation in entrepreneurial activities.
First of all, we will celebrate the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate - the most important date of our national history and culture, "he said.
legal entities are mainly registered in the field of wholesale and retail trade, car and motorcycle repair, agriculture, fisheries, construction, industry.
my father was a very courageous man. my father was a very brave man .
student organizations abroad form an important part of the implementation of state programs and strategies.
In addition, most often violations are the reason for incomplete knowledge of anti-corruption legislation, "said Konstantin Petrov.
It should be noted that in the presidential elections, the Kazakh Institute of Democracy held a public exit poll.
On these holidays, we honor all veterans and home front workers fighting for the freedom and independence of our homeland, as well as the staff of the committee who contribute to strengthening the security of our country. during these holidays we pay tribute to all veterans and home front workers , who defended the freedom and independence of the motherland , as well as all the staff of the committee of emergency situations who with their dedication and selfless labor contribute to strengthening of the security of our country .
The work of the Kazakh-Tajik intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation was especially noted, the next meeting of which was held on Monday, March 19-20.
the cellular market is discussed very often. the most frequently we discussed cellular market .
the depth of the gas place is 300-400 meters.
it will increase Kazakhstan's global competitiveness rating. "
According to the regional director of the European Bureau of the World Health Organization, the opening of the first major UN office in Almaty is especially important not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the region as a whole.
To develop the Ayr project, a working group of interested persons was created within state and non-governmental organizations, "the judge said.
in middle-income countries, based on world practice, services do most of the job. based on the international practice , the employment 's growth in the middle-income countries is mainly due to the service sector .
a large-scale middle class should become the core of the formation of national unity, a system of national values ​ ​ - an eternal country. "
Since the beginning of this year, the population of the region has increased by 1356 people, including by natural means - by 687 people, by migration - by 669 people.
A representative of the armed forces of Tajikistan will lead the international forces.
at the same time, the senator noted that every citizen of Kazakhstan freely expresses his position.
also discussed the preparation of the upcoming state visit of the President of the Republic of Turkey R.
Former Croatian President I. Jiosovich noted that the Kazakh experience of planning the further development of the country, forecasting world and regional trends will be valuable for Croatian government agencies.
The Minister emphasized that integration with the Eurasian economy is a strategic direction of Kazakhstan.
According to the Minister, there are no companies engaged in agriculture in the membership of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of this year, more than 93 billion kvts of electricity have been generated, which is 2.1% more than last year.
according to information, the issues of organizing public order, fencing the settlement and liberating the area will be worked out.
he is still cheerful and purposeful.
Despite the influence of foreign policy and economic risks, the state is firmly on its feet and remains stable.
The company is the largest and modern for the production of disinfectants in central Asia, as well as one of the largest factories in the CIS.
The head of the Federal Financial Monitoring Service, Yuri Chikhanchin, shared his experience, priority areas and goals of the future industry supervised by him, and also discussed issues of international cooperation, the report said.
The congress was a real manifestation of overcoming contradictions between religions and cultures only through cooperation and mutual trust, "said Kishanov.
According to the representative of the company, through the space system, ore will be protected in mining operations for the rational use and extraction of mineral resources, weather conditions of urban agglomeration have been changed, and there are also territorial production complexes.
In addition, at the exhibition you can see 96 boards collected from postage stamps dedicated to political events, such as the 2010 Ekyu Summit in the capital, the creation of international organizations uku and shu.
The mining and gold enterprise is one of the main projects implemented in the industrial park of the capital as part of the first five-year plan of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
general coordination of the work of the group, First Deputy Minister R. Zhoshybaev.
An important event of today's meeting will be the signed agreement on a free trade zone with the socialist republic. an important event of today 's meeting is the signing of the agreement on free trade zone with the socialist republic of vietnam .
According to the military, such events will increase the combat skills of officers, develop skills and increase the level of professional training.
We build roads, electric networks, we develop the agricultural sector, education, health care.
Therefore, our buyers consume domestic products, "said the head of the entrepreneurship department.
As noted in the conclusion of the relevant committee, these amendments are necessary for the approval of new quotas of member states of the international monetary fund, including for increasing the quota for the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The event began with a solemn ceremony of laying flowers at the Eternal Flame memorial complex with WWII veterans.
we need to know them.
In addition, according to the president, one of the systemic problems of the 21st century is the growth of the shortage of jobs with an increase in the population.
one of the most important sectors of the economy is agriculture, especially pumpkin, fish, vanilla, plant roots.
future specialists are trained in various specialties of the air force, air defense and communications forces, such as aircraft and engines, aircraft weapons, electronic equipment, radar operator, racket, manual escort operators and electric diesel engineer.
with the arrival of commanders in military units, they prepare the younger generation for taking a military oath.
conducting diagnostic studies using a nuclear plant repeatedly improves the quality of treatment for the disease, "said Mr. Yskulova.
The next direction of the state program is the introduction of a system of preliminary detection of diseases, ensuring the provision of unified medical care. the next direction of the state program is the introduction of the system of disease management , which provides prevention , early detection and treatment of diseases as a single process of care .
these days, the whole country awards all Kazakhstanis recognized as outstanding, honored by the people in the development of society and strengthening the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
A number of famous figures of cinematic art, such as A.Ashimov, N.Yutumbayev, S.Yelubay, Nashrymbets and R. Abdirashov, expressed gratitude for the selfless work of Nursultan Nazarbayev for the benefit of our Motherland, noting that they support the holding of presidential elections with great enthusiasm and sincerity.
Fast is successfully used in educational institutions in Austria, Australia, Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, Russia, etc.
May the spirit of independence, unity, and harmony give us strength and confidence! "The head of state said.
He stressed the importance of the law "on official development assistance" adopted in our country in order to legally regulate relations with Kazakhstan.
According to him, enterprises know more what kind of specialist they need.
In addition, with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Kha Scientific and Expert Council is implementing the project "children's literature - the basis for the development of a spiritual and moral personality in political Kazakh society."
the legislation regulates the participants and the scope of the fuel and lubricants, expands its contract models, and the structure of the contract will also be clarified, "said the first deputy governor.
according to the results of the meeting, an agreement was reached on establishing systemic ties in the areas of "gmm - congress of leaders of world and traditional religions" and "gmm - assembly of the people of Kazakhstan," including participation in cooperation and strengthening of interstate relations.
In the reporting year, 115.0 million tenge was allocated for the construction of the memorial complex of Abulkhair Khan in the Aytekebi region, then 29.2 million tenge was allocated for the reconstruction and improvement of the memorial complex.
the measures taken will prevent emergencies and monitor the activities of water utilities, the report said.
The organization of the Expo-2017 exhibition in Astana is a huge measure aimed at finding the best solutions for criticism of neigzi of the 21st century.
He noted that all state programs are aimed at the sustainable development of the industry, they are under the effective control of the government.
Abdikalikova noted that all events should be aimed at strengthening the main idea of ​ ​ "my country is an eternal country," peace, social harmony and unity of the people, "the statement said.
Our candidacy from the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan was nominated at the plenary session today. today our candidacies have been presented at the plenary session of the senate of the parliament of kazakhstan .
The Vice Minister also noted that agricultural production in Pavlodar, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Kostanay regions has been reduced.
by developing this genre, we make an invaluable contribution to the education of the younger generation. "
By subtracting the terms of wage increase to employees of budget organizations of the region for 2016, 230 million tenge was saved. " sharips.
these competitions are regional and are held on the basis of each regional command.
According to him, under a special program implemented on the railway, production and social facilities and new jobs are opened.
The head of state also drew attention to the development of anti-crisis measures in the development of SMEs.
It should be noted that the number of banks participating in the program has doubled compared to last year - from 4 to 8.
The purpose of our participation is to find partners for the implementation of a joint project in the field of processing within the framework of state programs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the purpose of our participation is to find the partners in the processing industry , in the framework of the state programs of kazakhstan .
operational patenting of some forms is also introduced to optimize the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the member states of the organization of economic cooperation in the field of patenting, "the committee on constitutional legislation, the judicial system and legal bodies said.
I think that in the first half of the year the negotiations will be completed, "he said.
According to the head of the economy, Viktor Kollar, with the support of the Development Fund, it is planned to attract investment and expand the economy in the future.
Therefore, it is necessary to support global efforts aimed at ensuring stability for our bright future, "said E. Dyrysov.
briefing with the participation of Vice Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan takyr balykbaev, Executive Secretary of the youth wing of the party "Nұr Otan" Nurldykov, representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan auez Karabalayeva.
The project is a union of representatives of various ethnic groups and peoples in the regions of our country, with the help of which you can communicate and communicate with each other.
after independence, the idea was born in the country to open an institution such as the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, authored by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev. the idea of establishing the assembly of people of kazakhstan has started up after the kazakhstan 's independence and the author of that idea is president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .
According to the chairman of the board of Kazpost, by the end of this year the number of these installations will be brought to 100.
Senators have also ratified the agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan on readmission of persons and the executive protocol on the procedure for the implementation of this Agreement.
The main purpose of the training camp is to improve the methodological and practical skills of commanders, training in the education of personnel and ideological work, as well as improving professional training and practical skills.
all measures for its organization, measures of moral, technical and financial support have been implemented by state election bodies.
According to the chairman of the committee, the main theme of this forum was chosen "a platform for leaders of religions and politicians based on peace and development."
It is worth noting that work on attracting private investment will continue. work will continue to attract private investment to the area .
The conference will be attended by the director of the Russian music channel Muz-tv.
Much preparatory work is under way to sign the Free Trade Area Act. now we work on the preparation of agreements on free trade zone .
To date, two major space projects are being implemented on the basis of the agreement: the creation of a space system for remote sensing of the Earth of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the creation of an assembly and testing complex of spacecraft in Astana.
the more domestic producers, the more the country will be independent of imported goods, "Shotanov said.
the document is aimed at establishing unauthorized passage of vehicles for the transportation of goods between Kazakhstan and Belarus, as well as transit through their territory, "the report said.
for the training of cadets in specialties in military units 78639 and 44841 there is a good educational and material base, specialized classes, models of units and assemblies of weapons, equipment.
Also, according to A. Kukova, most of the cases considered by juvenile courts are about deprivation of parental rights.
we must all care for our home, for our city. we all need to promote a culture of respect for the native home town .
The participants also discussed issues of social and humanitarian development of the country in terms of implementing the obligations of the head of state, voiced in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the new economic policy "Nұr the way to the future."
The size of the presidential candidate's election fund should not exceed 57 million tenge.
skydiving is carried out from military transport of transport aircraft, such as an-12, an-2, s-295 and a Mi-17 helicopter.
At the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan party, the Secretary of State drew special attention to the words of the head of state about the need to maximize the potential of the holders of the Bolashak scholarship and actively attract them to the public service.
I. Adyrbekov noted that at present bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Slovakia are characterized by active political dialogue at the highest level and a legal framework has been created and its further improvement.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the purpose of the event is to introduce innovative methods of treatment for children with injuries, motor apparatus, spinal diseases and burns of varying severity.
The head of state stressed the importance of strengthening control over the effective and rational use of the funds of the national budget and the national fund, as well as strengthening financial discipline during the implementation of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
The award ceremony was attended by students of secondary and higher educational institutions of Almaty, faculty and cadets of the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications.
In the next few years, we plan to attract large investments in infrastructure, in its various types. in the next few years we plan to attract huge investments in infrastructure : in the field of road construction , energy and transport , municipal infrastructure on the basis of public private partnership .
sports such as triking, street workout, skateboarding, streetball, football freestyle will be presented in the sports palace.
our task is to bring it to the buyer.
Kazakhstan's partnership with countries of the near and near east with close historical and spiritual ties will also develop within the framework of bilateral and regional organizations.
It is noted that taking into account the decrease in oil prices during meetings in the regions, entrepreneurs raised additional issues that the government should quickly resolve.
highly specialized cardiac surgery, orthopedics, urology, pediatric surgery.
at the same time, the director of the Presidential Fund for the Development of the State Language, Azshaueev, also cast his votes to the family.
The possibility of holding a regular meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS in October this year in the capital was also considered.
Let our country flourish, and our independence will be eternal. let our independent country prosper , and friendship will be everlasting .
for its effective operation, sugar beets in the amount of one hundred thousand tons are required.
During the republican social action, employees of the Department of TD and Water Rescue Services of Almaty region congratulated veteran of the Great Patriotic War Samen Bazarbayev and his wife, a veteran of the rear of Aitzhamal Bazarbayev.
this year, Major Barilchenko will turn 99 years old.
They believe that the elections of the head of state were held openly, freely and democratically, "said the Secretary General of the Shu Dmitry Mesentsev.
he also drew attention to the insufficient work on introducing innovations, new technologies, mjs principles, attracting foreign investment in research, creating intelligent clusters and poor communication with regions.
we hope that our cooperation will improve the labor market and will not increase social tension in labor collectives, "the Deputy Prime Minister emphasized.
this is an unprecedented achievement, "said Valery Pak, head of the youth wing of Kha.
As part of the event, the presentation of the public association "Impossible and Possible" took place.
According to the Governor of the region, the image campaign "Made in Kazakhstan" supports local producers.
Thus, according to the creators of the site, it is planned to devote the May month to the 70th anniversary of the victory, and June to the 74th anniversary of its foundation.
the bill is aimed at ensuring the legal basis for the application of state minimum social standards and guarantees, the committee on social and cultural development said in a statement.
and. about the main aspects of interaction between the state and business.
It is noted that the report received a positive assessment by the head of state, international and national experts and was published in a separate edition in Kazakh, Russian and English with technical assistance from the representative office of the international migration organization in Kazakhstan.
In the draft amendments to the Agreement on the Customs Code of the EAO, state authorities supported the most important amendments for business.
S-295 crews took part in all exercises held in Kazakhstan and far abroad.
According to the judge of the control judicial board, an important step in ensuring the rights of children in Kazakhstan was the decree of the President of Kazakhstan on overcoming the practice of creating specialized interdistrict courts for minors in the cities of Almaty and the capital.
secondly, according to the head of state, natural factors of climate change and pandemics.
immigrants from Ukraine came to virgin lands, to the country's industrial enterprises.
Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development Svetlana Zhakupova noted that this memorandum will increase the availability of public services for residents of remote settlements.
The early elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan are needed by the people, and if we hold early elections, we look confidently into the future and continue to develop. the country needs early elections of the president of the republic of kazakhstan .
Also, during the working trip, the Governor of the region got acquainted with the project for the construction of a new living space and a house-building plant.
Currently, we are increasing the amount of funds allocated for development work, we are creating conditions for scientists to provide concrete results of scientific work together with business.
numerous meetings of the Kazakh delegation continued in the most famous Finnish city "smart city" oulu - a relative city of the capital.
recently, repairs were completed here. the repair has been completed recently .
A healthy Kazakh train met with residents of 20 stations in remote districts of Karaganda region.
As noted, this is an indicator of interest in strengthening bilateral relations between the two states, a sign of friendship, partnership and mutual trust.
The registration of observers will be completed on April 20, 2015.
Ekaterina Semenova in wartime was in Orenburg.
At the meeting, it was noted that both countries agree on international issues, especially peace and security.
According to the deputy, as part of the industrialization program, 3 projects worth 770 trillion tenge were launched, 75 thousand new jobs were developed.
734.4 thousand children, which is 60.6 thousand more places than in 2013.
The use of synthetic networks is prohibited by national law.
only we connect our real well-being and future with you, "the letter says.
according to the results of the linguistic commission, Nursultan Nazarbayev is recognized as fluent in the state language.
he became the parliament of the commonwealth of peoples, "said Nadirov.
According to the press service of the Federation Council, on the Russian side the council is held by the Deputy Chairman of the Federation Council, Co-Chair on the Russian side Ilyas Umakhanov, on the Kazakh side - Deputy Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the Kazakh side - Co-Chair.
the largest share are manufacturing, transport and equipment, repair of cars and motorcycles.
R. As Oshakbayev noted, the main thing for business is stability, unity, consent and this is only in the hands of our leader.
2.2 million hectares were allocated for oilseeds, feed crops are planned to be sown for 3.7 million hectares, that is, 349 thousand hectares, "said S. Omarov.
Scandals with a veteran of World War II, Claudia Vasilyevna raised 4 son and today they are interested in grandchildren and masters.
The three-day forum, which brought together the heads of cities of the participating countries of the Asia-European Forum, made it possible to exchange experience on topical issues of the work of megacities.
Within two days, the deputy akim of the city, the chief of staff, the adviser of the akim and the heads of the city state institutions will travel to their place of residence and present medals to war veterans.
According to him, the state of Kazakh-Lithuanian cooperation is small.
in the Akmola region, residents of the village of Shnet and Aganas of the Tselinograd region are under control. akmola region organized evacuation of villagers of shnet and aganas of tselinograd district .
Thus, according to the data distributed by the Governor's Office, the problem of emergency schools will be solved.
According to S. Kulagin, one of the priority areas is the development of agricultural processing.
This is the first time in our country, "added the deputy chairman of the agency.
As reported at the meeting, in the first reading it is proposed to discuss the bill on evaluation activities with accompanying amendments.
for us, this should not be a shame to achieve, but the basis for more effective work, "concluded Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the purpose of the event is to increase the vigilance of doctors of primary health care organizations (msaka) to detect tuberculosis early; creating conditions for a healthy lifestyle and timely passage of preventive checks; raising public awareness of preventive measures such as primary symptoms of tuberculosis, effectiveness of timely treatment, rejection of tobacco, drugs, alcoholic beverages, proper nutrition and physical activity.
The President of Kazakhstan recalled the importance of five people's reforms announced at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party.
in his opinion, the simplification of the visa regime for Thailand will allow Kazakhstan to increase the flow of Thai tourists.
The head of the metropolis noted that the new facility improves the quality of drinking water, provides uninterrupted water supply to the southern part of the city, reduces electricity and water consumption.
Representatives of Austria showed great interest in EXPO-2017.
Zhakab expressed satisfaction with the development of healthcare in our country and the improvement of basic indicators, the implementation of the state program "healthy Kazakhstan," as well as work to reduce child mortality.
Also, as the observer emphasized, in Kazakhstan the majority of the population votes in the morning and en masse.
the Minister also set specific tasks for further foreign policy support of important state programs, including, first of all, the program "Nұr zhol - way to the future."
organizing committee for organizing and celebrating the anniversary, "the statement said.
all participants in the war are exempt from utility bills, and issues of providing coal and fuel have also been resolved.
introduction of new technologies will allow to optimize costs and time in judicial proceedings. the introduction of the new technologies allows optimizing the time and costs of the proceedings .
we assumed that such challenges were possible.	we predicted such risks .	0,92
The work of the subway will, firstly, save the time of residents.	the underground , firstly , saves time of residents .	0,92
The Secretary of State also took part in a solemn event organized by the International Turkic Academy together with the Permanent Missions of Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkey and Turkmenistan to UNESCO in honor of the 200th anniversary of the first edition of the Korkut Ata book, as well as the 70th anniversary of UNESCO.	in addition , the secretary of state took part in the celebrations to mark the 70th anniversary of unesco and the 200th anniversary of the publication of the first book of korkyt ata , organized by the international turkic academy in conjunction with the permanent mission of kazakhstan , azerbaijan , turkey and turkmenistan to unesco .	0,92
Veterans invited to the event wished everyone.	invited veterans addressed the audience with the words of edification .	0,92
It is noted that the project is designed until June 30, 2017.	it should be noted the projects is for june 2017 .	0,92
according to the idea of ​ ​ the curator of the museum, Erart Vladimir Nazansky, the exhibition exposition is conditionally divided into the following sections: identification, "expressionism," "freshness," "impeccable painting."
All citizens should enjoy the same rights, feel the same responsibility and have the same access to various minds, "said the leader of the nation.
The plant worth 8.2 billion tenge is equipped with modern technologies.
The meeting also considered the implementation of the national plan aimed at strengthening family relations, moral and ethical values ​ ​ in Kazakhstan for 2015-2020, which was prepared and adopted on behalf of the head of state.
We expect good results next year, "said the Governor of the region.
more than 160 calls have been worked out by specialists, "the agency said.
this track is equipped with all necessary equipment, preparation for the cross-country, mountain bike and other classes are allowed.
archimedes begejanovich muhambet - akim of Aktobe region;
the publication was prepared as part of interviews with state and political figures, athletes and members of the kha, members of the Kazakh diaspora.
this is evidenced by absolute and comparable indicators compared to last year, "the judge said.
The main goals of the event are the popularization of the international exhibition "Astana Expo-2017," which will be held in 2 years, the promotion of innovations in the field of "green" technologies, the popularization of the potential of the region in the field of "green economy," the identification of projects for participation in the expo-2017.
this year is marked by the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
During this time, a number of large-scale projects were implemented.
In addition, on the eve of the Day of Chemists, deputies of the district, city and regional maslikhats m.sarsenov. Isaev and Dr. Prekeshov received an honorary certificate of the Senate of Parliament on behalf of the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
during the experiment, we open financial and psychological support to help a woman not get into the orphans' house, "he said.
I am sure that the congress will contribute to the adoption of the right directions and decisions on the further development and improvement of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan, "concluded B. Sagintayev.
It is worth noting that today the opening of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan took place in the capital with the participation of the Secretary of State of the Gulshara Abdykalikova.
opening the ceremony, Mr. Abdykalikova congratulated those present and noted that this is an assessment of their significant contribution to the development of domestic culture, "the press service of Akorda said.
The Financial Academy has developed a social network, it is a specialized professional platform online. specialized social network will give more benefits .
D.Kaletaev also spoke about other initiatives for veterans of the Second World War.
a group of experts working as long-term observers also noted this in their conclusions, "he added.
In this regard, during the meeting, issues of organizing the opening of the center were discussed.
Joint transport initiatives are a powerful foundation for cooperation.
at the talks with Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, a wide range of issues of development and deepening of trade and economic partnership was considered, including the implementation of specific projects in priority sectors of the economy.
As part of the implementation of the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" this year, 500 million tenge was allocated from the city budget for lending to small and medium-sized businesses, and 1 billion tenge from the Development Enterprise Development Fund.
we see that initiative individuals, for example, unite in groups or independently raise funds for the treatment of seriously ill children and provide assistance to charitable foundations. we can see that social networks gather groups and they independently collect money , for example , for the treatment of children , help charities .
Implementation of the program "Nrla zhol" will allow to reach a number of important results.
dear Kazakhstanis and I received many letters from you, labor collectives, representatives of universities and public associations on the nomination of their candidacy for the elections. dear kazakhstanis , within a few days , i have received many letters and applications of citizens , labor groups , universities , public associations to support early presidential elections .
the main purpose of this institution is the acceptance, placement, drying, storage and laying of culture on transport or railway transport.
and Bokova expressed confidence that close cooperation between Kazakhstan and UNESCO will continue, and will make every effort to fulfill common goals and goals.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the solemn events dedicated to the victory in the Great Patriotic War will give impetus to the development of Kazakhstani patriotism.
cooperation between our countries on the Caspian Sea has also been established, and this issue should be resolved, "the head of state said.
The law aims at improving energy efficiency mechanisms and the application of energy efficiency technologies in the sector of production and consumption of energy resources.
This year, the winners will be selected in the nominations "best goods of production purpose," "best enterprise of production direction," "best enterprise for the production of products for the population," "best enterprise for the provision of services," the National Chamber said in a statement.
they are approved by second-tier banks.
n.nigmatulin summed up the results of the meeting, gave specific instructions to eliminate the identified shortcomings in the work of responsible secretaries and strictly execute the acts and instructions of the head of state.
It should be noted that the appearance of representatives of the Islamic state on the territory of Afghanistan has changed qualitatively, "said E. idrissov.
Hundreds of teenagers and teenagers skillfully performed dances of Kazakh, Uzbek, Turkmen, Russian nationalities.
It is worth noting that the first four tractor diamonds, aksay (zko), aktobe and albases exhibited before the New Year were sold.
In 2014, 118 complaints were received during the personal reception of the Prosecutor General.
The main task of the headquarters is comprehensive support for the election campaign of presidential candidate Nursultan Nazarbayev, popularization of the candidate's election program among the population.
The main share of investments in fixed assets is the construction and overhaul of buildings and structures - 57.7%.
Unfortunately, this area is now regulated only by a few legal norms: article 53 of the Constitution, article 32 of the Law on Defense and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Law on Military Service and the Status of Military Personnel.
Within the framework of 4 past forums, agreements were concluded on the implementation of important projects for a glass plant, a solar power plant, the construction of the Shalkia metallurgical field and others.
when continuing your activities in this post, we want to express a sincere desire to expand our cooperation for the common good of our peoples, "the telegram says.
According to the institute, among the world expert centers in the field of energy and raw materials policy, thirty are first shown.
in general, the Internet portal is full of useful information, that is, there are audio, video materials, interactive exercises, survey materials and much more.
according to the results of the expert group, 111 of 388 permits were refused (excluding the types of international contracts and permits issued depending on the degree of danger of regulated activities), 20 comments were transferred to the order, 58 were reduced.
their description, place and rules of participation in tenders can be found on the website of the city department of architecture and urban planning, "the akim said.
Thanks to Kazakhstan's transition to a new stage of socio-economic achievements and development, the state is working on issues of supporting development, is considering the possibility of increasing assistance to countries in need, "he said.
The media distributed publications about the world of Kazakhstan to the Spaniards.
Almaty regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan" and the regional department of culture.
the spirit of our independence is the only value that unites our compatriot. our spirit of independence unites all and makes stronger .
investors brought to Kazakhstan the first technologies and methods of training specialists, "said A. Issekeshev.
Until July 1, the land code of the Republic of Kazakhstan will include rules for the provision of land for the construction of residential buildings. until 1 july 2015 the land code of kazakhstan will be amended by the provisions on the prohibition of the land grant for the construction of residential buildings without infrastructure and communications .
legally, the time had come to deal with the problem by law. it is time to solve this problem .
By the way, currently the air defense forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan have such powerful combat aircraft as su-25, su-27, mig-23, mig-27, mig-29, mig-31.
We are clearly aware that, thanks to your political courage, at a difficult time, every stage of the development of independent Kazakhstan has become years of achievement, strengthening the unity and stability of our multinational homeland.
According to the deputy, 20 regional electric grid companies and 150 small sales companies selling 0.4-220 sq.m. are engaged in electricity distribution in Kazakhstan.
at the second stage, they develop business projects, consider the mechanisms for their implementation and analyze the market, promote professions through social networks.
As it was reported, during the meeting issues of Kazakh-Mongolian cooperation and topical international problems were discussed.
As part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, from May 3 to 9, 2015, the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of Akimat of Akmola region, together with the akimats of districts and cities on the roads of the region, holds the relay race of stellar athletics "Memory of the country-2015."
Currently, Nursultan Nazarbayev has approved the Cabinet of Ministers and a number of akims.
Kazakhstan became a powerful military camp in which the best units and formations of the Red Army were formed.
The forum will be attended by more than 200 representatives of government bodies, development institutions and business associations of Kazakhstan and Lithuania.
It should be noted that 820 children were born in Kazakhstan as of December 31, 2013.
such devices will be located on the IL River, "the report said.
the parties exchanged views on the economic situation of Kazakhstan and Romania and the Central Asian and Eastern European regions as a whole.
a holiday that is held annually as part of the Delphic Games. "
we will see a joint festive program of two theater groups that will work in the same shanyrak, "said D. Akhmetov.
Including the industrial construction plant Kis-whitewash LLP, opened in December 2014 at Morport Aktau JSC.
During the conversation, plant employees spoke about their successes, supporting the programs implemented in the country.
In addition, according to the statement, in 2014, 139 people received loans totaling 375.6 million tenge to open their professions and expand existing enterprises.
at an expanded government meeting, the head of state proposed a number of anti-crisis measures. during the enlarged meeting of the kazakh government on february 11 , the head of sate proposed a number of anti-crisis measures .
In 2015, 164.1 thousand hectares of crops were sown in the region.
recreational sports focused on young people's healthy lifestyles, health promotion and initiatives.
In addition, the head of the region paid special attention to the park "ancient taraz," which in the future will become a tourist brand.
Bilateral relations open up great opportunities for both the eurozone member countries and Mongolia itself, "said Viktor Khristenko.
raising children, well-being at home.
To date, a project to update the state standard for primary education has been fully agreed.	the project of state standard of primary education 's updating is coordinated .	0,92
electoral campaigning is an activity aimed at encouraging voters to participate in voting for or against a certain candidate, a political party (article 27, paragraph 1, of the constitutional law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," hereinafter - the constitutional law).
The bill will also add to the law "On export control" as part of export control over conventional weapons and military equipment necessary for the national contingent of the Republic of Kazakhstan in peacekeeping operations.
The event was attended by representatives of interested Italian organizations, large Italian companies and business communities, experts and analysts, as well as representatives of Italian parks.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the phased development of industry in the region, noted that large enterprises will provide small and medium-sized businesses with orders.
therefore, of course, strengthening economic ties with this country will strengthen peace and security in the region. "
we observe the active participation of people in the voting, everyone is trying to cast their vote for the future of Kazakhstan. we see the activity participation of people , each tends to vote for the future of their country .
I am sure that Kazakhstan, under your leadership, will successfully continue its initiatives aimed at improving the well-being of the people. i am confident that under your leadership kazakhstan will successfully continue its initiatives aimed at improving the welfare of the people .
this is primarily the key to high-quality environmentally friendly products, "said O. Perepechin.
To participate in the competition, you must submit an application by July 1, 2015.
It is approved and put into effect on July 1, 2015.
According to the ministry, the main topics of the meeting were onomastics, visual information, village development, support for print newspapers, and jubilee celebrations.
this visit made it possible to identify priority areas of cooperation with the organizations of the steam system in Vienna.
B. Saparbayev also touched upon the topic of hunting development.
At the same time, special attention will be paid to the completion of the construction of medical institutions, schools and kindergartens.
This process is still working, the results of the working group will be summed up on specific indicators of work, "he said.
the state will provide comprehensive support, but you should also be able to produce high-quality products and withstand competition, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
Hungary and Kazakhstan have established an effective mechanism to develop partnerships.
among the museum exhibits are genuine documents, ethnographic and archival materials describing the Abai era, its social activities, rare books of oriental classics, works of Western philosophers, memoirs of contemporaries of the poet.
When the horizon of this goal begins, we must know how and how we will achieve it, "said the specialist hr.
the main objectives of the association are to participate in the improvement of industry and the regulatory and technical base, the formation of an affordable housing market and an increase in the pace of housing construction; creation of a domestic financial system in the field of construction, mortgage lending, development of insurance activities; increasing the authority of scientists and construction specialists, uniting organizations working in the field of construction; assistance in research and development in the implementation of actual science and technology; improvement of the system of training of specialists of higher schools, professional schools, educational buildings of specialists involved in the construction sector; solving employment problems, improving working conditions and safety, reducing wage inequality in the construction industry.
(Greenhouse Technologies of Kazakhstan LLP).
At the meeting, projects related to the railway were considered.
The sides noted the need to strengthen the role of parliamentary diplomacy in the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary, exchanging parliamentary visits.
The fifth religious summit will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year and will be devoted to a dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for the sake of peace, development and security.
In general, the measures taken will allow potential domestic and external consumers to obtain domestic engineering products in favorable financial conditions, he concluded.
during this period, significant work was done to achieve daily and combat training activities of subordinate associations, military branches, formations and units.	during this period the substantial work on the management of daily and combat training activities of subordinate organizations , arms , formations and units was done .	0,92
I think that this position will lead to a new synergy aimed at a balanced solution to the problem, "said the director of transformations of samruk-kazyna.
In addition, the head of the region presented 14 veterans with state awards issued by presidential decree.
This is the work of the 200,000th team of the green country.
The head of the region, having approved the projects of architects, recalled that in May the 70th anniversary of the great victory will take place, and said that the improvement of the central square should be fully completed by September.
As noted in the report, the jacquia received high authority under the chairman of the collective farm, the director of the state farm, work in party and Soviet bodies.
at the party congress with more than 10 quick stories in the political arena, more than 100 delegates from different regions of the country took part.
our goal was to make the project not only beautiful, but also simple and accessible.
young people, veterans, leading athletes of the region and sports take part in the relay.
According to the results of last year Almaty, West Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions are leading.
the natural and cultural heritage is today the basic values ​ ​ of modern civilization. the natural and cultural heritage is becoming the basic value of modern civilization .
it is also planned to discuss the main principles and mechanisms for the successful development of the regions of the country, as well as to develop proposals for the further dynamic development of independent Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the policy of preserving interethnic and interfaith peace and harmony in Kazakhstan, great attention is paid to the development of the German community, its rich culture, language and traditions.
Briefing with the Head of the Department of Court Support at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ilyas Spaniard.
the purpose of the order is to organize the collection, removal, processing of products and their wastes at the expense of individuals and legal entities.
Leaders and representatives of the Kazakh-German Business Council for Strategic Cooperation, as well as members of the German parliament, praised the effectiveness of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan in the message of the head of state "bright path - path to the future."
Kostanay State University named after A.Baitursynova plans to provide the region with specialists and engineers.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the state pays great attention to the development of the South Kazakhstan region, which is one of the leading regions in terms of population.
The words made during the meeting with the Chairman of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan were a vivid evidence that the elections are held at a high level, professionalism, "said D. Mezentsev.
Five of your institutional reforms is a clear step towards achieving the common goal of Kazakhstan, "the statement says.
During the event, unprecedented materials related to the Great Patriotic War were presented for the first time.
We intend to improve relations between the European Union and Kazakhstan, "said the Minister of Agriculture
The head of the usaid mission expressed readiness of the American side to continue supporting the development of non-governmental organizations in our region, the Governor's office reported.
youth, public figures, artists and athletes, pop stars will take part in the celebration of the victory of the head of state.
The 1st stage of the project is estimated at 13.3 billion tenge, the second - at 18.9 billion tenge.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, welcoming his colleague, who first arrived on Kazakh soil, noted that the capital regards the city of Caracas as a reliable Latin American political and economic partner.
The event will be held from March 27 to 29, 2015 in the city of Urumqi.
currently goes to the development of the production of kumys poured into a "boring" box.
According to the Mayor's Office, for 1 year the cost of paying for electricity decreased by more than 31 million tenge.
The Chamber has ratified the agreement between the world organization for animal health and the Government of Kazakhstan on the creation of a subregional coordinating council of the world organization for animal health in the capital, the press service reports.
already this year, 2 houses for 60 apartments for "young families," 32 for all categories of people through the "housing construction savings bank" 1 house for 120 apartments from the microdistrict "a," In total, at the 2nd stage, it is planned to rent 747 apartments from the Akku microdistrict and complete the construction of 3 houses for 120 apartments for waiting lists of local executive bodies.
The Speaker noted the importance of last year's visit to Kazakhstan of the Chairman of the Consultative Council of Saudi Arabia Abdullah al-Sheikh.
this is a very right decision, because we all live in the same country of the future.
This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of our Constitution and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. this year we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the country 's main law - the constitution and the 20th anniversary of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
recall that Yushempirov - Honored Master of Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan,) - the first Olympic champion from Kazakhstan (Moscow, 1980).
also, to the report of the head of the department, the main projects in the region - "Western Europe - Western China," "Alma-Kapshagai," "Almaty-growth," Akbulak-ed-Talgar roads, "Measures taken and shortcomings in the alienation of land for state needs necessary for the construction of the Almat-Taldykorgan gas pipeline, compliance with the legality of changing the target land assignment, reliability of information unused by cities-areas.
According to polling stations in the capital and cities of Almaty, at 14-00 hours on April 26, 2015, 68.48% of voters received ballots, "said M. Sarsembayev.
in the library of the Arshaly district of Akmola region on the topic: read the Arshaly district! " his action took place.
places for observers and proxies.
our fathers and grandfathers won.
our compatriots living abroad associate their dreams and goals with the Nazarbayev. our compatriots living abroad bind all their plans , dreams , and hopes with mr. nazarbayev .
the bill is aimed at further improving legislation in the field of intellectual property, removing administrative barriers, limiting norms, "the conclusion of the committee on legislative and judicial reform says.
N. Yermekbayev noted that the head of state pays special attention to the issues of sustainable development of Kazakhstan and environmental protection.
At the same time, as part of the program for the construction and receipt of social rental housing, 1.5 thousand apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 29 million square meters are planned to be commissioned.
in addition, there is round-the-clock monitoring and discharge of wastewater in the villages of berry, Old Cluton and the city of Atbasar.
improvement of competitiveness, structure of productivity and economy, provision of new types of production services.
a single portal combined on its pages all the services and brands of Kazakhtelecom joint-stock company.
it is planned that in May the Indian military will arrive in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, I want more non-governmental organizations to work in the country, "he said.
The site contains documents on the work of kha, articles by leading scientists and experts on the model of Kaogam consciousness and unity of n.nazarbayev.
During the event, he separately focused on the priority areas of the message.
a feedlot for the simultaneous maintenance of 3,000 cattle was built in 2014.
I am a responsible citizen of the country and came to the polling station to vote for the future of my children, "said A. Shaweyev.
Thus, competition will be created for getting into the national team, "the deputy said.
the difficult fate and teenagers with veterans defending the country need special attention.
During the meeting, representatives of the Kazakh delegation met with the heads of countries of the Pacific coast and discussed the development of bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
It is worth noting that as part of the national plan, an open day will be held in the embassies of Kazakhstan abroad. i must say that within the national plan this year all embassies of kazakhstan abroad will hold the open days .
On the train are cultural and sports figures, medical workers, social workers and representatives of banks.
In addition, there are 2 more projects that we plan to launch in 2016.
the work done at present, taking into account the agreements concluded, in my understanding, is not an obstacle to the timely implementation of this project, "said the Minister of Finance.
we are the first state to achieve such an individual program, and we consider this the first step towards the entry of the Republic of Kazakhstan into the membership of Jordan.
according to him, at this time an agreement was concluded between the committee and the eidu.
The head of the region was also visited by a war veteran, a labor veteran.
It is very important for us to raise their mood, "said the deputy head of the state revenue department in Astana.
The long-term partnership envisaged during the memorandum is aimed at providing all participants in the educational process of Kazakhstan with the best educational resources and technologies, as well as at invistential support for the education of Kazakhstan by international organizations and providing the education system of Kazakhstan with modern world trends.
In the reader B. Saparbayev got acquainted with the implementation of the "Employment Roadmap 2020" and visited a 60-apartment residential building built within the framework of this program.
It is planned that the Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan will take part in the briefing.
Kazakhstan is Tajikistan's foreign trade partner in second place after Russia.
From 2010 to 2013, 14 new plants were launched, more than 2.5 thousand jobs were created (in 2010 - 3 projects, in 2011 - 1 project, in 2012 - 6 projects, in 2013 - 4 projects).
Last year, 250 tons of copper were produced, in 2014, investments were allocated not only to support existing industrial installations, but also to expand production. last year 250,000 tons of copper were produced in 2014 , most part of the investment was directed not only to maintain the existing park of industrial equipment , but also to expand our production .
At the same time, as the head of state noted, in just 2 years the capital will host the international exhibition EXPO-2017, which will be a reflection of the real potential and capabilities of Kazakhstan.
through such Internet and online conferences, users can leave messages in all areas of the police under the heading "question-answer" and on the "page of trust" about violations by iio employees.
each festival participant performs one song or melody on a national instrument.
On behalf of the head of state, work will continue to increase the importance of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program.
we are seeing very high achievements, the business climate of strategic partnership can improve.
members of the Republican Council of Veterans of the Great Patriotic War wrote that the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the presidential election is a recognition of his merits and a manifestation of the confidence of the entire people of Kazakhstan.
these are our main events at the central level.
A memorial plaque is installed on the house where the war veteran lived.
awarded the Gold Star medal, the Order of Lenin and the orders of Marshal of the Soviet Union Zhukov I, II degrees, the Great Patriotic War and "Honor," "Barys."
on the day of the election and on the day before it (article 32 of the constitutional law).
this will not only expand the common economic space, but also increase the attractiveness of the integration association, strengthen the economic stability of the EAEU member states and the Central Asian region.
after a course battle he was sent to Chukotka. after the battle of kursk i was sent to chukotka , " the veteran said .
Active participant of the initiative to increase the transport and logistics potential of the Kazakhstan silk road. kazakhstan actively contributes to the resumption of the transport logistics potential of the silk road .
In June 1941 he was called up to the front, in 1942-1943 he was the commander of a platoon of sappers.
During the event, the head of the region awarded medals "70 years of Victory" to veterans of the Second World War B. Duysenov.
firstly, this is the climate, this is distance from the sea and historical cultural heritage, "said N. Nazarbayev.
For the first time, the procedure for the extradition of military contingents is being carried out.
with the support of the state, during the reconstruction of the central-southern, central-eastern, central-western corridors, it is planned to build 8 service facilities in the settlements of arched, focal, shidert, swan, lancer, video, Turgai and reddish.
Since the head of government is the hub of the Eurasian region of Kazakhstan, he called on Croatian companies to intervene in business in Kazakhstan.
this will give a significant impetus - we will receive integrated, direct communications and the capabilities of the business communities of all five states, "said R. Oshakbayev.
Abdel Fattah expressed sincere congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
erg group includes large system-forming enterprises that make up the industrial potential of Pavlodar region. the erg groups the largest , strategic enterprises , which form the industrial potential of pavlodar region .
a. Yelemesov familiarized the business community of the region with the current situation and prospects for the development of the Kazakh economy, national innovative potential, preferences for foreign business and investment in Kazakhstan.
Voting will begin at seven in the morning at all 9,741 polling stations in the capital and will last until 8 p.m.
Also, the plant for the production of titanium alloys and alloys of the East Kazakhstan Posuk Titanium LLP was put into operation.
among them, grain crops - 1.9 million tons, oilseeds - 50.4 thousand tons, fodder crops - 29.4 thousand tons, potatoes - 239.6 thousand tons.
In 2014, 12.9% of the total processing industry projects were implemented.
It is noted that today 110 ethnocultural associations and 9 friendship houses operate in the region.
more materials came to the competition than in Almaty, Akmola, West Kazakhstan regions.
based on linguistic parallels, he deeply believed that the ancestors of the Vikings, as their deities, were in this zone. "
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, the signed agreements of 1996-1997 contributed to the further fruitful development of the participation of the People's Republic of China in good neighborliness, mutual trust and cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, the Russian Federation.
According to the press service, the chairman of the human rights commission under the head of state told the participants of the presentation. Head of the Department of Internal Policy of the Presidential Administration Aida Balayev, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Rashid Dzhakupov, Minister of Special Assignments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
here the head of state was presented the work of the center and the types of products stored in it were presented.
Obviously, the central election commission and local akimats have done a lot of work in calling voters to vote. most of the work , carried out by the central election commission and the governor 's offices at the invitation of the voters , is obvious .
training trainings are held on the basis of the Kokshetava fillet of the "taste" project and work in this direction is carried out by the methodologists of the chamber.
the leaders of the two countries also discussed the situation in Ukraine, ways to resolve it with the participation of all interested parties.
ideology in the life of any state or any country. the importance of ideology in the life of any society and any state may be overstated .
The action "We forever remember," which started in the armed forces in January, for several months united more than a thousand military personnel in all regions of the country.
Recall that Euroopter Kazakhstan Engineering LLP has a service center and an academy for training pilots, mechanics and technicians.
so far, military personnel have trained separately.
The event was organized by the Center for the Development and Analysis of Interfaith Relations, which is managed by the Akmola Regional Department for Religious Affairs.
During the talks, the parties expressed mutual interest in further deepening bilateral relations in all areas of legal cooperation, as well as strengthening the legal framework for the further development of the existing partnership, the Prosecutor General's Office said.
we are sure that your next fights will also increase the status of domestic sports to a higher level, will become an example for the younger generation, "the telegram says.
Nevertheless, the principle of improving the quality and accessibility of medical services, simplifying administrative measures, reducing bureaucracy, developing new criteria for the quality of medical care and establishing feedback with patients is common to everyone, "the ministry said.
At the same time, he noted that during the preparation of documents for public procurement in the chamber, the issue of checking design estimates is being worked out.
According to Dyrissov, this Minsk position was optimized in January with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan.
In the Kostanay region in January-November 2014, the number of births amounted to 11,814 people, of which 55.8% were newborns in the urban area. the number of births in january-november 2014 in kostanai region was 11,814 people , 55.8 % of them are newborns from the city .
summing up the conference, the Vice President of the Academy of Social Sciences of Kazakhstan highly assessed the current achievements of Kazakhstan, noting the importance of stability in Kazakhstan and the timeliness of the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
The CEO of the company in Kazakhstan, juan juanicotena, announced that in the framework of cooperation on the oil and gas project at the Karachayevskoye field, in order to support the work of the tenaris in local territories, he will invest $40 million in the construction of a new workshop with a capacity of 45,000 tons/year in Aktau.
Adaulbaev noted the relevance of strengthening bilateral relations, exchanging information and experience in the fight against organized crime.
this is the way to the future, the way to eternal country.
manufacturing of solid materials and metal structures, reinforcement and reinforced concrete parts.	pangereyev noted  caspian plus " llp manufactures high-tech products for the mining industry , which has no analogues in kazakhstan and other cis countries .
election monitoring is an important way to support democracy and human rights. observation of the elections is an important way to support democracy and human rights .
The Foreign Minister noted that Kazakhstan and Iran have great prospects for the development of cooperation in a number of industries.
This was announced by the head of the Department of Industry and Industrial and Innovative Development of the region Igembayev.
We ask the akimats together with the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the Ministry of Culture to solve this issue, "he said.
he complained to doctors of the medical train "healthy Kazakhstan" about the deterioration of health.
in particular, the representative of the Italian Senate sergio divina noted that the book of Nursultan Nazarbayev is devoted to the global problems of our time.
The memoranda signed today will help our enterprises, give a new impetus to improving the quality of products, residents will confidently carry out their work and feel stability in salaries, "said the Governor of the region.
The conference aroused great interest from Spanish entrepreneurs, who expressed interest in working in Kazakhstan, expressed awareness about the stability of the political system of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a favorable investment climate for creating business in the republic and the functioning of large international companies.
this is 21.1% more than the figure specified in the agreement on the results of the targeted transfer provided for in the republican budget signed between the Governor's Office of the region and the Ministry of Health and Social Development.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 154 investment projects worth 9.3 billion tenge were implemented, including 68 projects worth 6 billion tenge for Kazagro JSC.
In turn, M. Temer, expressing gratitude for the message, noted the stability and successes in the domestic policy of Kazakhstan and wished the president N. Nazarbayev wins in the extraordinary presidential election.
Czech representatives highly appreciate the economic potential and business opportunities of Kazakhstan presented to them.
Governor of the district Andrei Nikishov wished the residents happiness and well-being when renting the keys to the new apartment.
a closed polling station No. 182 for cadets, cadets and military personnel is located in the tent camp. the closed voting station has been opened for students , cadets and recruits in the camp .
at the meeting, the salidat Kairbekova introduced the guests to the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan," noting that to fulfill the tasks of strengthening the health of the nation, domestic specialists will study and put into practice the best practices of other countries.
there are all specialists who cannot find in any regional clinic: specialists in the treatment of nervous, cardiovascular diseases, oncologist, gynecologist and others.
Along with traditional events, we plan to hold a number of other events. along with the traditional activities we plan several large .
the number of veterans is growing every day.
in addition, premises are provided for a children's museum, a children's creative center, exhibition halls, restoration workshops, laboratories, a professional storage facility, a scientific library with a reading room, conference halls and souvenir kiosks.
The Expo 2017 Commissioner also held talks with the Secretary of State of the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries.
The Minister of Agriculture noted that compared to 2013, for the first time in 2014, there was a decrease in imports by 6%, including imports from the countries of the customs union - by 10%.
in addition, he called on enterprises to work actively together to solve problems.
The 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate is planned to be celebrated this year at the national level. foundation of the kazakh khanate , which we celebrate this year at the national level , is associated with the formation and development of kazakh statehood .
After raising the kha flag, participants in the opening ceremony will be presented with the work of craftsmen "Folk Heritage."
As noted in CC, conducting technical exercises through videoconference communication can become the main tool for establishing contacts with regional and network divisions of the company and conducting exercises.
these positive changes bring significant income to each member of society and will contribute to the further development of the state, "the expert said.
During the speech at the VI Congress, the head of state paid a lot of attention to agriculture, touched on its prospects and potential. in his keynote speech at the vi congress nursultan nazarbayev paid attention to agriculture , to its future .
he noted that "people like Elena Vasilievna are fingers.
In addition, during the meeting, deputy requests of Senator K. aitakhanov were heard about the need to take comprehensive measures to improve the demographic situation and migration issues, about the need to comprehensively study the issues of revising the 12-year education system and transferring local natural time and other issues.
As of January 1, 2015, 5083 World War II veterans were registered in Kazakhstan.
competition of Kazakhstani goods is growing, our goods can confidently enter foreign markets.
According to him, if earlier foreign citizens working in Kazakhstan did not have access to social security and social insurance, now this agreement provides for social insurance for motherhood, birth, accident insurance at work and health insurance for labor migrants consisting of citizens of the EAEU member states.
we have 289 thousand people, they are able to work. in kazakhstan there are about 289,000 people who are able to work .
At the end of the year, following the results of the "Gift to the National Museum" campaign, an exhibition with exhibits collected in the museum will be presented.
According to the press, 2 thousand 500 events were organized in the republic, in which 620 thousand people took part.
In particular, they expressed their readiness to cooperate between the Taraz State Pedagogical Institute and the Siana Pedagogical University on the exchange of students and teachers.
In 2014 alone, the number of hotels and hotels in which tourists are located increased by 44% and exceeded 120 units.
Veterans and villagers took part in the event.
According to the Vice Minister, a bad pocket is provided for 10-15% in each military unit.
National Agency for Development of Local Content nadloc announces the beginning of acceptance of applications for reimbursement of part of costs of subjects of industrial and innovative activity when certifying goods, works, services and quality management systems in accordance with universally recognized international standards allowed for use in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and included in the state list of technical control systems approved in the legislative order, including:
Recall that at the expanded meeting of the board, which took place on February 17 of this year, the minister said that in order to ensure the protection of patients' rights, the work of patient support and internal control services open in all medical organizations of the country will be strengthened from 2010.
According to Ktzh Uk JSC, the ferry complex at the Kuryk pier is an important object for building up Kazakhstan's transit potential in the western direction through Caspian ports.
in addition, e. Nikitinskaya added that banks with equal lending provide great support in this direction.
woman, family, society, these three are closely connected.
and prices for them will be increased, "said N. Nazarbayev.
international observers have the right to accompany one interpreter with identification during the election, "said representatives of the department.
according to him, today there are too many state programs that overlap with each other.
77,025 thousand tenge is also provided for the development of single-industry towns.
this will fully ensure the need of the economy for electricity, "said the school.
62 objects were put up for sale, 46 objects were sold, 14 objects were suspended from sale.
It is expected that the legislative services will determine the procedure for interaction of the state, authorities, legal entities depending on the conditions for the development of nuclear energy, "said Deputy Minister of Energy Bakytzhan Zhaksaliyev.
In addition, within the framework of the conference, a training seminar was held for representatives of the CIS countries on wide access to public services.
our farmers are ready to work in difficult conditions related to the world situation, "said T. Ibraev.
Thus, a tripartite memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the railroad factory, and the Karaganda University.
I also sent congratulations to the staff of the Almaty bridge construction plant, who expressed confidence that only under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev the country will be able to overcome any difficulties and burdens, reach new heights, as well as ensure the stability and prosperity of the republic.
The Prime Minister of the Bhutanese Kingdom on behalf of the people of the country and on his own behalf congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.
With the support of the Governor's Office of the region, creative teams of ethnocultural associations participate in interregional and international balls.
Currently, the Ministry is implementing the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025.
Currently, the procedure for concluding a contract with Morport Rehabilitation JSC is underway.
we want to show that under one shanyrak, several nationalities work, live, study in society, "said B. Mamraev.
Nұrly zhol is the way to the future, "this is our main goal.
they always gladly meet leading specialists in the field of cardiac pharmacy, offering new knowledge, information, the opportunity to receive practical advice.
Therefore, it is necessary to improve tourism infrastructure, develop law in this direction, prices for tourism products should correspond to the quality of services provided, "said E. Tarasenko.
this decision was made unanimously by representatives of our community, "said R.
Human rights are a priority area of state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, its high value.
we need to make favorable tariff benefits to increase the volume of transit cargo from China to the countries of the Persian Gulf, Iran and Turkey, in the opposite direction, "summed up A. Mamin. we are to work on the formation the favorable tariff conditions for the development and promotion of the potential volume of transit cargo from china to the gulf countries , iran and turkey , and return as well , " mamin noted .
A single program is presented to business entities in the field of rehabilitation and single-town processing production and the provision of services, "said the director of the white branch of the Damu Foundation.
The Mayor noted that on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev special attention is paid to preschool education of children.
taking into account each rod planted, the total number of which was strongly traced, "the report said.
Currently, the main task is to attract investment in the manufacturing industry. the most important thing is to attract investment in the manufacturing sector .
At that time, a large international tournament was held with a prize pool - the cup of the capital.
baktykozha salakhatdin ismukhambets - akim of Kostanay region;
the letter also emphasizes the importance of gasification of settlements, as well as the exclusive role of the Western Europe-Western China transport corridor and the Capital Aktobe-Atyrau highway planned for construction in the further development of the region's economy.
As a result, today we have a modern system of public administration, legally covered state borders, an integrated economic space, established, strengthened production ties, "the deputy chairman added.
the natural volume index was 100.2%.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the importance of promoting the organization of forums that became the platform for global dialogues was noted - the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions (June), the Eurasian Media Forum (April), the Astana Economic Forum and the World Anti-Crisis Conference (May).
in addition, animal husbandry is dynamically developing.
Governor of the region nurlan nogayev solemnly handed over the keys to new apartments, congratulated everyone on the housewarming and the new year.
Identification and investigation of economic crimes, fraud, money-laundering and economic crimes related to their recovery.
Under the chairmanship of N. Nazarbayev, compatriots will return to their historical homeland on Kazakh soil. under the leadership of nursultan nazarbayev , under one banner of kazakhstan , more and more of our fellow citizens will be coming to their historic homeland .
a year was created between the two countries. the railway has been built recently .
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Recep Erdogan, who arrived at the educational institution, got acquainted with the layout of the university campus and visited the museum.
Our main goal is to support young people and student creative groups, preserve their energy and desire for further development, increase their talent and growth, "the deputy akim said.
These plans were announced by the head of the state revenue department, the racehorse and the head of the department of economics and budget planning, the Nurpeis genre.
The key areas of reform are the formation of professional and independent measures in the decisions of the state apparatus, "said the youth of Kazakhstan.
So, B. Ertaev on behalf of representatives of public associations called on veterans and a youth organization, all citizens to support this initiative.
high results of Almaty schoolchildren at republican and international competitions led to this action.
there are problems in inclusive education, before that we emphasized all these children. there is a problem of inclusive education , in previous years we always separate these children .
In the field of health, 14 facilities were built in 2014, including 12 rural outpatient clinics, a children's tuberculosis hospital in Semey, and a central district hospital in a deep region.
the successful implementation of the nation's plan required a favourable international climate. the successful implementation of the plan of the nation requires a favorable international climate .
aa. Idrissov noted that cooperation with the Caribbean states is a new direction for Kazakhstan and one of the key issues is close, comprehensive cooperation in this direction.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, work is the main source of good life for every citizen.
Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev - akim of Kyzylorda region;
he also asked to transfer information about the war to the regional archive if there were photos.
the artist also noted that it takes some time to manufacture his products.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War and labor of Astana are honored guests of the gala concert.
The event was attended by First Deputy Chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" Bauyrzhan Baibek, Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Herala Togzhanov, Akmola Sergey Kulagin and others.
videos with the performance of the best were sent to the capital.
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the interlocutor with the main measures taken by the government to increase the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan.
The past four forums have promoted dialogue among religions and civilizations. four held forums helped to promote dialogue between the religions and civilizations .
The theme of the exhibition expo is "energy of the future."
This event was carried out by the local executive bodies through the relevant departments (departments) for defense.
This year 126 thousand 786 Kazakh schools will be graduated.
Today, the development process of the Kazakh army determines professionalization, informatization, robotization and intellectualization.	according to first deputy minister of defense of the republic of kazakhstan colonel-general saken zhassuzakov the defining trends of kazakhstan 's army development are its professionalization , computerization , robotics and intellectualization .	0,93
It is worth noting that large contracts and negotiations are signed annually at aef.	each year , the aef concludes major contracts and agreements .	0,93
in addition, beginner entrepreneurs will be offered training programs in all areas: business plan, management, marketing, and so on.	in addition , start-up entrepreneurs get training programs on business , including the basics of business planning , management , marketing .	0,93
It is worth noting that the competition consisted of two stages.	the competition was held in two stages .	0,93
great state support was provided in the field of agriculture.	the state support was provided to the agricultural sector .	0,93
the rules for protecting personnel from weapons of mass destruction, studying new means of communication, and conducting negotiations were also mastered.	in addition , they worked out the ways to protect the personnel from weapons of mass destruction , learned the new means of communication , the rules of negotiations .	0,93
in particular, Acting President of the Republic of Tatarstan R. Minnikhanov.	in particular , acting president of tatarstan rustam minnikhanov noted that the victory of nursultan nazarbayev at the last elections is well-deserved .	0,93
The first five-year plan of industrialization provided excellent opportunities for the anti-crisis impact on the events of the global economy, "N. Nazarbayev said.
At the opening of the exhibition, the Young Wing Center presented a mini-concert program.
Mayor of Almaty noted the high level of development of political dialogue and multilateral ties between Kazakhstan and Germany, covering trade and economic, cultural, scientific and educational, health and other spheres.
it will be implemented on the basis of English law, preferential tax treatment and an independent financial court. it will be based on the principles of english law , preferential tax treatment and independent financial court .
To date, construction and installation work on gasification has been carried out in the amount of 96,000 linear meters and 3,000 houses have been attracted.
the project will strengthen cultural ties between regions, popularize museum business, introduce residents and guests of the capital to valuable artifacts of material and spiritual culture of the Kazakh people collected from huge funds of regional historical local history museums of Kazakhstan.
According to the agency, 257.1 thousand square meters of housing were introduced in the region at the expense of all sources of financing.
The colocation service involves the placement of government devices and the rental of infrastructure.
new samples used only modern fabrics and new technologies.
It is easy to explain why the choice fell into this team: the work of Kazakhstani youth is recognized as the most coordinated project that meets all the requirements of the competition in terms of the use of high-efficiency technologies, providing comfortable conditions, "said the general manager of the architecture department of the national company Astana Expo-2017 Zaura Aytayeva.
the new version of the law "On State Youth Policy" is effective if the state previously allocated large funds to youth, created a resource center and financed a youth organization.
in this peacetime, you stand under the protection of independence, protect the borders and stability, the legality of our country.
war veterans were awarded diplomas of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the project is aimed at start-up entrepreneurs, including unemployed, self-employed and individuals who want to open their own business.
we have foreign exchange loans, and we use the currency inverter only to repay loans. we have foreign currency debt and we invest currency only to cover , service the loans that we have .
Kazakhstan did not expect a large influx of foreign labor from the EAEU countries, "said T. Duissenova.
In turn, the Malaysian side highly appreciated the pace of development of Kazakhstan and its reputation in the international arena, noting the need to further expand the ties between the business circles of the two countries.
I returned safely, now I live in the labor district of Almaty region, "said V. Pavlov.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that tourism is developing well in the region.
The President of Kazakhstan also visited laboratories of biosensors and biocurals, waste cytometers, immunobiology and microscopy.
servicemen completed a combat mission on the way.
Along with the main issues related to the implementation of justice, the head of the Office of the Kostanay Regional Court, N. Katarbekov, focused on information on the work done on the basis of the logistical support of the regional courts, the introduction of new information technologies in the courts, and audiovisual recording of trials.
At the same time, the Minister noted that Kazakhstan needs to pay attention to the effective use of agricultural land.
Kazakhstan is implementing large-scale programs focused on innovations and transition technologies. kazakhstan has implemented a large-scale program of industrialization with a focus on innovation and technology transfer .
if the issue concerns two states, then the key Eurasian Economic Commission will be resolved.
the song closing the ceremony will be in Kazakh, Russian, which will be performed by Russian and Kazakhstani singers, "said A. Dauletiyarov.
a special room was allocated for the steam shop, which was repaired and prepared. there was a special room repaired and prepared for packing plant .
society should participate in elections, even if there is a nomad in our country who should be active in decision-making, because he takes political responsibility, "the expert said.
they should become the main spiritual direction for representatives of the Kazakh young generation - heirs to victory, "Nursultan Myrzakaev emphasized.
Kazakhstan takes care of young people in various fields, including training them abroad.
in the future, the main vectors of the development of international cooperation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be determined.
today, with your help, we have reduced the lifetime, repair of equipment, the manufacture of additional parts necessary for the device. today we decreased downtime , time of dislocation , equipment repair , manufacturing spare parts for equipment .
prosperity of peaceful life, cohesion and cohesion of our people, "said the head of the region.
I congratulate the country on this artistic holiday. i want to congratulate our country , our favorite city that we have always place a cause for celebration .
The head of the ecu/diakb mission expressed gratitude for the invitation to take part in the election campaign contest, and also expressed confidence that the cooperation of the mission experts with members of the Central Election Commission in all aspects of the election process will be close and professional.
"If you predict a year - a crop plus, if you plan a century - plant seedlings, if you want - raise a person, offspring," said N. Nazarbayev.
Today is a significant date, we are holding the exhibition for the sixth time. today it is the jubilee date ; we hold the exhibition for the fifth time .
of which 99.4% for the republican budget and 99.5% for the local budget.
More than 700 facilities built during the years of industrialization, as well as 70 enterprises scheduled for launch this year, need well-trained engineers. more than 700 objects built during the years of industrialization , and about 70 companies that are planned to be commissioned this year have need of well-trained engineers .
we can jointly study your experience in the field of small and medium-sized businesses, thereby transferring the experience in Lithuania to the Kazakh territory. we can study of your experience in the field of small and medium business and introduce it to kazakhstan .
In addition, the meeting of the bureau also discussed the issue of holding parliamentary hearings on the topic "Problems and prospects for the development of the oil and gas sector of Kazakhstan."
thus, we are putting all fertile lands into disrepair.
the program provides for the implementation of reforms, as well as the implementation of large projects in key areas of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan.
You participated in the rebirth of the state after the war years.
he noted its focus on ensuring the sustainable development of the country and outlined the main directions of bilateral cooperation within the framework of the development of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050.
The complex, which includes 13 buildings, has 4 clinics for 1000 visits per shift, 35 structural divisions, as well as a hospital for 200 places with a total area of ​ ​ 84 thousand square meters. meters.
Deputy Chairman of the Majilis met with First Deputy Chairman of the State Duma A. Zhokov, chairmen of the tax and budget committees A. Makarov and the head of the Committee on Anti-Corruption and Security I. Yarov.
most members of election commissions are trained, "the distributed information says.
He recalled that as part of the kha activity plan, 150 events of ethnocultural associations, more than 170 events of the scientific and expert council are planned.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this year the country celebrates a number of important historical events that contribute to strengthening the unity of the people, mutual understanding and tolerance.
Mandatory implementation of video and tape measures in all trials.
citizens who arrived at a personal invitation to foreign states, on an official, business and tourist trip, when applying to the precinct election commission and having a valid passport of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
all materials on the theme of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate are placed in the departments of the Kazakh Khanate, independence, discoveries, action plans, film projects, video blogs and cultural heritage.
Recall that this project was presented in 2014 during the XVIII International Forum of Economic Silk Road in Shanxi Province of China.
during this time, the assembly became a truly national, national body and received constitutional status. for this period the assembly turned into really nationwide , general civil , supra political authority , gained the constitutional status .
primary care will be a central component of national health care for the prevention and early control of the disease.
In addition, according to the department, in the field of education on the agenda is the construction of a school with 600 seats in the village of Derkul and the construction of a kindergarten with 290 seats in the village of Genghirlau.
dear Kazakhstanis!
the regional stage of the republican contest "Jubilee Family" is envisaged, the report said.
in addition, the certification performs the tasks of forming a personnel reserve of military personnel to upgrade the staff ladder or prepare boards to send for training and eliminate shortcomings for military personnel.
He also noted that in the near future a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Norman Four and the contact group on the crisis in eastern Ukraine will be held, where a draft document will be developed, which will be discussed in the capital of Kazakhstan.
The high level of cooperation in the military sphere confirms not only the interest of the parties, but also the effective use of the existing potential, the formation of a constructive approach to cooperation issues, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan believes.
According to the chairman of the meeting, Kazakhstan also expressed interest in establishing contacts between China on the affairs of people and nationalities.
This figure is confirmed by data that in 2014 about 500 families of Semipalatinsk celebrated their resettlement.
The bill is designed to further improve legislation in the field of state assets management, to approve the legal framework for limiting the state's participation in sectors of the economy with the participation of business in the country, contributing to improving competition and creating favorable conditions for the further development of private entrepreneurship.
rubber and plastic products, other non-metallic mineral products, metallurgical products and oil refining products.	the production of rubber and plastic products , other non-metallic mineral products , metal products and refined petroleum products has been increased .	0,93
on the same day, the President of Kazakhstan in an acord will receive credentials from ambassadors of a number of foreign countries.	on the same day in akorda the president of kazakhstan will take credentials from the ambassadors of foreign countries .	0,93
During the visit, meetings were held with the President of Latvia andris Berzins, the Minister of Transport - co-chairman of the Kazakh-Latvian intergovernmental commission anris matiss, the Minister of Environmental Protection Caspar Gerhards, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economy Edgar putra and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Andrei Fildegovic.	as reported in the ministry of foreign affairs , he met with latvian president andris berzins , minister of transport , co-chairman of the kazakh-latvian intergovernmental commission anris matisse , environment minister kaspars gerhards , parliamentary secretary to the ministry of economy edgar putra and state secretary of foreign andrejs pildegovich .	0,93
they spent two weeks in a tent camp at an altitude of 3,100 meters in mountainous conditions. for two weeks they spent in the mountains in a camp at an altitude of 3100 meters .
Next year, the department plans to hold mass events.
The project will cover all cities and areas of the country.
Material assistance will last until April 30.
the emergence and development of nuclear medicine, the emergence of radiation technologies in the modern world, the provision of high-quality patient care, the medical and surgical sphere. formation and development of nuclear medicine and radiation technologies in the modern world , allowing patients to provide quality services for high-tech diagnosis and treatment of serious diseases , are increasingly preferred in place of traditional medical and surgical therapy .
obstetrics, gynecology and perinatology. the scientific center for obstetrics , gynecology and perinatology provides highly specialized care to the pregnant women , women with serious illnesses from all regions of kazakhstan .
we were among those who took part in the creation of the people, but we were able to overcome it. we are the participants of the formation of the apk , who were on the first session of the apk , we remember the harsh conditions we were in olden times , including our kazakhstan .
among them is a workshop for the production of semi-finished products "Omarov."
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the main and solid foundation of peace and harmony, friendship of all ethnic groups living in our holy homeland.
An important document was signed at the meeting chaired by Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev, the national company reported.
As A.Sekeshev noted, work on a large enterprise "Kazphosphate" continues.
Representatives of more than 50 countries intend to take part in the work of this bank, "said the leader of the nation.
funds were allocated for the purchase of medical equipment, "the akimat of Akmola region reported.
labor heroine of Kazakhstan "was awarded the title" Honored Artist of Kazakhstan. "
Honorary representatives of Indian Islam and Zoroastrianism confirmed their participation in the congress, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year.
close relationship between the population of Akzhar and Poltava districts.	and the simplified procedure will improve lives of both peoples .	0,93
I'm alone going to march to Russia from the Almaty region, "said veteran Vov Fedor Fedotov.
Kazakhstan passed the exam well after gaining independence.
According to the results of the competition, Stroydetal LLP (Aktobe) took 2nd place in the nomination "For Contribution to Ecology," the report said.
189.8 residential facilities worth 24,279 billion tenge; 76.1 non-residential facilities in the amount of 12,989 billion tenge, including 52.9 billion tenge; 14 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; securities worth 0.8 billion tenge.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, we also plan to support local producers.
The concept of this draft management of the national company is planned to be submitted to the government in July of this year.
this is particularly true in the field of education.
let our state live in peace and unity! "the old man concluded.
alik serikovich aidarbayev - akim of Mangistau region;
It is expected that this year a number of projects will be implemented in the social sphere.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the purpose of the visit is in 2017-2018. promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, as well as discussion of the current state and prospects of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries.
issues of ensuring the rights and freedoms of Kazakhstanis regardless of their racial, national, social groups, religious views and beliefs, guaranteeing the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the head of the fund thanked women for their active participation in the business transformation program.
It is planned to implement 4 projects on meat processing and livestock meat processing and build 3 poultry farms worth 60 billion tenge. it is planned to implement meat cattle breeding projects , three poultry farms worth more than 60 billion tenge .
the purpose of the agreement is to establish long-term effective bilateral cooperation in the training of highly qualified specialists for the metallurgical industry. the main purpose of the memorandum is a long-term cooperation on the training of highly qualified specialists for the metallurgical industry .
in accordance with international proposals, all components of preventive programs will be implemented in the country - aitv testing and counselling, art treatment, syringe replacement, distribution of membership and information and educational materials.
specialists will explain to citizens living in villages the conditions for participating in the program "Employment Roadmap -2020," advise on collecting and issuing the necessary documents.
5. document certifying the candidate's electoral contribution.
The Embassy takes over all organizational arrangements.
only then will we create many jobs.
For five years, the state received assistance from the National Agency for Technical Development 577 projects under.
Akmola region has great chances to implement the instructions of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev in the message "Nұrly zhol."
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, among the major projects put into operation in 2014 are the 2nd stage of the third New Zealand gas processing plant Snps-Aktobemunaigas JSC, the greenhouse complex of Aktobe Greenhouse LLP, the plant for the production of fittings and turns Kazzhyluenergomontazh, rail-beam TOO
in their works lies a deep philosophy.
He died on January 17, 1944 in Leningrad in the area of ​ ​ the Alexander station.
Karim nasbekovich Kokrekbaev - akim of Zhambyl region;
It is worth noting that in the period from 2009 to 2014, 6,336 apartments were commissioned in various cities and territories of Kazakhstan (of which 63 were leased), 201 cottages for 273 apartments.
In the past two months, the information group has held 48 meetings with 2,343 participants.
One of the main indicators of economic development is the volume of production. one of the main indicators of the economic development is the volume of industrial production .
and knowledge of the state language for many of them provides great opportunities for achieving success in study and work.
the more subsidies, the more agricultural producers, "he continued.
According to the Department of Statistics of West Kazakhstan region, in December 2014 the cost of living increased by 1.1% compared to the previous month and amounted to 16,851 tenge.
About 500 events will be held this year within the framework of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in Akmola region.
According to the Vice Minister, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan is preparing new grant programs.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 4053 citizens who applied, 2521 people received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 1018 people received applications for changing their details, 514 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
An exhibition of national dishes of peoples living in Kazakhstan was also held.
Today, Kazakhstan has formed an opinion in the international arena that organizes various dialogue platforms. today , kazakhstan is firmly established itself as the initiator of various kinds of dialogue platforms .
first of all - the patriotism of Kazakhstanis, the political literacy of citizens and their electoral culture, as well as the unity of the country, civic active position.
I wanted to see young people, I am interested in active youth, this is our future.
and 329.3 tenge will be allocated from the national fund for the construction of engineering and communication networks of rental houses.
with the help of video online service, the subscriber is given the opportunity through his own website (for example, to organize the distribution of sports events in schools, lycées, gymnasiums, colleges and universities) with connection of his own network video camera to the white network "Kazakhtelecom" through access to the Internet, and to upload streaming video in real time.
I have the opportunity to once again thank all Kazakhstanis who supported me, "the head of state said.
The results of the research were presented by the deputy chairman of the scientific and expert council of kha, the head of the center for the study of interethnic and interfaith relations in Central Asia of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan aigul saduakasova.
The head of the Darig Nazarbayeva faction noted that economic pragmatism and social responsibility are based on the budget bill.
Following the meeting, B.Sagintayev instructed to develop a package of legislative initiatives to radically improve the conditions of entrepreneurial activity aimed at increasing the indicators in the "doing business" rating of Kazakhstan.
As follows from the message, the main goal of the philharmonic representatives is to strengthen the heritage of great poets and works of Kazakhstani composers, the art of masters of classical music and national traditions, popularizing and developing them among the population.
T. President of the Republic of Kazakhstan expressing gratitude for Nazarbayev's congratulatory letter, he wished the Head of State good health and good, and the Kazakh people prosperity and prosperity.
The National Chamber sent an appeal to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev with a request to consider the situation and protect the rights of entrepreneurs.
During the meeting, it was emphasized that the implementation of the general agreement is mandatory for state bodies at all levels, as well as employers, workers and their representatives.
the historical consciousness of Kazakhstanis should work for unification, form a patriotic attitude towards their past, this time and the future. historical consciousness of kazakhs should work on cohesion , on the formation of patriotic attitude to its past , present and future , " - r.kadyrzhanov said .
The head of the city noted that Almaty is open for joint work throughout the Kazakh center of finance, science, tourism and all areas.
At the meeting with the President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, the main directions for the further development of trade and economic cooperation, as well as the interaction of the two countries within the framework of international organizations were discussed.
It is very important that the business community in Almaty felt real support. it is vital the almaty business community has a real support .
the flag of Kazakhstan symbolizes every Kazakhstani.
So, under the agribusiness program 2020, subsidies are provided for the cultivation of breeding fish.
The event is attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, kha members, representatives of state bodies, creative intelligentsia, etc.
It is noted that the subsidiary structure of the holding and the operator of the program Kazakhstan mortgage company together with akimats carry out coordination work among the waiting lists of houses.
In general, in order to prevent floods in the Akmola region, 653 thousand meters of snow were exported in cities and areas, 258 pieces of equipment were involved.
In 2015, it is planned to complete the construction of an additional 7 new industrial zones.
The training will take place from May 12 to June 12, 2015.
The total number of recipients of old-age pensions in the Republic of Kazakhstan as of December 1, 2014 is 1,909,597 people.
One of the goals of the Kazalans organization is to intensify various spheres, strengthen interethnic and interfaith relations to ensure sustainable development, unify the activities of non-state student organizations on ethyl, "the statement said.
In turn, the Ambassador noted that Germany supports important international initiatives of Kazakhstan and is interested in further development of cooperation with our country.
only one person returned, all the others died.
Nurala mustafaula saduakas - akim of Kostanay region;
Everything necessary for the house to be accessible to all citizens of our country, "said the chairman of the board.
According to him, this happens in the position of the republic, which in the legislative form defends public consent and stability, preventing any ideological, political discrimination. "
The Kazakh delegation took part in the 6th meeting of the Transit and Border Coordination Council, the 4th international conference devoted to the latest achievements in railway transport engineering.
Kazakhstan, in which we united. we , the people of kazakhstan , are a united nation !
today's holiday is the day that we and our nation dreamed of, "said the academician.
therefore, strengthening our partnership is beneficial to both countries, "said D. Akhmetov.
public associations will not work only on a state social order by winning or defeating the tender.
I believe that it is necessary to increase the level of civil responsibility and prepare young people for patriotism, "he said.
for example, the implementation of projects for the processing of oilseeds will solve the problems of oilseeds producers, "he said.
this project is aimed at solving topical issues in the field of animal husbandry, crop production, financing investment projects, attracting personnel to the agricultural industry.
The Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship is defined by the main committee on the bill "On the ratification of the agreement of the member states of the customs union on the elimination of technical barriers in mutual trade with the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States that are not member states of the customs union."
In accordance with the concept, participating countries should take all measures to fully ensure the rights of people with disabilities, including with legislative procedures, cover the active participation of persons with disabilities in the cultural and social sphere of society, the committee said.
in this regard, both sides noted the need for further development of cooperation between the parliaments of Kazakhstan and Qatar.
The creation of a national commission for modernization under the President of Kazakhstan as soon as possible indicates high relevance. the fact that the national commission on the modernization of the president was set up in such a record terms says that its relevance is really high .
In addition, in accordance with the program of the head of state "Nұrly zhol," the role of the capital will only increase as a transport center, as a large railway and automobile network, "said N. Aliyev.
the water exiting to Kiev villages is turned off, "said R. imankulov.
The head of the region also noted the importance of attracting long-term investments in sko.
Special transport for the transportation of products for the workshop was also purchased.
This decision was made in accordance with the resolution "On reducing the deadline for issuing subscription sheets in the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015, and checking the reliability of signatures in support of the presidential candidate."
Application forms are accepted by 10 February 2015.
bozumbayev - akim of Pavlodar region;
In addition, according to the Governor's Office of the region, 17 agreements totaling 865 million US dollars were signed within the framework of the international forum in Shymkent.
for this, teachers of these colleges will improve their qualifications in the capital under the leadership of our holding, "he continued.
The chairman of the board of Baiterek ux kuandyk bishimbayev announced preferential lending to domestic producers and exporters through kdb.
In my opinion, the party congress was an important event for our country.
The message pays special attention to social protection of the population, support of small and medium-sized businesses.
it covered all the social conditions of older persons.
At the end of the event Mayor of Almaty congratulated on the New Year and wished well-being and happiness to the residents of the new hostels.
In turn, the head of the Orthodox Church of Kazakhstan shared plans for the further work of the bishops.
According to the EU representative in Kazakhstan, the situation in other countries shows that the consequences of the inability to diversify the economy can lead to social and political conflicts in the country.
It is worth noting that 10.8 billion dollars were raised in Kazakhstan from Italy from 2015 to 2014.
Therefore, representatives of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, the command of the Commander-in-Chief of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, the training center "Partnership for Peace," employees of the Department of International Cooperation of Kazakhstan took part in a joint two-day practical seminar with specialists of Kazakhstan, Germany, Mongolia and Tajikistan in the city of Dushanbe.
business should always be applied, no one has the right to submit to private property.
In this regard, the head of state announced the signing of a decree on the creation of a national commission for modernization in order to implement five institutional reforms.
maritime trade transport is the main one in the transport industry of the Mangistau region, "the report said.
we are ready to cooperation, are open for the international observers and we consider their participation in a competition as a reason for providing a transparent, transparent, transparent situation of the upcoming elections, increases in trust to us all participants of electoral process, - K. Turgankulov noted.
these facilities were built in the 50-70s of the last century, do not meet modern requirements.
Young people cleared the house of a war veteran of snow, prepared firewood and water.
One of the first at this production site was an expensive investment project for the assembly of agricultural equipment of Gaz Kyoto LLP.
the republic has become a venue for large-scale international events.
freight turnover by all modes of transport increased by 0.5%, amounting to 2730.1 million tons/km, passenger turnover - 6177.9 million passengers/km (growth - 8.6%).
Last year Kostanay region implemented 33 new investment projects.
Representatives of the participating countries of the Ashgabat agreement "Uzbekistan-Turkmenistan-Iran-Oman" welcomed the accession to the further development of the international transit transport corridor with the participation of Kazakhstan.
During the visit of B. Itimov, a meeting was held between the Vice Minister of Foreign Relations of the Peruvian Republic claudio puento ribeiro and the Director of the Department of Multilateral Cooperation and International Organizations of the country, David Malaga ego-agiero, the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports.
The path to science is open, innovation, without science we cannot be among the 30 developed countries, "the head of state noted.
according to him, in this regard, the ee can become an important element of the world economy.
adoption of new standards will allow to apply innovative technologies and materials, increase competitiveness of Kazakhstani specialists in the construction services market, as well as enter foreign service markets in the construction industry.
investments in food production increased by 16.5% and amounted to 40.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
As the Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade noted in his opening remarks, over the past 10 years, trade between the two countries has grown significantly and reached $8 million, that is, 63 percent.
housing issues are on the agenda of akimats of regions and cities. the housing is one of the most important both for regional and city administrations .
an important role in this is played by the national contest "jubilee family," which is vivid evidence of the strengthening of the institution of marriage and the family, the popularization and preservation of family values.
as well as the village of Mezentsev noted the special, modern identity of the hall of the capital and the compliance of its equipment with the international image during the development of the young capital of Kazakhstan.
the event ended with the award of the titles "Honorary Professors of KazSU" and memorable gifts.
In particular, at the expense of the regional budget an additional 1.1 billion tenge is provided for the current expenses of the education sector.
the third is an agreement on the procedure for managing copyright and related rights on a collective basis.
we keep this issue under control, many enterprises support us, and such events will be held constantly, "said the deputy head of the AKP.
33.4 billion tenge has been spent to date.
Among the largest 100 primary organizations - 300 thousand people.
the project was approved, length - 65.5 km.
Over the years of cooperation, we managed to qualitatively transform bilateral cooperation. we started to cooperate with china from the first day of the declaration of kazakhstan 's independence .
there are achievements in the women's team. the women 's hockey team had a success in some competitions .
Thanks to these devices, 93 people were saved, "he added.
the landslide victory of today's Nursultan Nazarbayev gives us great hope for a bright future. today 's convincing victory of nursultan nazarbayev at the extraordinary elections of the president of kazakhstan gives us good reason to hope for light .
the presidents will also discuss trends in the development of the world economy and the situation in Ukraine.
microcredit is provided to end borrowers for the purchase of fuel and lubricants, grain, pesticides, mineral fertilizers, household materials and equipment, spare parts and components of agricultural equipment, working mechanisms, rental of equipment, warehouses, payment for services, storage of products and other purposes.
The kindergarten is actively implementing the program "multicultural education of children," the purpose of which is to create intercultural value among children and good relations with representatives of different nationalities.
According to him, work on animal husbandry, reproduction of state support measures gives positive results.
it ranks 16th in the world in terms of economic indicators, it is the work of all the people and the result of your efforts.
According to him, Kazakhstan took 40th place among 143 countries of the world according to the index of network readiness of the beef report.
at the meeting of the expert group, the issues of the effectiveness of employment of people with disabilities within the framework of the party project "Barrier-Free Perspective," as well as the problems of microcredit under the white system "Fund for Financial Support to Agriculture" and ways to solve them were discussed.
According to the chairman of the council, the state's efforts to train qualified specialists will have a positive impact on the country's economy and improve the quality of human capital.
I cannot name any reverse points on the organization of the elections. i cannot think of any negative aspects of organization .
Such festive events will be organized in the cities of zhezkazgan, satpai, balkhash.
nurmukhambet kanapiyaul abdibek - akim of Karaganda region;
The meeting participants noted the high potential of bilateral cooperation and the importance of its implementation through joint projects in promising areas.
The author, who has experience in several countries of the world, speaks about Kazakhstanis - they are distinguished by wide views and hospitality, wide. "
The Kazakh diplomat also informed the entire Armenian Catholicos about Kazakhstan's experience in the field of interethnic and interfaith harmony and about the results of congresses of leaders of world and traditional religions.
in addition, they will also meet with women with disabilities in the capital.
The curriculum is for one year and ten months.
According to the World Health Organization, 20.6 million new cases of cancer will be registered in the world by 2020.
During the visit, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan met with Deputy Chairman of the Grodno Oblast Executive Committee Viktor Liskovich and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Volkovysk District Mikhail Sitko and discussed issues of interregional cooperation.
opening the ceremony, the Secretary of State noted the deep symbolism of presenting high awards on the eve of our national holiday - Independence Day.	during the opening ceremony , secretary of state noted the symbolic awarding highest prizes on the eve of the national holiday - independence day .	0,94
the state does not have the opportunity to attract private business resources to solve socio-economic problems in the development of the country.	the state in turn will have an opportunity to attract private sector resources to address the socio-economic development of the country .	0,94
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War and Labor, colleagues, contemporaries, veterans, members of youth associations, spouses of the Hero, children and relatives gathered for the evening in memory of the hero.	the event was attended by the war veterans , home front workers , colleagues , wife and children of makhmet kairbayev .	0,94
the message of the president "Nұrly zhol" indicates the need to support business entities.
introduction of the principle of investment residency modelled on oak.
new pupils of the military school begin the educational process.
we always pay great attention to the personnel, because they perform combat functions in difficult natural conditions to protect the airspace of our country, "said Major General Nurzhan Mukanov.
heads of a number of public foundations, young activists of Almaty, as well as cultural figures of Kazakhstan in their letters on behalf of the youth of the city congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the last presidential election.
According to A. Sadvakasova, until noon 60% of the ballot papers were filled, 40% remained from noon.
The award of respect for colleagues was established by the club of professors of medicine, which appeared in Kazakhstan 7 years ago.
Through such state programs, real assistance is provided to medium and small businesses, "Zhanakov said.
Batalov - akim of Almaty region;
More than 40 contracting organizations are involved in the construction of the facility.
sergey vitalievich kulagin - akim of Akmola region;
the formation of national historical consciousness is an important part of the new Kazakhstan patriotism.
the meeting also considered in the first reading the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on auditing an international maritime organization."
servicemen handed over to the aksakal modern military uniforms of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and a bag for things of the Great Patriotic War.
The symposium is attended by a delegation headed by the Chairman of the Accounting Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan lamb shepherd.
It is reported that the meeting was attended by representatives of the international committee of the red cross: pierre emanul ducruet, sergey sayapin and zarif mukhitdinov.
Romania as the "southern gate" of the European Council can take a special place in the implementation of Kazakhstan's long-term plans.
we are developing leadership in the direction of coaching and attracting specialists, supporting initiatives, "said Dr. Russberg.
The sides noted that inter-parliamentary contacts contribute to the deepening of friendship and cooperation between the Kazakh and Swiss peoples.
Jiang Zengwei noted that the Chinese government pays special attention to the participation of the Chinese side in expo 2017, as well as the deepening and further development of relations between the business circles of the two states within the framework of the Kazakh-Chinese business council, "the statement said.
Recall that during the opening ceremony of the Year of Kha, 9 republican Kha contests started.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev took part in the "Present the National Museum" campaign.
The general purpose of the classes is to give sniper units experience in training, conducting military operations and teach disguise in winter conditions, the report said.
The issues of appointing the badge "Honorary Citizen" were also discussed.
at the same time, fighters of special forces units of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Chinese and Tajik Republic worked out passages in the shamsi tract with the help of mining equipment, the development of mountain slopes, exercises to enter the mountains and climb.
at the bureau meeting, amendments and additions were made to the resolution "On the action plan of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
The minimum wage for agricultural, forestry and fishery workers is 75.8 thousand tenge, which is 51.0% lower than the national average.
we maintain contacts with Singaporean business missions and associations.
As a result, last year 5 kindergartens for 800 places were introduced.
female prisoners of war are gathered from four regional commands of Kazakhstan, military units of all types of armed forces and military branches, as well as the central apparatus of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the leader of the nation, the state is doing everything to ensure peace in the country, establishing good relations with its neighbors.
resolving the situation in Yemen, Syria, Libya and Iraq, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, opposing the forces of the Islamic state of Iraq and the levant (science) and other extremist organizations and groups that threaten the peaceful life, sovereignty and territorial integrity of a number of Muslim countries.
Today, the military institute of the Air Defense Forces named after the twice Hero of the Soviet Union talgate begeldinov is a unique military educational institution in Central Asia.
Kazbifa company has a successful experience.
in particular, the proposed changes and additions in accordance with the notification regulate the issues of the pharmaceutical sector, organ and tissue transplantation, legal regulation of medical products and medical equipment, the provision of telemedicine services, improving the degree of national medicine and the quality of medical services provided to citizens.
This clinic is built and equipped with the necessary equipment.	the policlinic meets all standards and equipped with the most modern units .	0,94
Recall that on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of World War II, various events will be held in the armed forces and in all states.	the armed forces and the country as a whole , the 70th anniversary of victory in the great patriotic war will be dated many activities .	0,94
In order to exclude from the competence of the government issues of regulating oil exports through customs, protective, anti-import and compensatory investments and approval, amendments will be made to the law "On subsoil and subsoil use."
we have held this position for hundreds of years.
proposals are aimed at expanding cooperation and deepening industrial cooperation in this area, as well as solving common issues that took place in the industries of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Thus, the candidate for the presidency of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, the gendarmes of Syzdyks and Abylgaz Kaliakparin Kusain were registered in the country.
today we will plant Christmas trees, the alley of expo 2017 will be planted. today we plant " alley expo 2017 " and i think it is a great contribution to the greening of our city .
health, legs get tired, and I'm not only walking, "said the veteran.
It would be good if such kind events were often arranged, "said a member of the jury rose akzharkenova.
M. Myrzagaliyev also held talks with the Minister for Energy, Small and Medium Businesses and the Business Environment of Romania, Mr. Andrei Zherya.
Farmers from 14 districts of South Kazakhstan region, Shymkent and Turkestan will take part in the agricultural fair, which will bring 202 tons of environmentally friendly and high-quality products to the metropolis.
the diplomat said that the film tells about a certain period of the history of the people of Kazakhstan, about the similarity of its fate with the Lebanese people, about interethnic and interreligious friendship and harmony and events and facts that influenced the formation of future political, social views of the head of state.
The leading goal of the nomad exhibition is to present an important part of the Kazakhstan art scene, contemporary art of today's country.
The President of Kazakhstan once again congratulated on the upcoming holiday and wished each female subject and the Kazakh family warmth, happiness and consent.
now it is enough to log in to the e-government portal to receive these services.
Irtysh allocates 1.5 billion tenge for each city 3 billion tenge for the construction of 6 houses in cities with growth and Semipalatinsk.
Note, according to the charter of the party "Nұr Otan," the political council is the highest authorized body of the party during the congresses.
Kazakh elections differ in their scale. kazakhstan elections have such a big scale .
It is worth noting that in Aktobe region there is the only gypsy ethnocultural association in Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that this course is organized as part of the implementation of the individual plan of activities of partnership between Kazakhstan and in kind in accordance with the annual plan of activities of the "Kazcent."
I want it to be the most beautiful, clean, beautiful city.
The event was attended by 144 families from grades 7 (about thirty of them are wards and pupils of orphanages) and students of grades 6-7 of schools and lycées of Astana.
in the Kazakh part of the silk road, an effective translogistic system will be created with all infrastructure, continental, sea berths, road, railway, service service centers of a high level. on the kazakh section of the silk road there will be an effective translogistics system , all the necessary infrastructure , ports , roads , railways , logistics centers with high-level services .
After completion, the Astana-Temirtau road will be expanded to 4 lanes and turned into a category 1 road.
the above loan was divided between three subsidiaries of Kazagro Holding JSC and second-tier banks.
In the 2014 academic year, the training of personnel of higher scientific qualifications in Astana was carried out in 16 organizations that train undergraduates, 7 organizations that train doctoral students.
Of these, 12,797 residential facilities in the amount of 91.8 billion tenge, 7,406 non-residential facilities in the amount of 31.7 billion tenge, of which a commercial form in the amount of 18.4 billion tenge, 13 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; securities in the amount of 0.8 billion tenge.
The main strength of the government in this area is aimed at developing gas infrastructure and diversifying gas supplies to the southern regions of the country, "said B. Sagintayev.
earlier negotiations were held with the best Italian companies, these are food, engineering, logistics, the oil and gas sector, and the mining industry.
and other significant successes of Kazakhstan, achieved under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev and received the power of his far-sighted forecast for the future, ensured economic achievements and stability of the country, unity and consent of the people.
The purpose of the document is to strengthen and expand economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the state of a number of states by creating favorable conditions for investment, "the statement said.
In the future, the opening of a brand store is planned in Almaty.
the previous electronic definition of ztmo indicated movement in the depositor's pension account, but it did not indicate investment income. the nppc e-abstract issued previously showed the flows in depositor 's pension account , but did not specify returns on investment .
The industry produced products totaling 157.1 billion tenge, which is 1.9% more than in the same period last year.
this is a high indicator in the republic. 2.3 million tons of vegetables , melons and potatoes were harvested .
of these, 18 projects at the republican level are monitored by the government.	it should be noted , the above mentioned 100 projects includes 18 ones of the national level under the control of the government .	0,94
the Austrian guest noted that all representatives of the capital from different states once again give the opportunity to discuss political and economic issues on the same platform.	vice-speaker of the national council stressed the importance of the fact that astana has once again provided an opportunity for representatives from different countries to discuss political and economic issues .	0,94
a handicraft exhibition of folk heritage was presented to the participants of the opening ceremony. "
today the veteran lives with the family of his grandson Vladimir, "the report said.
Development of innovative technologies.
Mayra Aisina informed her colleagues about the work of the republican public headquarters, meetings with voters in the regions and noted the effectiveness and transparency of the election program of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the state is making efforts to ensure environmental safety, improve the health system and the quality of medical care.
annually funds are allocated from the local budget for lending to rural entrepreneurs of the region.
celebrating the first anniversary of the union, they complement the series "unforgettable and anniversary dates," the flag of Kazakhstan and the symbols of Eurasia against the background of a white horde, the national company said.
it was hard in the war, we endured, but we knew that our victory was ours, "said M. Gribanov.
20.4 billion tenge was spent on housing construction.
The main topic of the negotiations was the official visit of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban to the capital scheduled for spring this year, which will give a great impetus to the deepening of relations in the fields of economy, trade, investment.
Yuukuchinskaya noted that Kazakhstanis made their choice in connection with today's president.
For example, the army has companies for the production of structural materials and shoes.
During the meeting issues of development of mass sports in the country, including involvement of the younger generation in sports, were discussed.
their pension is calculated based on the length of service and the means of the then support, "said S. Zhakupova.
medals are awarded in schools, colleges, higher educational institutions of the city, as well as state institutions.
18 streets with a length of 9.6 km were reconstructed in the Khromtau single-industry town, 318.0 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, in 2015 it is planned to continue these work.
in many ways, we receive goods from the countries of the customs union and third states, so it is primarily important for us to protect our market.
Kelimbets also noted that each bank should not exceed this norm.
students of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi noted the importance of mobilizing efforts for the successful implementation of the message of the head of state and the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
also as part of the echelon that arrived in the capital, contract service personnel and cadets of military educational institutions.
Tokayev also familiarized the delegation of the CIS countries with the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program, the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, drew the attention of parliamentarians to the content of five institutional reforms announced by the head of state n.nazarbayev.
it is planned to hold an exhibition of paintings of the Kazakh Khanate, a competition of yurt samples of nomadic ethnography and culture of Kazakhs, an information and educational program on the history of the Kazakh Khanate, and a youth forum "internship history."
numerous charity events were held in the city. the city held many charity events .
In addition, the plant is engaged in the repair of aircraft engines.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, a bill proposed by the "civil alliance of Kazakhstan" was discussed during the meeting, providing for the introduction of a new type of funding for non-governmental organizations in the form of state grants and remuneration.
The forum will be attended by more than three 3,000 delegates from 90 countries. the forum will be attended by over three thousand delegates from 90 countries .
It is reported that work is underway in the region with disabled and single elderly people.
The parties noted with satisfaction that the agreements reached are aimed at strengthening cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the two states and making a great contribution to the protection of constitutional rights and the legitimate interests of citizens of Kazakhstan and Monaco.
issues of upgrading the status of staff members, changes in the criteria for assessing the performance of employees and law enforcement agencies were also considered.
at the meeting of the committee, the draft law "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the protection of children from information harmful to their health and development" was also considered in the first reading.
On April 15, 2015, First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan sagintayev held a conference call on events related to floods in the region and measures taken against them. on april 15 , 2015 , first deputy prime minister bakhytzhan sagintayev held the conference call on the flood situation in the regions and taken measures .
the subsoil of the East Kazakhstan region is rich in ore wealth, "the report said.
this will create three thousand jobs.
Last year, more than 2 billion tenge was allocated to participants of credit partnerships and more than 10 thousand kim were purchased.
including civil servants, public sector workers, the military, large families, families and young families raising disabled children, "the chairman of the board concluded.
During the meeting, prospects for the development of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres were also discussed.
Recently, negotiations between representatives of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the General Staff and structural units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan have ended in the capital.
a youth show program was held on stage under the motto "We, voting in the elections, showed an active civic attitude."
According to the director of the department, an important project in strengthening the energy system of Kazakhstan is the linking of the Pavlodar energy network with the unified energy system of the country.
we face great challenges, one of which is the development of a runaway mine and other blocks in which the company operates. we are facing great tasks , the most important of them is the development of kashagan field and other blocks where the company operates .
Note that these roads are part of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor.
The event was opened by Austrian Federal President Heinz Fischer.
According to him, a feature of this parade is the involvement of the equipment of the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the armed forces of the internal troops and the state security service.
According to him, the priority areas of cooperation are the implementation of joint projects in the field of renewable energy sources, the use of German seaworths on the Baltic Sea coast and the possibilities of transport infrastructure.
that is, we can no longer interfere with many standards, since the import duty will decrease, and you need to be ready for this.
at the same time, a ticket to cross the state border for proof.
According to eek, the meeting participants considered the creation of the council relevant with effective phytosanitary quarantine of plants in foreign and mutual trade.
The relevance of the development of the urban transport system will be very important in connection with the upcoming international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017. the relevance of the transport system of the city is of great importance in connection with the forthcoming international specialized exhibition expo-2017 .
among the guests of honor are the second president of the Karlhainz Kopf national council, who headed a group of deputies of the Austrian parliament, the vice minister of transport, innovation and technology of Austria andreas reichard and other top officials.
its goal is to give impetus to long-term goods and economic relations in the field of culture, science, technology and nuclear energy.
The purpose of the action is to promote the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," voiced in the message of the head of state, organize cultural and social events, support entrepreneurship and agriculture.
The Iranian politician expressed support for the capital's desire to develop active ties between the parliaments and business circles of the two countries.
the very application of the life button is a lightweight device.
According to him, the theme of the national pavilion is called "Kazakhstan-country of opportunities," and it moved to 3000 square meters.
polling stations in Tokyo and Seoul completed work at 17-00 o'clock in Astana time, polling stations in Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Urumqi, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Ulan Batyr completed their work.	due to the time difference , he said , the first polling stations opened in tokyo and seoul at 3 am , astana time , and the last started working at 16.00 pm in washington , new york .	0,95
we look with confidence at the overall future of our strategic relationship.
the word innovator should be in all lips. the word " innovator " should be on everyone 's lips .
The natural population growth was 3160 people, "the report said.
The head of state drew attention to the tasks of the head of state, voiced at the inauguration ceremony.
if the main trade turnover decreases from the Russian Federation, then if we take individual products, such as pipes, transformers, construction materials, petrochemical products, our country for the first time gets the opportunity to export.
In the XVIII century, this area was rapidly developing.
the number of employed persons (for permanent and temporary jobs) increased from 2013 thousand in 10 years to 2014 thousand in 17 years.
Baigan, Irgiz, Kobda, Martuk, Iron, Wila and Shalkar districts provided 100% coverage for children aged 3 to 6 years.
During the project, more than 10 thousand jobs will be created, and the investment volume will exceed $900 million.
the volume of goods sold by trading enterprises of legal entities increased by 13.4% and amounted to 206.9 billion tenge.
your concern and support for youth is directly related to the future of our country, "the authors write.
thanks to your policy, we live together, and the country becomes a successful state.
its goal is to study the main stages of the development of children's literature in Kazakhstan and determine the features of development.
170 units of agricultural equipment were purchased, of which 95 were leased through kazagrofinance, "75 were peasant farms themselves," Nurymbetov said.
in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan, citizens of all regions of the republic took part in the elections. in all regions of the country citizens actively participated in the elections .
Assistant to the President of the working group on the creation of a professional state apparatus, the working group on the rule of law is the Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the working group on the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the working group on homogeneity and unity. The working group on the formation of an accountable state will be headed by the deputy chairman of the Majilis of Parliament.
in conclusion, the participants of the meeting noted that the election campaign is taking place in a civilized and appropriate manner, which indicates the well-organized preparation and desire of Kazakhstan to hold open, transparent and democratic elections.
it is here that interactive seminars on the prevention of sick risks are held, "he concluded.
dry port "chorgos - east gate."
Following the meeting, a preliminary agreement was concluded on financing the modernization of the Kostanay Energy Company and the Kostanay Water Institutions of the Regional Center.
The purpose of the bill is to promote and strengthen long-term cooperation between the state and the private sector, "said Kusainov.
During the trip, B.Saparbayev inspected the renovated memorial complex "Korkyt ata" and got acquainted with the activities of specialized PSCs located in the Kyzylorda city.
The participants of the meeting discussed the prospects of cooperation on a wide range of issues of social and humanitarian development of the country in the framework of fulfilling the tasks of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the new economic policy "Nұr the way to the future."
this is a shameless mound, ancient archaeological sites of the 14th-16th century, ancient Taraz monuments, etc.
foreign observers noted the active voting of citizens on election day, including youth, democratic elections in Kazakhstan, compliance with international standards.
zones are distributed according to economic potential and geographical location, and each region has its own specificity. regions are different , economic potential , geographical location , and each region - has its own specifics , but there are common issues to be sold .
17 million euros were raised for its construction (1 euro = 203 tenge), about 200 jobs were created.
According to the head of state, we must stimulate innovation and science within the country.
The Commissioner General of the national pavilion at the exro exhibition expressed confidence that the signing of legislative documents on the participation of the emirates in the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition will take place in the next few months.
In general, this path can be reached to the countries of Central Asia and the Persian Gulf, Russia, the mountain zone and Europe, the Kazakhstan Railway said in a statement.
M. Sarsembayev spoke about the preparations for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, about the election procedures implemented by the precinct election commissions on April 26, and outlined the main aspects of their activities at this stage.
in particular, proposals were developed to increase the transparency of selection for the public service, introduce a qualitative assessment of the activities of public servants, develop their training and incentive system.
wishes each other well-being and solidarity.
forming Kazakhstan as an independent state, forming its economy, developing it, representing its country to the world, recognizing the world community, announcing its strategic plans recognized by the world, the scientist concluded.
as a result, the intensification of the arms race, the use of means of influence and the use of armed forces in protecting national interests, "the Foreign Minister expressed concern about the situation in the world.
The conclusion made in a brief conversation with waiting queues - the medical train "Assistance" is very popular, convenient and desirable.
This year we intend to sign two loan agreements on the development of the solid waste sector in Kyzylorda and the lighting of the city streets. this year we have a serious intention to sign two loan agreements : on the development of the sector of solid municipal waste and on development of infrastructure of street lighting in kyzylorda , " b.fayziyev said .
The German side showed special interest in improving the possibilities of active participation of German companies in the implementation of projects in the field of the "green economy" in Kazakhstan, the development of transport and logistics infrastructure and the introduction of the German dual education model.
According to preliminary data from the agricultural departments of the regions, in 2015 it is planned to sow crops on an area of ​ ​ 21.5 million hectares, which is 0.1 million hectares more than in 2014, "he said.
during this time, we recognized Kazakhstan as a peaceful, united country. during the observation we have known kazakhstan as a peaceful cohesive state .
the public in the region is confident that the work of Nursultan Nazarbayev will not compare with anything.
I've been singing in the choir for 18 years.
Recall that the state program of the head of state "Nұrly zhol" connects the capital with all regions of the country and contributes to the creation of new jobs.
economic efficiency increased, for example, in 2013 labor productivity in the processing industry increased by 57%, it was this year that each employee of the enterprise produced products by more than 20 thousand dollars.
Agreements on the main directions of interaction between the executive branch and business in the regions have been concluded with all akimats, including the akimat of Pavlodar region.
through its distribution system, the company will be able to supply products to all regions of Kazakhstan, border regions of the Russian Federation: Omsk, Dzerzhinsk, Chelyabinsk, Saransk.
According to the deputy chairman of the COP, this is an unprecedented project that has not yet been seen.
The measures are aimed at supporting socially vulnerable segments of the population, WWII veterans and large families, orphanages and other citizens, the report said.
Representatives of the government and Kazakhstani business will act as speakers.
The new anti-corruption body included party members, representatives of regional resolution commissions, deputies of maslikhats, civil servants and social activists.
The sides also expressed readiness to further expand interdepartmental relations, bring cooperation between the Kazakh and Kazakh legal systems to a high level.
As of March 26 of this year, at the expense of the first tranche, 9 commercial banks approved 15 projects totaling 20.3 billion tenge.
the project is considered international.
Throughout the path, many business paths are opened.
After the competition, the white branch of Kazakhstan Rtrk will sign a memorandum with the winner of the Kazakhstan-Growth contest.
The sides expressed satisfaction with the strong partnership relations established between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in many areas of cooperation.
awarded the Order of the Patriotic War for courage during the war, a medal for the victory over Germany and other awards.
At the same time, according to preliminary forecasts, in the first 9 months of 2014, electricity generation of power facilities amounted to 383.4 million square meters.
campaign funds this year were very strong.
for Kazakhstan, elections have always been a high mechanism of unity and harmony in society.
the implementation of the national plan will bring our country to a new quality of development and will make it possible to become one of the fifty most developed countries in the world. implementation of the plan will bring the nation to a new stage of development and will allow to join top 30 developed countries of the world .
This should not be in the capital. this is an example of what should not be in the capital .
According to kaz minerals, for the fourth quarter of 2014 the group produced 24.1 thousand tons of cathode copper.
Various presentations on technologies and solutions contributing to the definition of the rule of law for the coming decade, the rule of law based on economic activity and international trade, the application of legal force essential in any prosperous and healthy society, and the global trends in international trade and the law underpinning them were presented.
at railway stations and stations, at ports and airports, "he said.
Following the meeting, the minister wished veterans good health and a long life, handed over memorable gifts.
Special attention is also paid to tourism development, the Governor's office reported.
similar meetings are held in Denisov, Feodora, Kostanay districts and Lisakovsk, as well as volunteers since January provide assistance to single veterans of the region and elderly people.
according to the theater, the concert program "Classics of All Time" includes a concert symphony by V.I. Mozart for orchestra, violin and viola mi-bemol major (q364), as well as arias, duets, scenes from operas by Kazakh, Russian and Western European composers.
and on this day the poet's poems will forever remain in the memory of the people, "the Batalov concluded.
In conclusion, the Secretary of State thanked UNESCO for contributing to such a high-level event, noting that the organization would engage in intercultural communication around the world.
we therefore meet today as a meeting.	today 's session is taking place in the form of the council .	0,95
from there the division troops went to war.	the soldiers of the division went to war from this city .	0,95
The participants of the meeting discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, primarily in the field of combating organized transnational crime and expanding the legal framework.	the participants exchanged views on a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation , especially in the fight against organized transnational crime and expansion of legal framework , prosecutor general 's office of kazakhstan informs .	0,95
According to the akimat, in 2014 gross freight traffic in the seaport of Aktau amounted to 10.3 million tons, which is 2% more than in 2013.	total volume of traffic in the aktau port amounted to 10.3 million tons , which is 2 % more than in 2013 .	0,95
in these expositions, documents, drawings and sculptures, objects of decorative and applied art form a special image of the Khanate era, making it special, "said the director of the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
on this day, even for rural business, all opportunities are created. nowadays all roads are open for rural businesses .
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to efforts aimed at supporting creative work, ensuring the well-being of citizens.
we are negotiating with four banks, such as the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian Bank and the Islamic Bank, which are already working successfully with us, "he said during an international conference that is being held as part of the discussion of the Silk Road economic belt initiative.
then we were one country, and we all fought.
the total amount of one-time material assistance will amount to 5 million 100 thousand tenge.
negotiations with Viet Nam on a free trade area.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the office of a dentist, the office of an obstetrician-gynecologist, a laboratory and a day hospital will work at the new facilities.
On the last day of the year, 224 children opened their doors here, "the report said.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War receive military congratulations, letters of thanks and memorable gifts.
By reducing imports of petroleum products, cars and spare parts, furniture, confectionery products, imports of goods decreased by 14.5%.
e. B. Bakhmutova noted that privatization will pay special attention to the economic feasibility of the fund, and the fate of unrealized companies will be decided in accordance with this principle.
During the exercises, participants consisting of military personnel of Kazakhstan, Great Britain and Northern Ireland practically worked out a picture of peacekeeping operations to identify illegal military formations and fence land, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
the site is available in the national languages ​ ​ of all member countries of the union - Armenian, Belarusian, Kazakh and Russian.
The Commissioner General of the section of the Republic of Kazakhstan anuarbek sculpture will take part in the press conference at the world exhibition Milan Expo 2015.
Lianyungang port containers are sent to Europe through Kazakhstan.
Many of the world's leading oil and gas companies are interested in this project, "said the schoolboy.
The head of gmm noted "the special importance of the issue of freedom of religion in the modern world," in connection with which he expressed his readiness to share with the participants of the congress the approaches of gmm and Malaysian leaders in this important area.
materials and devices necessary for its release are transported mainly from European countries.
As explained in the report, tariffs for the transmission and distribution of electric energy over white electric networks of the national level and over rack networks of the regional and local levels are approved by the state body managing the sphere of natural monopolies and the regulated market (committee on regulation of natural monopolies of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan).
On an area of ​ ​ 153 hectares, high residential buildings, educational and health facilities will be built, including 4 schools with 1,200 seats each, 9 kindergartens with 320 seats.
Representatives of Finnish educational institutions expressed interest in participating in the training of Kazakh specialists for the need for industrialization of the country, including construction.
An operator implementing programs related to the implementation of investment projects in agriculture.
An effective indicator of Kazakhstan's justice is the annual consideration by the courts of more than a million cases, increasing public confidence, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
in turn, b. pakhor expressed gratitude for the warm words of the President of Kazakhstan and noted that Ljubljana attaches great importance to Kazakh-Slovenian relations.
At the same time, the remuneration rate, taking into account subsidies under the Agribusiness 2020 program, will be 6.4%.
At the round table with the participation of Dutch companies and other representatives, such as shell, philips, "dsm," spoke R.
budget revenues are proof, "the mayor summed up.
More than 1,500 cafes, restaurants, shopping centers, fashion shops, bank branches, higher education institutions posted 10 calendars in their regions of activity that reminded of the upcoming elections.
As part of the conference, information and videos were presented on the opportunities for the wide development of Kazakh-Vietnamese relations in the trade, economic and investment spheres.
Providing online access to statistical databases of central government agencies.
Members of the Association of Financiers of Kazakhstan noted that the holding of elections will ensure the continuity of economic and monetary policy, give confidence to investors, and intensify business activity in the country.
Work to identify Kazakhstani soldiers who died during the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945 in Finland, as part of the implementation of the plan of measures for the preparation and celebration in Kazakhstan of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, was carried out at the request of the Kazakh diplomatic mission in Helsinki with the archive of Finland.
in particular, the program provides for a number of main measures, "said Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev.
In this regard, it is necessary to centralize the state and producers of products so that their connection is widely informed. in this regard , it is important to centralize and make more informative interaction of the state and producers .
During three days, more than 600 veterans of the Great Patriotic War, their widows and home front workers and persons equated to them from the hands of deputy akim of the Zerendinsky district received badges for the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
scientific work of cadets contributes to the improvement of the quality of training of officers, the development of creative thought, the main skills of independent scientific research during military service.
interlocutors expressed interest in strengthening cooperation in the judicial system.
If from 2003 to 2009 about 180 innovative projects were supported, then from 2010 to 2014 more than 580 projects were supported, "the report said.
we are confident that today each of us will be able to show our potential, knowledge, our bold ideas, "the appeal emphasizes.
The event was attended by representatives of public service centers, the city chancellery and specialized courts, inspectors.
The construction of the plant is part of the programs "State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "Industrialization Map."
successful implementation of this plan will allow not only to counter threats and crisis, but also to become one of the 30 most developed countries of our country by 2050, "said the Speaker of the Majilis.
Observers take part in all meetings of the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where training seminars organized for members of territorial and precinct election commissions are held.
To resolve these issues, the master plan for the development of the ant-processing industry until 2020 provides for the opening of 212 milk reception points.
the national historical consciousness itself is also aimed at the formation of the national unity of Kazakhstan. the leader of the nation offers a historical form based on the concept of the new kazakhstan patriotism .
For two months of this year, Kazles Company LLP produced 341 cubic meters of wood worth 26 million tenge using new technologies.
To date, 3100 bags and 110 tons of inert material have been delivered, "said R. Imankulov.
today Kazakhstanis are the economic leaders of our region.
this will increase the coverage of citizens, increase the number of consideration of topical issues, inform about the activities of state bodies, the work of the parliamentary faction and the anti-crisis measures taken by the state.
all necessary conditions have been created for this.
Recall that at the last world forum he became the world champion.
their desire.
According to him, the reform of the head of state on the formation of the rule of law gives equal rights and opportunities to all Kazakhstanis.
Kazakhstan "feed the planet.
The naval forces of Kazakhstan are entrusted with a very important state task, "the report said.
always get to the anniversary, "said T. Kasymzhanov.
In addition, during the seminar, a wide range of negotiations took place on specific sectors: agriculture, biofuel production, alternative energy sources, energy, medicine.
special attention in the region is paid to strengthening inter-ethnic harmony, promoting the spiritual wealth and culture of the people of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the results of scientific research by scientists of the Center for Life Sciences and Nuris should be effectively used for the benefit of the country, for its development and recovery of the population.
In addition, the NPP plans to involve regional branches in this direction.
these values ​ ​ strengthen the state, and a strong state is of interest to the entire world community, "said the deputy of the National Assembly of the Serbian Republic.
The program prioritizes increasing export and transit logistics potential.
Water pumping work continues in settlements.
During the event, international participants were informed about the modern directions of development of the capital and the achievements of the young capital, which are the heart and pride of Kazakhstan.
Tokayev drew attention to the tasks set for Kazakhstanis in the message of the head of state "nұrly zhol" and noted that the new economic policy is directly related to the implementation of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050.
It should be noted that according to the message of the President of Kazakhstan "Nrla zhol" in the region projects on development of transport infrastructure which positively influence economy are planned.
Participants of the meeting also discuss the use of information technologies in the election campaign, international experience of the electoral process, the role of social networks.
The agreement will be the main document of social partnership, establishing priority areas in such areas as employment, increasing productivity, social security and social partnership.
Aitzhana Abenova, the driver of the Tentek mine in Shakhtinsk, spoke about the contribution of the coal department to the socio-economic development of the Arselormittal temirtau company in the Karaganda region.
military signalmen - fighters of the invisible front.
The meeting was attended by the Director of the Institute of the General Prosecutor's Office of Almaty, the Prosecutor of Almaty and employees of the structural divisions of the Prosecutor's Office of Almaty.
On Saturday, streets, courtyards, parks and squares, embankments and aryks will be cleared.
this line passes through four regions of Kazakhstan and connects the east, center and west of the country with the shortest path.
By the end of this year, we will fully provide children with kindergartens and bring them to 100%, "said the head of the region.
Eurasian integration is an instrument that can replenish the economic composition of Shu, "K. Makimov said.
as part of parliamentary events, the final ceremony of the "Relay of Memories" action will be held.
at the same time, according to the Department of Internal Policy, infrastructure delivery amounted to 1.74 billion tenge.
this is a clear expression of the unity of a multinational state, "said D. Mesentsev.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted the results of the fruitful work of all bilateral expert platforms "Kazakhstan-eo" over the past period.
Colonel General with. Zhasuzakov checked the organization of training on combat training, the state of weapons and military equipment, the educational and material base and the infrastructure of military units.
The new form of the certificate contains information on the state of the depositor's pension savings, the movement of funds in an individual pension account, the receipt of pension contributions, the implementation of pension payments, as well as investment income.
It discussed some issues related to the timing of the project for the production of diesel engines, as well as the plans of the joint-stock company Lokomotiv Zavod for 2015-2016.
innovation must be introduced everywhere. word - innovator should be on everyone 's lips .
comparing the figures, over the past five years there has been a decrease in youth unemployment by 2 times, Kazakhstan ranks 27th in the youth development index with the participation of 170 countries.
Here, along with the modern appearance of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the army and types of weapons will be presented during the Great Patriotic War.
we have many creators, but we do not attach importance to them.
in addition, the national chamber of entrepreneurs plans to implement projects "business adviser," "business order" and "business roadmap 2020."
today the world is undergoing a difficult transformation, and, unfortunately, the countries of the world cannot yet withstand this new criticism.	currently the world is undergoing a serious transformation and unfortunately countries are not yet able to overcome these new challenges .	0,95
a plastic "care" card is issued to everyone assisted.
At the same time, according to the expert, changing the conditions of the world economy can benefit the Kazakh economy.
at an expanded government meeting with the participation of the head of state, it was instructed to take specific economic measures, including in the field of oath. the specific economic measures for the current year , including in the sphere of agriculture have been identified at the enlarged meeting of the government with the participation of the president .
therefore, I give you these awards for impeccable service, "said the leader of the nation.
the countries that were part of the Soviet Union were to participate in this project.
The terms of this programme provide for the extension of the advance payment for a period of 7 years until 15 November 2015, with a delay of 10 per cent.
at the same time, the bill introduced norms clarifying the powers of state administration bodies in the field of water supply, regulated the rights and obligations of water users and organizations for water supply and sanitation, "said Akimov, a member of the committee on agrarian issues, environmental management and rural development.
the garden daily informed about its election campaign. every day the media informs citizens about the election campaign of each candidate .
According to S. Kulagin, these priority areas will include the development of roads of the Schuchinsk-Borsk zone, the development of suburban roads of the capital, roads of the regional center, the regional center and the city of stepnogorsk.
The competition was attended by more than 200 public museum and museum types, cultural organizations, independent education, sports, children's, youth, veteran public structures, national cultural centers, all willing founders of public museums.
Thus, we will use the personnel potential and powerful devices of the region as effectively as possible, "he said.
A quota is developed annually by the Ministry to preserve the national labour market.
Recall that earlier the head of state attended the festive event "March - nұrly Zhol."
the special purpose unit of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan took third place at the stage of the most basic and complex "royal test."
This year, during the construction of these industries, investors will create at least 1,500 jobs and next year - about 6,000. this year private investors will create not less than 1500 jobs , and near 6 thousand - next year , " the head of almaty city reported .
495 people were prosecuted for committing petty crimes, 49 of them were brought to administrative responsibility, 446 were fined.
Including, improving the culture of the village, improvement is one of the main tasks, "said the head of the region.
Business relations between Kazagro and the World Bank will continue to establish mutually beneficial partnerships.
The Head of State thanked a.sain and a.shaueyev. and wished them success.
the bill provides for mechanisms for transferring state assets to a competitive environment, the tasks of withdrawing the state from companies created on the basis of public-private partnerships, as well as the introduction of restrictions on the creation of state enterprises.
Mladen Ivanich expressed satisfaction with the relations between the two countries, but drew attention to the need to deepen work to strengthen the trade, economic, investment and legal framework.
the main wealth of your country is people, education, generations, education and culture.
the ask works as a contractor for rural construction.
We are confident that the foundation of sovereignty achieved by the strong-willed work of the ancestors is strong and solid, "Denisenko concluded.
this means that the citizens of the city take care of their city and are not indifferent to the environment, for which I am grateful to all the townspeople, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
During the retreat, the Mayor instructed the Department of Education to take into account the issues of improving the infrastructure of educational institutions and the quality of education.
According to the national company Astana Expo-2017, to date, agreements have been concluded with the general contractors of the exhibition and commodity producers of Karaganda, Pavlodar, South Kazakhstan regions in the amount of 3 billion tenge.
you have ensured peace, harmony and stability in a multinational country, which is obvious to the whole world.
We will go to the 12-year branch, which, as the head of state instructed, will be carried out within the framework of 11-year education and provides for one year of preschool training, "the head of Kazakhstan said.
employees of the institution thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his attention to the development of health care, noting that working in such a unique complex is a great honor and responsibility.
As of March 1 of this year, as part of the thematic action "70 days before victory," about 700 events were held in the region with the participation of 24 thousand people.
According to kazinform news agency, during the meeting, council members unanimously supported the proposal of citizens to hold early presidential elections.
In addition, he noted that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan restored 112 sections of roads.
these are values ​ ​ of purity and work, tolerance.
representatives of the two countries will discuss the results of military cooperation between the two countries over the past year and consider ways to further develop it, the Ministry of Defense said.
ensuring international transport accessibility of the financial centre.
Victory in the Great Patriotic War came to us with countless tribulations and sacrifices.
At the 2nd stage of training at the Almaty International Airport, the kazemercom rescue squad conducts the border and customs process and measures to fill out the necessary documents, as well as the delivery of personnel, vehicles and equipment to the territory of the emergency with loading on an IL-76 aircraft.
In this regard, there is a corresponding memorandum between the Zhambyl region and the Shansi province, "the statement said.
Within the framework of the message, we have reached an agreement on concrete attention to this issue, its detailed study and the development of an algorithm to counter new threats that threaten our region.
I saw and admired young people.
In addition, in 2014, the akimat received 6194 applications and statements on behalf of citizens, which is 18.4% higher than in 2013.
The head of state also noted that the uniting power of the national idea "The m g_l_k ate" is a diligence, purity, aspiration to training, uniformity of citizens on all such concepts as cultural society, the tolerant state.
the text of the law is published in the press.
among them are direct lending, loan guarantees, export insurance, pre-export financing, innovative grants.
Since Kazakhstan is a country with a market economy, we set the main goal so that half of domestic products are produced by business.
It is noted that currently electric networks, production and technical buildings and social facilities are being built at stations and posts.
Holding events in the park will be favorable, "the report said.
on the one hand, the idea of ​ ​ pan-Islamism, on the other - pan-Turkism, and on the third - the advantage of Western civilization, freedom and democracy.
The main issue was the early presidential election, which will be held on April 26.
today we stand on the side of stability and tomorrow.
In addition, medical tourism is well developed in the national scientific medical center.
The parties discussed the priorities of the main economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the training, junior specialists increase their combat skills and professionalism, as well as gain new experience in operating and working with equipment.
According to him, the election campaign will be provided with all the necessary means, as well as in accordance with the requirements for information.
all Kazakhstanis of peace, harmony, cooperation, tranquillity.
his work was one of the hardest.
Natural population growth in January-December 2014 amounted to 20,630 people, migration growth - 17,920 people.
The 2015 bala turkvizyon contest is a great way to show your talent to the world.
According to the Foreign Ministry, during the visit, representatives of the delegation met with the Chancellor of the Lithuanian Government Alminas Machiulis, the Minister of Environmental Protection, responsible for participating in Expo 2017, and the Minister of Transport and Communications Rockas Masiulis.
35 of 43 sites were restored in Akmola region.
in the most difficult times, under your leadership we went through a difficult stage in the formation of the economy and industry of a young state. in the most difficult times under your leadership we passed a difficult period of the industry and economy 's formation of our young state .
today, the tasks of this kitchen include radiation, chemical and special biological exploration, decontamination, degassing, disinfection of weapons, clothing, and terrain.
To increase the competitiveness of the Kazakh economy, institutional and structural reforms of the business situation in the country will be accelerated. besides institutional and structural reforms , further improve the investment climate and providing sectoral investment preferences for the priority sectors of the economy and the implementation of the program of tariff policy together with the ebrd , " he said .
This step can also be used to modernize production.
the German side expressed interest in participating in Expo 2017 in the capital and proposed to hold a joint economic forum in Munich this year on the opportunities of Bavarian firms in Kazakhstan, "the ministry said.
A. Vinokurov spoke about the success of the team, as well as about the growing interest in the "turmat" competition at the initiative of the International Union of Cyclists.
A special headquarters has been established to deal with issues arising from the opening of the border. an operational headquarters for the withdrawal of all issues arising at the opening of the border was created .
not only actors, but also leading actors of the Youth Theater of Astana, artists of the State Academic Russian Theater named after M. Gorky, the Korean State Republican Theater of Musical Comedy and the Uighur State Republican Theater of Musical Comedy named after Kumazhyarov.
this will have a favorable effect on increasing exports, increasing the speed of labor resources, creating new jobs, "he added.
And this year, the launch of the Kazakhstan territory of the Western Europe-Western China transport highway will again open up new opportunities.
According to him, with the provided funds it is planned to green the Hall of Fame of the city of Kokshetau, reconstruct the city park, cover events in this direction and along the streets of Victory, Abay, Satpaev, Naberezhnye.
At the same time, in order to ensure the growing demand for electricity in the south of Kazakhstan, as well as increase the reliability of Kazakhstan's activities, it should be noted that in 2014 kegoc launched a 500 sq north-east-south transit project with a length of more than 1,500 km.
He also intends to become a bilateral partner in the forecast and sale of income, public procurement, accounting, financial reporting, audit activities and other industries.
The commemorative event is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, the 26th anniversary of the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, the 15th anniversary of the airmobile troops of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 85th anniversary of the airborne assault brigade.
A large share of the investment was spent by privately owned enterprises, accounting for 55.2 per cent of the total.
Including water margins, such as sudak, sudak, sturgeon, are in demand.
As part of the agreement on the EAEU, we considered only the export of funded pension. under the eaec treaty we consider only the cumulative export of pensions .
By the end of 2016, the number of staff in various specialties will reach 600 people.
Today, according to the judge, Kazakhstan has a positive practice of specifying the activities of juvenile courts.
fully restored electrical and telephone communication.
We make sure that English is taught from the first grade, all subjects in grades 11-12 we must teach in English. let 's study english from the first grade , and in the 11-12 class all items must be in english .
the state provides support to domestic producers. the government continues to support domestic producers .
In 2014, more than 33 thousand people were registered with the new service of the "mobile government," more than two thousand people with disabilities visited public services houses.
Between 2011 and 2014, the number of scientific publications increased 3 times, from 984 to 2,783, "he said.
Shkeev spoke about measures aimed at reducing costs, including the termination of a number of investment projects of strategic importance.
in the Northern region, the value was 90.9 thousand tenge, which is 41.2% lower than the national average.
Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of the Great Patriotic War. Nazarbayev.
On behalf of the personnel, I express my gratitude to the veteran who fought for the calm and peace of our Motherland, "said the head of the aktobe of the maksudhan ablazimov region.
On the same day, the majilismen are invited to set deadlines for preparing a conclusion on amending the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Road Traffic" and continue work on the bill "On Plant Quarantine."
the agreement is basic and comprehensive and is aimed at further development and deepening of comprehensive partnership and economic ties between the EAEU countries and China.
the philosophy of these programs became the basis of the plot. the philosophy of these programs formed the basis of the picture .
I am an honorary citizen of the Amangelda district of the Kostanay region.
The forum was attended by more than 100 representatives of official and business circles of Baden-Württemberg, who discussed the most relevant areas of bilateral cooperation, such as food and manufacturing, renewable energy, logistics and transport.
Negotiations on the World Trade Organization will also be completed in the near future. i also hope negotiations on the world trade organization will be completed .
Rudolph's party will feature the leading singer of the Astana Opera Theater medet Chotabaev (tenor).
Over 5 years, 28 sectors appeared, more than one billion tenge was invested in the manufacturing industry. for five years , there are 28 sectors appeared .
such a term appeared in the world, as you know, Kazakhstan's economic miracle, however, we did a lot of work in a short time, many states overcame the path in 100 years. there is a term " kazakhstan 's economic miracle " appeared in the world , indeed , for 20 years we have done as much , as many states could do only for 100 years .
The holding without any effort mastered the peak of repayments for repayment of debt obligations this year, which became a high example of cooperation between Kazagro Holding and international investors, which corresponds to measures to implement the program for the development of agribusiness 2020 for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020.
The purpose of the trip is 2017-2018. promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, as well as discussion of the current state and prospects for inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries, the Foreign Ministry said.
Investors coming to Kazakhstan first of all pay attention to the stability of the country. investors firstly think about the country 's stability .
we are a country located in the center of Eurasia. kazakhstan is the heart of eurasia .
The volume of production of small and medium-sized businesses is 356.3 billion tenge, and the number of employees in this area is 135.9 thousand people.
this is the result of an effective dialogue between the leaders of Kazakhstan and China.
The Chinese Ambassador noted that Kazakh-Chinese relations are developing and have reached the highest level in the history of their development.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, during the negotiations, the leadership of icmp dinatron showed interest in the restoration, development and launch of the Irtysh Chemical and Metallurgical Plant.
We also relied on the participation of other parties in the elections, "said the director of the institute.
this will allow the regulation of different electricity rates between regions.
in addition, Ivan Kosenkov was awarded the Order of the Golden Star, orders of World War I and II degrees, orders named after Marshal of the Soviet Union G. Zhukov.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev met with representatives of ethnocultural associations, intellectuals and veterans of the Afghan war during a working trip to the West Kazakhstan region in the Palace of Celebrations.
The head of the Senate drew the attention of the Czech ambassador to plans to create an international financial center in the capital, based on the principles of English law, a simplified tax regime and an independent financial court.
father told children and grandchildren a lot about the war. my grandfather told children and grandchildren a lot about the war .
In addition, the delegation plans to visit the capital before the end of the week to get acquainted with the country's agricultural industry and find new trading partners.
at the end, the President of Egypt wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, and the Kazakh people - peace and well-being.
According to him, the majority of Kazakhstanis made their choice, which is closely connected with the process of formation of civil and democratic society in Kazakhstan.
Let veterans walk quietly and for a long time among us, serve as an example to the younger generation with moral, moral principles.
Kazakhstan is forced to do this, a lot of institutional, legislative and technological work has been done to this end, "the Minister of Energy said.
In addition, according to the director of the republican state enterprise Kazkosmos, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan is developing a three-year plan for the restoration of monuments for 2017-2019.
A UN report on e-government development in Russian was also presented.
The head of the region congratulated all participants in the meeting on the upcoming festive holidays.
therefore, in order to strictly observe the basic law in the interests of the people, taking into account their will, universal will, I decided in accordance with paragraph 3.1 of article 41 of the Constitution and on April 26, 2015 signed a decree establishing early presidential elections.
Nevertheless, the status of the Kazakh people, who have all the new shelters, which harbors sovereignty, is always high, confident in our independence, "he said.
This is the right decision of the head of state, who always pays special attention to the social sphere.
the information system will be developed in order to quickly consider citizens' appeals, camera control and reduce human factors during procurement of the studied sample, as well as to create a unified information and methodological environment for consumers, "said the aliakpar of mothers.
children's entertainment center will be covered by attractions, a cinema.
they discussed the potential of trade, economic and cultural partnership.
The event is organized by the Federation of National Clubs of Kazakhstan.
partners exchanged views on the most relevant issues on the international agenda.	the two sides exchanged views on the topical issues on the international agenda .	0,96
including the moral and psychological support of the katarbrigada in battle, the organization of work to maintain law and military discipline, the preservation of the rights and guarantees of military personnel, defense, mutual assistance, the education of personnel in a state of psychological strength, as well as the organization of a center for psychological assistance and the conduct of psychological rehabilitation of military personnel.	in addition , questions have been worked out moral and psychological support teams in action , organization of work for the maintenance of law and order and military discipline , respect for the rights and guarantees of servicemen resistance training of personnel in terms of defense , mutual assistance , psychological stability , as well as work on the organization of the center of psychological care and activities of psychological rehabilitation of servicemen .	0,96
Today, Kazakhstan can become a reliable partner in the transportation of goods from China to Europe, from Asia to Russia.
According to him, from tomorrow the reception of applications will begin and end on September 15.
The volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 254 billion tenge and increased by 3%, "said A. Smailov.
The draft law on amendments and additions to the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been developed in order to bring into line with the world base issues related to the youth policy "On State Youth Policy."
In the selection of subjects, priority are given to entities that actively interact with financial organizations, "he said.
The head of state held a telephone conversation with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban.
In accordance with the calendar of the main measures for the preparation and conduct of early presidential elections, approved by the decision of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 26.02.2015 year No. 5/262, today the election campaign has begun, which will end at 24 o'clock on April 2015 24.
- development of proposals for introduction of modern diagnostics and therapy of socially significant diseases into clinical practice in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
gross regional product grew by about 3%.
I am sure that the congress will contribute to the adoption of the right directions and decisions on the further development and improvement of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan, "concluded B. Sagintayev.
To date, entrepreneurs have submitted more than 200 applications for participation in the program.
If it is necessary to transport them by the Committee in order to create unrelated transplants, bone marrow, as well as cells, tissues, biological fluids and secrets, including human life products intended for diagnostic purposes or obtained during biomedical research, physiological and pathological released substances, smears, granules, 2 conclusions (permits) for import into Kazakhstan and export of flushes from the republic.
population growth and new production policies predict an increase in demand for infrastructure in the near future. population growth and new industrial policy says that the infrastructure demand will be increased in the near future .
does not hide, they are completely isolated, and tens of thousands of Almaty residents in this area find their ass.
In addition, during the meeting, the deputy akim of the region elaborated on the forecasts of economic and social development of the region, measures taken to implement the strategic document.
as part of a visit with the political leadership and business circles of the federal state, in particular, the head of the land, M. Walner, president of the land parliament. probereger, president of the association of industrialists x. birch and president of the economic chamber.
Kazakhstan is preparing for EXPO-2017, construction work is underway. kazakhstan is preparing for expo - 2017 .
now we have reached the second five-year plan.
Of course, this was achieved when launching new energy facilities.
At the request of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the World Bank has done a great deal of work in analysing the outcome of the first five-year at the request of the government of the republic of kazakhstan , the world bank analyzed the results of the first five-year plan .
According to preliminary data, the average per capita nominal cash income of the population in December 2014 amounted to 72,201 tenge and increased by 10.2% compared to the corresponding period of 2013. per capita nominal income of the population in december 2014 , according to the preliminary data , amounted to 72,201 tenge , having increased by 10.2 % compared to the same period in 2013 .
For 3 months, 8040 apartments were commissioned, 8092 private houses were commissioned.
According to A. Mukhamediula, the national council will become the main advisory body in conducting the cultural policy of Kazakhstan.
in the future, I will develop my business and grow sheep under the "rush" program.
Thus, voting takes place in other countries where our military personnel are located.
I want to thank those who showed good results in school, were an activist in school life. i want to express my gratitude to graduates , which showed good results in their studies , they were very active .
love for the motherland means putting the interests of the country above their own, that is, doing everything possible for their country. love for the motherland occurs when you put its interests above your own , when you wish to do everything possible for your country .
Kazakh and Russian experts analyzed the formation of electoral legislation in Kazakhstan. experts from russia and kazakhstan analyzed the electoral legislation of the republic of kazakhstan .
This year, about 160 thousand children from low-income families received assistance in the amount of 600 million tenge, including about 100 thousand children through sponsors - in the amount of 250 million tenge.
Investment subsidies introduced in 2014 made it possible to increase the volume of investments in fixed assets of agriculture by 14.4% and by the end of the year amounted to 166.4 billion tenge.	last year the introduction of the investment subsidy increased the investment in fixed capital in agriculture by 14.4 % , it was 166.4 billion tenge .	0,96
Participants of the event were informed that such items as a light bulb, socket, nylon, X-ray apparatus will be presented for the first time in the departments of the expo exhibition, the report said.
there is really no other alternative to this initiative.
This is the third kindergarten that opens under the Balapan program, "said akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev at the opening ceremony of the preschool institution.
The eternal memorial action will not only unite representatives of several generations of Kazakhstanis, but also recognize the modern servicemen and relatives of the victims who fought on the battlefield of the Great Patriotic War, as well as the heroes of the war, their unique history and fate.
As part of the action "20 good deeds," the action "I am a donor" was held, more than 13 liters of blood were collected, "added N. Lashnikov.
In the distribution of rental social housing, priority is given to large families, incomplete families, families with or raising disabled children, orphans and children left without parental care, public servants, employees of budgetary organizations, military personnel and employees of special state bodies, oralmans. during the allotment of social rental housing the priority will be given to large families and single-parent families , families with disabled children , orphans and children without parental care , oralmans , civil servants , military personnel , members of special government bodies and employees of budgetary organizations .
In addition, 22 people were hired, of which 12 were people with disabilities.
the cluster includes a "locomotive building plant" for the production of diesel locomotives, a "tulpart-talgo" for the production of passenger cars for high-speed trains and an "electric locomotive building plant" for the production of modern electric locomotives.
This project indicates that the country's leading party takes care of families as the core of society, "said A. Makenova.
this mechanism works at full pace.
I always dreamed of being in a real army.
within a year it will be transferred to all regions of the country.
it is active, passes without violations.
The main directions of the construction of a new category 1-b road are provided for in this task.
improving the system of public administration, developing the activities of state bodies, improving the judicial system.
Currently, work is underway with the executive bodies; in the first four months of 2015, Baiterek Holding and its subsidiaries coordinated 130 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 2437 thousand square meters for waiting lists.
all students of universities in the region, activists of the youth movement.
During the visit, he will hold talks with the Chairman of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Valentin Matvienko and will speak in the Federation Council.
The total cost of the facility is $135.4 million.
Strengthening the financial sustainability of the health system on the basis of the principle of joint responsibility of the State, employer and citizen.
the committee includes three members of the board of directors, whose chairman is appointed chairman of the board of directors of samruk-kazyna karim massim.
thanks to the values ​ ​ of the eternal country, we will achieve the goals set by the head of state. "
Netembayev informed the head of the Polish Senate about a number of festive events, such as the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which is celebrated in Kazakhstan this year, the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 20th anniversary of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a woman should bring the matter to an end, "she said.
this is mainly the implementation and expansion of projects of Pavlodar and Ekibastuz open switchgears and stations. this is mainly the implementation of projects of open switchgear and substations , such as pavlodar and ekibastuz .
repeatedly awarded orders and medals for courage, including the Order of Glory of the 1st and 2nd degree.
the country has laid a solid foundation for modern Kazakh statehood, a system of opportunities for all citizens has been created, in a word, a road to a bright future has been laid, "the text of the appeal says.
As part of the Victory Day celebration, rallies, commemoration actions, literary evenings, processions, concert programs, military song festivals, and sports were held in the cities and districts of the region.
During the event, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan will tell the deputy akims about the provision of state services in the field of ticks, prospects for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the conditions of eeo and do functioning, state subsidies for the development of crop production and animal husbandry.
a. No later than April 10, they will be presented to Kazakhstanis, "said the head of the CEC.
The de facto level of public support was assigned to the current president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who recognized his status as a national leader.
Akhmetzhan smagulula Yessimov - akim of Almaty city;
At the festive event, schoolchildren sang, danced, staged scenes.
Now we must start working with the wrist, "the Prime Minister told Cabinet members.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the algae was visited by kamatai sarbupeyev, Alexander, akutin, zinekesh sakubaliyev, hasen kuspaev.
thanks to the development of health care throughout the country, the average age of life of citizens over the past ten years has increased from 64 to 71 years, "the head of state said.
a new theater building was also built, which was previously located in an old building built in the 19th century.
tomorrow we will give an accurate assessment of the elections, and today we are watching the election campaign and have witnessed the most important choice in this country, "said riccardo millori.
In this regard, the head of the region instructed to complete the construction by December 15 and thanked the company's representatives for the work done.
During the construction, about 50 people were employed.
the professor noted that today issues of children's literature and political personality of the XXI century are relevant in the political society of Kazakhstan.
indeed, we believe that the potential of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Ukraine has not yet been exhausted.
during the war years, all our people worked in the rear.
In general, the meeting discussed topical issues.
The meeting was attended by deputies of the Senate of Parliament, the Ministry of Investment and Development and the leadership of the Zhambyl region, the region's asset, representatives of joint chemical companies, heads of chemical enterprises and other interested persons.
The leaders of the two countries discussed the results of the Minsk meeting to resolve the Ukrainian crisis.
enlargement of regional energy companies (no).
Based on the expertise of five out of 9 industries, acceleration dynamics are needed. based on the analysis revealed that 5 of the 9 sectors require the significant performance improvement .
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kingdom of Sweden Dastan Sheriazdanovich eleukenov has been appointed to the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Danish Kingdom.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the day of unity. i congratulate all kazakhstanis on unity of the people of kazakhstan .
at the front, he destroyed about 300 enemy soldiers.
In this regard, the protesters sent photos from their family archives, talking about parents and acquaintances who fought on the fields of World War II in 1941-1945.
during the event, the issues of peacekeeping, the law and norms of armed conflicts, the protection of citizens during operations will be studied.
This is a symbol of warmth that allows the people of our country to unite, "said the deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan during the ceremony.
In addition, according to the director of the republican state enterprise Kazkosmos, more than 73 monuments of historical and cultural spirituality of republican significance were restored in Kazakhstan as part of the cultural heritage program adopted in 2004 at the initiative of the head of state.
starting with the implementation of this project, their number will increase by another 49.
In 2015, in order to further implement the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, it is planned to allocate 4.3 billion tenge from the republican budget.
the military unit is on alert and sent to the area of ​ ​ destination of the convoy of military equipment.	on a signal , the whole military unit is brought into combat readiness and a column of military machinery sets off to the designated area .	0,96
Aunt veteran expressed gratitude and wished future younger generations never to see the difficulties of war and peaceful life.	thanks to the soldiers and ordinary citizens , who worked our country was able to win the long war ,  - the head of the group said .
One of the key issues we agree with is the priority of electronic declaration. the main thing we agreed on is the priority of the electronic declaration .
According to the deputy of the Majilis, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is actively working on the implementation of the new economic policy "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
The participants of the event demonstrated their knowledge on the topics of "speech to the country and political discussion," "improving communicative skills."
In general, the creation of an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan is a far-sighted decision of the head of state in the history of Kazakhstan, "said Dr. Saratov.
The implementation of the project will begin by mid-April of this year.
From March 16 to May 25 of this year, mobilization groups covered 866 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 1858 times, including 12 unscheduled ones, the report said.
today we have a very good mood. today , we all have a good mood .
personnel fully completed the task. the staff coped with the task .
their business model is more efficient than safety.
the winners, in turn, say that this competition requires a lot of time and hard work.
terrorism, extremism emerged in the XX and early XXI centuries. the problem of extremism and terrorism cropped up especially in the late xx century - beginning of the xxi century .
At the same time, as Buribekov explained, the program will be introduced primarily through partner colleges.
Representatives of the Society of Armenian Masses of Kazakhstan, the Society of Dungans of Kazakhstan, the Republican Ethnocultural Center of Uighurs of Kazakhstan also made congratulations to the head of state.
He will also improve traffic and improve the environmental indicator.
in particular, the main directions of 5 institutional reforms of the head of state aimed at further transformation of the socio-political, socio-economic life of the state were explained.
peace and good always remain in our country, and the rest comes by itself, "- assured V.
we always support and support your activities aimed at strengthening the unity and harmony of our multinational people. we have always supported and will support your activities aimed at strengthening the unity and harmony of our multiethnic nation .
today, even with an increase in the number of invitations, there are no problems with joining the ranks of the National Guard of Kazakhstan. nowadays there are no problems with the manning of the national guard of kazakhstan , even with the increase of military contingent .
He also called on the spheres of business associations of the EAEU countries to actively work within the framework of a single advisory committee and with Kazakh, Belarusian and Russian business associations.
He won the Karaotkel Fair 2012 fairs, the products of which are organized under the name of the successes of the Kazakh agro-industrial complex.
in the center of the city of miners, in front of the miners' palace, for the first time is the village of "Kazakhmys," formed of five yurts, "the report said.
the Turkish president was awarded the title of professor emeritus, after which he spoke to the faculty of the university.
In June 2014 and January 2015, 14 objects were put up for sale, of which 5 were sold, 9 objects were not sold after submitting applications for participation in the auction.
in particular, B. Saparbayev drew attention to the timeliness and accessibility of emergency medical care to the population, issues of interaction between outpatient and station services, the introduction of new medical technologies and information systems into the daily practice of medical organizations.
In addition, the board members got acquainted with the experience of the metropolitan medical center "Women's Health."
Recall that one of the main directions of the state program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 is the training of highly qualified specialists and the provision of scientific and technical support in key sectors of the economy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to continue the tasks related to the improvement of the social sphere and the development of human capital.
dear compatriots!
The competition was attended by students of 5 educational institutions, such as the Kazakh-Karis College "Kwanson," the Abdullin College of Arts, Economics and Finance, Growth Construction.
The works of stage 1 were completed by November 2014.
for example, today the issue of updating the club system of Kazakhstan sports is being raised.
The Chairman of the Spanish Government, Mariano Raja, on behalf of the Government and on his own behalf, congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
the front-line soldiers were given a concert by the military orchestra of the regional command.
the newspaper is distributed throughout Turkey, as well as in diplomatic and other missions in American, European and Middle Eastern countries.
The activity of strengthening ties between the two states in Aktau is highly appreciated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan and the Embassy in Kazakhstan. activity of aktay city oriented for strengthening of relations between the two countries was highly appreciated by the foreign ministry of turkmenistan and the embassy of turkmenistan in kazakhstan .
If we consider the change in the tenge exchange rate last year, then in general the house price has decreased in dollars, "he said.
a lot of talk and talk about the war now in different ways.
negotiations with the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan.
all upgraded post offices are provided with a single electronic queue system, video surveillance and fire safety.
large investment projects in livestock were implemented, including 2 fattening sites for 6,000 heads.
Currently, when forming a modern model of a multidisciplinary world, you propose to carry out modernization in the economic, political and cultural spheres of Kazakhstani society.
total investments aimed at increasing competence are planned to reach $40 billion.
Belarus and Kazakhstan, for their part, rank third in Russia's trade balance.
Since the start of the field, more than 200 jobs have been created, 70% of the workers are residents of the Beyneu region, "the akim of Mangistau region said during the discovery of the aidarbayev alik field.
The program also provides for the introduction of a new method of cost management.
reports of the Ministries of Defense, Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as akims of Astana and Atyrau region on the work on the use and propaganda of state symbols were heard at the meeting of the commission.
the creation of the Kazakh-Canadian Business Council in the near future will contribute to the economic partnership of the two states.
monitoring on social networks covered 250 pages of more than 200 communities and opinion leaders, 30 user channels in the youtube video center, updates in the feed of current hashtags on Twitter.
Abdikalikova congratulated the Y. Oksamites on their appointment and expressed hope for the continuation of successful cooperation between Kazakhstan and Unisef.
a national accreditation certificate for the quality of health services has been obtained.
currently zhenis.kz an information portal on victory. "
In January-February 2015, housing construction increased by 14.6% and amounted to 1.3 million square meters compared to 2014.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the importance of introducing the younger generation to cycling.
this is the first ksi experience together with domestic and foreign experts. it is the first collaborative research of kisr with domestic and foreign experts .
Regarding humanitarian cooperation, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan continues to implement educational programs for representatives of Afghan youth.
some time ago, the Kyzylorda region occupied the last place in terms of socio-economic development, however, at present we are in the five previous leading regions for development.
last year, several cases were opened. we worked hard to soften the negative trends .
Mr. Zeman also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his convincing victory in the presidential election and wished him success in implementing the large-scale reforms that Kazakhstan is carrying out.
the best will receive a prize from the akim of the region, the best of which will receive the "Winner's Cup."
The Council of Women of Business Entrepreneurs is a unique platform where I will first carry out my work at the capital level. the council of business women is a unique platform conducted at astana for the first time .
The event was organized by the "Union of Chernobyl Veterans of Akmola Region" with the support of the Department of Internal Policy of the region.
We ask all Kazakhstanis to purchase their goods in such difficult times. let 's go to appeal to all citizens of kazakhstan , buy our kazakhstani goods in this difficult situation .
this is a sign of the heroism and dedication of our people in the Great Patriotic War.
The meetings and negotiations of the heads of state Nursultan Nazarbayev and Petro Poroshenko contributed to the strengthening and development of partnership between the two countries.
The Comprehensive Plan for 2012-2020 includes 88 measures, of which 13 were implemented from 2012 to 2014, the report said.
akim drew attention to their appearance.
Starting next year, access to facilities under construction in Katon pine, in Almaty region, as well as to unprecedented facilities in northern and western Kazakhstan will be significantly simplified, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
The Committee on Agrarian Issues, Environmental Management and Rural Development has become the general committee on the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Water Supply and Sanitation, Lending and Subsidizing Housing and Communal Services."
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 13.04.2015 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 1.2 million tenge.
In turn, as the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan explained, the approaches of inclusive education in Kazakhstan will be integrated in the development of new standards and educational programs.
We are glad that our work is justified and we will implement a project that is not inferior to the work of other participants, "said a member of the team of winners valeria sidorenko.
In general, this is a very important direction in the integration process, because it expands the market for our entrepreneurs.
550 of the new legal entities are registered as a limited liability partnership (hereinafter - LLP).
targeted social assistance, benefits for large and low-income persons. targeted social assistance , benefits for large and needy families shall not be applied to wealthy people .
employees of Tulpar-talgo LLP gathered at the plant and expressed support for the candidacy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in the upcoming extraordinary presidential elections.
In order to support the state policy on energy saving and improving energy efficiency of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the public chamber of energy efficiency and resource saving and the national chamber of housing and communal services and construction of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the Institute for the Development of Electricity and Energy Saving with the support of the UN Development Program in Kazakhstan in March 2015, the republican action "Energy Efficient Kazakhstan" will be initiated.
the forum discussed issues of increasing the role of prosecutors in ensuring the rule of law, improving the effectiveness of the interaction of supervisory bodies in the fight against transnational crime, and other pressing challenges in the modern world.
however, the issue of intra-union trade was a concern on many issues.
As part of the registration campaign, citizens will be enrolled in military registration, in the future the number of conscripts will be determined. during the campaign , citizens ascribed accepted for military service , and is determined by the number of future recruits .
- Development of proposals for harmonization of procurement trends between samruk-kazyna white companies;
Discussing the international situation, the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that Kazakhstan always supports the search for areas of cooperation and cooperation.
The opening ceremony was attended by representatives of the city society council, students and workers in the field of education and culture.
At the same time, the Minister noted that together with colleagues from the People's Republic of China, the countries of the Russian Federation, Central Asia, the Caucasus, Iran, Turkey, Kazakhstan needs to do a lot to make the silk road competitive marine.
The main goal of the event is to familiarize students of the lyceum of young men, students of military departments with the life and courage of our national hero, the Ministry of Defense said.
new trade enterprises for trade in environmentally friendly products are being opened in the country.
It is worth noting that the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Council, which is considered the body of the Eurasian Economic Union, is held for the first time.
the military biography of the post-war Sabyrgali Kusenov continued in the fire department of the Orda district of the West Kazakhstan region.
in addition, d. a. Batyrashev informed about strategic priorities in the development of transport and transit potential, the implementation of the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the president's message "Nұr path is the way to the future."
In addition, according to A. Yerzhanov, projects of the industrialization map have mastered the production of products that were not previously produced in Kazakhstan.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is an important event not only for the Kazakh people, but also for many states and nationalities. the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate - is markable event not only for kazakhstan , but for many people , for many states .
we listened to our opinions on these issues and expressed confidence that peace and stability will be established in these regions, "the guest said.
If our initiative is supported by others, we will only be happy about it, "said artist Vladimir Donbass.
a number of patriotic and cultural events are envisaged.
its mission is to improve the business environment, reduce barriers, improve the field of public procurement.
There are also tasks of fair development of juvenile, this is specialization and training of personnel, "he said.
As noted in the report, the most difficult stage of the competition is "athleticism. courage. overcoming the acute "obstacle course (abn).
According to him, 21.9 billion tenge was allocated to subsidize agricultural production.
The head of state launched the action "Made in Kazakhstan," which allows using domestic goods in all outlets of the country.
In addition, the regional budget is aimed at employing young specialists, building new schools and kindergartens, health care, road repairs and infrastructure, developing entrepreneurship and helping the poor.
social assistance for children for the purchase of additional medicines is provided monthly in the amount of 7.6 monthly calculated indicators (15063 tenge) in accordance with the Rules for the provision of social assistance, approval of the size and determination of the list of certain categories of needy citizens, approved by the decision of local representative bodies.
the document provides for the creation of conditions for the equality of resident banks when conducting conversion currency transactions with foreign currencies in the integrated foreign exchange market of the CIS member states, the decision of the committee on international affairs, defense and security says.
I am very happy to work with the castle blanket of the hostess ahmet yasawi. i am especially happy and proud to present the work on the blanket of khoja ahmed yasawi , which at one time had almost disappeared .
During the meeting, the Sengerbekov reported on the progress of work on the promotion of the international g-global project, and also presented the doctrine of its further implementation.
reconstruction of 3 mills in Pavlodar and Shymkent regions.
Upon arrival in the army, I was sent to study at the school of aviation mechanics, "said the veteran.
As noted by the horns, abroad they are interested in quotas of the houses of the Kha parliament, as well as the experience of covering national-cultural and other interests of society, free choice of language, education and education, measures for the development of legislative acts and technologies.
In addition, on the territory of the complex, schoolchildren met with the chairman of the aerospace committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the adviser to the Prime Minister for Aviation and Space, the cosmonaut talgat musabai and the champion of the Sydney Olympiad, the deputy of the majilis, a large shishigina.
According to him, to date, 679 subsoil users and contractors who work in Kazakhstan, 24 thousand carriers, 202 thousand procurement works have been registered in this system.
For "a significant contribution to the development of national creativity, culture, strengthening inter-ethnic harmony and social stability," 11 friendship houses of the regional scale were awarded at the forum.
he is engaged in various projects in the field of culture, art and education and joint cultural and educational events with Kazakh partners.
The Ministry of Investment and Development last year announced a competition for the best logo on the theme "Made in Kazakhstan" to support domestic entrepreneurs and domestic goods.
The organizer is the Kazakhstan Federation of National Clubs of UNESCO.
To date, according to him, a new hotel model of the fund has been developed.
According to experts, only 0.5% of Kazakhstanis are engaged in charity work, and the volume of charitable donations ranges from 300 to 400 million tenge.
Kazakhstan is an active participant in the process of international negotiations, meets the requirements of the Convention to the Agreement on Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. kazakhstan is an active participant of international negotiating process , performing its duties .
On the same day, the head of the region visited the veteran Amirzhan Sait.
The large presence of young people testifies to the democracy of the country.
the government should take measures taking into account these issues, "he said.
this indicates a high political culture of citizens.
enamel rahmon expressed sincere congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
In connection with the holding of the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital, the two countries will have additional opportunities to improve relations in the field of alternative energy sources and "clean" technologies.
the decision was drawn up by the protocol of the linguistic commission of March 16, 2015 No. 16.
"Pavana," a poem by Ernest Chosson for orchestra and violin, 25 or. Concert for orchestra and flute, c. Saint-Saens "dance of life."
a free trade system with integration associations with CIS and Serbian states. as you know , regimes of free trade of the integration association with the cis countries and serbia were unified , the general system of preferences for the developing countries is used .
in addition, this summer it is planned to open new international routes from the capital to Seoul and Tbilisi.
The council organizes and coordinates anti-corruption activities, including the convergence and coordination of national anti-corruption legislation, integration in the exchange of information, as well as strengthening mutual cooperation between the competent authorities of the States parties to the meeting.
of these, 13,730 objects worth 85.3 billion tenge were legalized.
Last year, 7.1 million pieces of young animals were sent to water by these plants.
the college trains construction and engineering specialists, on the basis of the institution there are 24 training and production workshops with a total area of ​ ​ 1200 square meters.
the same center will be built in the capital.
before the expiration of the approved contracts, the amount of subsidies will be 25.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
In general, the population voted very actively, "he said.
He also expressed confidence that the planned meetings with the Kazakh leadership during the visit of the Hungarian Prime Minister Vladimir Orban will allow "comparing the clock" in a spirit of openness and mutual understanding and will give a significant impetus to the comprehensive deepening of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary.
The President of Moldova noted that the voluntary voting of citizens of Kazakhstan and the election results are evidence of support for the reform of the Kazakh society and the integration of the republic into the world community.
Astana Economic Forum - the eighth time in history.
According to the head of the CEC, this monitoring confirms that all candidates are given equal opportunities.
Since 2007, he has been Deputy Chairman of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this company is engaged in the production of electric and thermal energy, the maintenance of power plants, electric networks and substations in Aktobe.
The capital was not chosen for nothing, because it is developing at a great pace, "said the head of the show of the German brand kare marina zamaro.
Further, at the conference call, issues of organizing and holding events dedicated to the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War were considered.
therefore, today we intend to implement projects within the framework of the Kazakh-Ukrainian interstate commission on economic cooperation.
23 spelling, 5 punctuation, 7 stylistic errors.
I am sure that by joint efforts we will be able to further strengthen and develop the friendly relations of our countries, "the telegram says.
The main goal of this work is to ensure the functioning of science for the benefit of business, "said T. Balykbaev.
During the event, the audience visited the Irtysh coast, where the "youth" children's orchestra instilled good songs.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan said that the Eaeu is created on the basis of the principles of general international law, including the principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, the political structure of the member states of the union, ensuring mutually beneficial cooperation, national interests and equality of the parties, preservation of the market economy and responsible competition.
A. Yelemesov also called for the active use of significant potential for the development of cooperation opened within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
At the same time, priority areas of bilateral trade with third countries will be taken into account, "the EEC said.
Industry funding is increasing annually.
Over the past year, 23,900 births of infants were registered, which is 3.2% more than in 2013.
Thus, within the framework of the intergovernmental council meeting, it is planned to sign the first agreement on the free trade zone between EAO and Vietnam.
special attention should be paid to the development of production, the development of agriculture and small and medium-sized businesses.
we are ready to share with you experience in this direction, and the results of this work will be presented in the near future, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
we have something that is not in any state, "said O.D.
of which 3 thousand 4 and 6-lane highways of the first degree.
construction contractor - representatives of the Bolashak-Stroy limited liability partnership.
eastern Kazakhstan is a bright margin of the country, and this is not only from the point of view of nature. east kazakhstan is a bright pearl of the country , not only in natural terms .
the first place in the team competition in international competitions was taken by the national team of Kazakhstan, the second place was taken by the Republic of Belarus, the third - by the Kyrgyz country.
such a mechanism will be implemented in the field of innovation: private partnership will have every right to private property, "said Kusainov.
The message of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "path to a bright future" defines the main directions of the country's socio-economic policy.
the viewer met us with a warm dish. the audience warmly greeted us .
Pakistan takes first place in satiristics, Bangladesh takes second place, India takes third place. according to statistics , the first place is taken by pakistan , the second - bangladesh , india - third place , as for our country , 20 observers were sent , and 6 of them were sent to western sahara and côte d ' coast and out of 122 countries we are on 106 place , " - t.mukhtarov said .
I am sure that Kazakhstanis will make the right choice, "Ch. Kazak said.
At the end of the presidential elections, a round table was held in the capital with the participation of experts - political scientists, economists, sociologists.
The people of Kazakhstan expressed strong support for the policy of the head of state aimed at the sustainable development of the country.
This project was dedicated to the spirit of the great singer of our time Elena Vasilyevna exemplary. this project is a tribute to recently deceased great contemporary singer elena obraztsova .
During the implementation of this project, we plan to create 3-4 thousand jobs only from the transport industry itself in 200 years.
It was attended by senior officials of Egyptian state bodies, public, political and cultural figures, leaders and staff of diplomatic missions of foreign states registered in Cairo, and representatives of local gardens.
We can provide a full report on the election process tomorrow, at the end of the election, "the division said during a briefing in the capital.
the number of rehabilitated in this court increased 3 times, that is, from 39 to 115, "he said.
The fair was attended by farmers of Borovichi, Zerendinsky districts and the city of Kokshetau, who presented 42 types of products.
This year, thanks to the support of the state and the Ministry of Agriculture in connection with the spring sowing campaign of funds and fuel and lubricants, the equipment is already ready, "said S. Omarov.
your activity is the key to the independence of the country and the future trust of our people, "said the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
soloists of the opera house of the capital - dina hamzina, the triumph of Muratbekov, zapakova gulzhanat, Tatyana Vicinskaya - perform works from the repertoire of the great opera singer.
In the course of the inspection, the enterprises "wage arrears in the amount of KZT6,771,209 per 78 employees for November-December 2014 were revealed.
our dream is a large and strong family with housing on its head, able to give children a good education and be confident in their future.
the bill provides for a number of procedures, considers the creation of a republican judicial chamber, their certification and the issuance of permits, "he said.
The Chairman of the Senate conveyed to Abdullah II the warm words of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The 20,000th collective of the association will always support and support initiatives aimed at the advancement and sustainable development of our Motherland. the 20000th staff of the association has always supported and will support the initiatives aimed at progress and sustainable development of our country .
as a result of the project, a high-tech enterprise will be created for the design, manufacture, assembly and testing of spacecraft. due to realization of the project the high-tech enterprise for designing , manufacturing of components , assembly and testing of the spacecraft will be created .
therefore, the state creates all conditions for the development of youth. today , all directions are open to science .
someone may not have time to harvest on time, as last year, but stay under the snow, "said the deputy minister.
In connection with the initiative of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to hold presidential elections, letters to the head of state continue to be received.
because no state whose economy is not integrated is developing.
Abdikalikova noted that over the years of sovereignty, more than 956 thousand people received Kazakh citizenship, most of which falls in recent years.
it can be headed by Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of the Russian Federation Dmitry Rogozin, "said the Secretary General.
Today in Moscow, our veterans live in the Golden Ring Hotel, tickets have been sold in advance, "he said.
During the meeting, the participants of the round table discussed a wide range of children's issues in the republic - family, education, health, orphans, children with disabilities, children deprived of their liberty, street and street children and others.
Governor of Kazakhstan Akhmetzhan Yessimov, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev and representatives of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development took part in the presentation of eco-buses.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of Nursultan Nazarbayev's initiative to hold this forum, noting that it has become an authoritative international platform for promoting a global dialogue of culture and civilization.
As the deputy akim of the region noted, the issue of training qualified specialists in the region for the development of the country's economy is on the agenda.
Also, according to him, gas production in Kazakhstan in 2014 amounted to 43.2 billion cubic meters.
a. He noted the high role of the congress, held at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan, in the development of interreligious and interreligious dialogue.
The sides discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, noting promising priority areas in the fuel and energy, agricultural, transport and communication spheres, the press service of the Majilis reports.
we must stop living with the idea that the state is obliged to help. people live with idea the state should do smoothening .
The Business Women's Council was established to increase their activity and concentration in the business sector.
simplification of procedures for legalization of property and funds.
The Memorandum of Cooperation was signed by Deputy Governor of Almaty Region and General Director of ktze-khorgos gateway LLP.
According to K. Massimov, Kazakhstan pays great attention to cooperation with Luxembourg, and also intends to continue effective cooperation in all areas.
During the event, issues of supporting charitable initiatives in the country, creating prerequisites for improving and developing this sphere at the legislative level were discussed.
Within the framework of the festival, each structural unit of the apparatus demonstrated the culture, traditions, music and national dishes of a certain ethnic group living in Kazakhstan.
Zhazir Zhylkyshiev, head of the regional department for the coordination of employment and social programs, and heads of a number of social institutions, spoke about various aspects of ensuring the socially vulnerable part of the population and the implementation of state programs.
Within the framework of international actions for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the need to continue cooperation with the Central Asian region of the EU in the areas of security, strengthening integration at the borders, drug trafficking, human trafficking, countering terrorism and extremism was noted.
we honor the memory of the victims.
In the last 20th century, the process of creating inter-ethnic ties between society and the people took place on Kazakhstan's land, "N. Nazarbayev emphasized.
The region with a population of up to 100 people - 996, 1543 zones with a population of 500 people, 505 zones with a population of 1000 people, a zone with a population of more than 1000 people - 300 local points, "he said.
development of the road network, provision of roads, railway and electric networks to Kazakhstan.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, 5 new schools with 5,075 seats and additional buildings with 1,050 seats will be built and put into operation.
each year Almaty and Kyzylorda regions experience water scarcity, which is especially complicated with a small amount of water. every year , almaty and kyzylorda regions incur a shortage of water , which is particularly felt in dry years .
By this time, the government should be ready for concrete plans for all possible conditions for the development of the situation, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Currently, there are two problems - this is what an entrepreneur spends time searching for and understanding information about norms, "he said.
I believe that we are on the right track.
Among them is the expansion of the seaport to the north, the construction of the Borzhak-Ersay railway line and the ferry complex in the port of turf.
One of those who develops production is the peasant economy "happiness."
at the expense of borrowed funds, 115 leasing agreements were concluded for the purchase of agricultural equipment, 465 borrowers were financed under the Entrepreneur program, 2800 heads of cattle were purchased, 2011.3 tons of cattle meat were purchased, as well as 1,266,7 tons of wool for subsequent processing, "the report said.
The congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, which takes place every three years in the capital, becomes a special bridge that brings peoples and countries together with different cultures and religions, "said the chairman of the Main Agency of the United Arab Emirates for Islam and Nationalities, Dr. Mohammed Salim al-Kagbi, during a meeting with the Ambassador of Kazakhstan in Abu Dhabi, Lam Sharif.
During this time, Bolashakov residents implemented more than 60 large social projects in the field of education, transfer of education, development of national culture and the state language, and the formation of expert potential.
in his welcoming speech, the soldiers wished the participants good luck, "the message said.
Funding will also be directed to the system of street parking in the capital, the report said.
The city center will organize support measures in the field of corporate governance, improving the efficiency of business processes of Kazakhstani companies.
for military exploits awarded Kazakh orders and medals, about 500 people became heroes of the Soviet Union, 110 Kazakhstanis were awarded the Order of Glory of three degrees.
"In the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the main goal is to cover every citizen of Kazakhstan," the Secretary of State said.
because this holy feeling and joy remain a historical monument for the people of the Union republics, "he said.
In total, 6,463 people were involved in flood control measures, 7,404 pieces of equipment, 154 drains and 113 swimming aids were covered.
In accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, social assistance services will be gradually transferred to a special system, he said.
We noted that the state pays special attention to the value of interethnic and interreligious harmony.
According to him, the creation of a house is primarily a good business for society.
modern, gaming rooms that meet all the requirements.
The bill defines the principles, tasks and mechanisms, goals of the state youth policy.
The head of state noted a number of commitments that will not only preserve the country's sustainable social development with the fall of the world economy, cheaper prices of raw materials and a decrease in budget revenues, but also guarantee the implementation of social programs.
you also proposed a long-term action plan in the Kazakhstan 2050 strategy.
We are proud that the fund will once again support talented children of all regions of Kazakhstan, "said the executive director of the foundation of the first president at a press conference in Almaty.
Speaking about the development of bilateral cooperation, the ambassador expressed Venezuela's interest in the experience of our country in various areas, including legislative activities.
participating in an eternal action of memory, they show respect for the heroes of a warrior and at any time demonstrate the importance of prestigious military service.
The five institutional reforms are the foundation of a new stage in the development of the national system for the protection and safeguarding of human and civil rights. five institutional reforms are the foundation of the implementation of a new stage of development of the national system of security and protection of human and civil rights .
we must all remember. we all must remember why the war started , analyze its lessons , because they are always relevant .
thanks to your constructive policy, today we unite a sense of pride in an independent Kazakhstan. thanks to your prudent policy , today all of us share a sense of pride for independent kazakhstan .
we have experience of interaction. we have experience and practice of interaction .
In 2017, we will fully welcome the Universiade in Almaty, "said the Vice Minister.
The construction of the station, which receives electricity in an environmentally friendly and clean way, was initiated by the contracting institution bas energy LLP.
During the conversation, the leaders of the two states discussed the priority areas of the Kazakh-Iranian partnership.
The region's commodity producers were granted loans for the development of agriculture in the amount of 384.0 million tenge.
The unemployment rate in Italy reached record levels, amounting to 13.4% of the working-age population. the rate of unemployment in italy has reached the historically record high , amounting to 13.4 % of the working population .
according to him, this issue is very important, so its decision needs to be accelerated.
he is also the chief freelance radiologist in Almaty.
the song evokes a high patriotic spirit, a sense of pride over our hero people, "said the Ospanov Justice Ulan.
According to him, despite the difficult weather, sowing, of course, does not stop, work continues, albeit late.
According to the mayor, to support the capital's entrepreneurs, close cooperation is needed with second-level banks, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
According to the president, domestically we must support science and innovation.
Since 2014, repair work has begun, most of the repair work of about 70 residential buildings has been completed, it is planned to repair 50 houses for the current year.
20,931 objects worth 137.0 billion tenge were legalized.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of joint organization of pre-contract work of the institutions under construction with the government.
During the discussion of topical issues, the deputies noted the need to solve the issues of providing land plots to border infrastructure facilities related to the improvement of car checkpoints (widening traffic lanes, overhaul of the road, in particular, the "raw car" checkpoint and other checkpoints in western Kazakhstan).
Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan, Vice President of Chevron, Congressman elected from Texas, organized an event with Stockman Staves and heads of American oil companies.
Delegations from China, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan will take part in the seminar.
The cost of electric energy includes the sum of further updating the power supply system: the creation of a new asset, expansion, renewal, support, reconstruction and technical re-equipment of existing power plants.
This is consistent with the statements of the head of state at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan party that Kazakhstanis need to set new universal values ​ ​ before themselves, as well as save the state's traditions from examples of ethnic identity, "the report said.
Following the meeting, a resolution was adopted in which participants expressed their readiness to further expand cooperation in order to ensure international and regional security.
Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation to exchange best practices of companies producing water treatment plants, as well as those located in the city of santa croce sul arno, rotating leather production.
we study in detail the biography of everyone, get to know each other closer, communicate with the soldiers and give them the opportunity to go through the adaptation stage, "he said.
According to the head of state, every citizen should feel responsible for peace and harmony on our land.
Participants of the action noted importance of continuation of new initiatives within the program "Nrla zhol" and creative policy.
labor leaders, war and labor veterans.
military units of the armed forces of Kazakhstan continue to be replenished with soldiers of military service called up this spring in other regions.
In addition, the city of Derzhavinsk plans to complete the construction of a hospital for 70 beds, combined with a clinic worth 2,916 million tenge.
G. Abdykalikova expressed confidence that the new limit program about partnership between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan for 2016-2019 will promote achievement of the goals of strategy Kazakhstan-2050, programs "Nrla zhol" and 5 institutional reforms.
During the conversation, the President of Kazakhstan answered questions about the programs implemented in the country, the main directions of the country's economy development, the prospects for cooperation between the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union, important aspects of the development of the global economy, as well as strengthening cooperation with foreign states.
K. Tokaev drew special attention to the content of five institutional reforms voiced by the Head of State N. Nazarbayev at the congress "Nұr Otan."
Since the beginning of the sale of assets in 2014, the national carrier company has concluded 14 purchase and sale agreements with subsidiaries and affiliates in the amount of 23 billion 265 million tenge. since the beginning of the assets sale in 2014 , ktz signed sales contract by 14 subsidiaries and affiliated organizations for more than $ 23 billion 265 million tenge , the assessed value of the property amounted to slightly more than 18 billion 144 million tenge , " the statement reads .
we live as the younger generation of Kazakhstan in a unique era of peace. " we are the young generation of the republic of kazakhstan .
According to him, the state provides significant material assistance to foster families.
the number of invitations of the National Guard is increasing.
such measures will positively affect the deepening of humanitarian and cultural ties with our strategically important neighbor - Kazakhstan, "said Wang Yanzhong, director of the Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (cass).
Also in the message it is noted that increase in indicators is not promoted by activity of "universal number" (universal number) which was in common introduced by the Kazakhtelecom and Altel companies.
Georgy Margvelashvili expressed sincere congratulations to Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
At the same time, we made a number of changes to the legislation in the field of entrepreneurship, which are aimed at reducing the requirements for business entities, "said Kurbanbayeva.
In general, according to him, today thanks to the program "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" in the country created all the opportunities for citizens who want to engage in entrepreneurship.
Mangistau oilmen were and will be a reliable support and support of the head of state, actively participate in the social and political life of the country, unanimously support the decisions and plans of the president aimed at strengthening the authority of Kazakhstan and improving the life of the people!
a wide range of issues are on the agenda: a regional map of industrialization, public procurement, Kazakh content, problems of entrepreneurs.
The project will be attended by departments and regional departments, all organizations.
for this, the Kazakh delegation and the leadership of the aaka "kamaz" examined the main harvesting conveyor and the conveyor for collecting cabins, the exhibition of automotive equipment in the scientific and technical center "kamaz."
The sides expressed interest in further development of bilateral cooperation in the cultural and spiritual spheres.
Akmola region has developed the concept of large-scale events, including the holding of an international museum festival, an international festival of folklore and ethnographic ensembles.
wang Zoan thanked the leadership of Kazakhstan for the invitation to participate in the upcoming V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions and noted the importance of the President's initiative to hold this forum, whose culture has become an authoritative international platform for promoting global dialogue.
our democracy is ensuring that the state reports to the people, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Republican Council of Women, he called on citizens of Kazakhstan to be together for the future of the country in such a difficult, difficult period.
The President of the Union of Journalists - Juris Pipers, Head of the Broadcasting Association of the Lidaka Gunda noted that this book at this stage raises a wide range of issues of concern to humanity.
At the initiative of the Kazakh delegation, the session adopted a resolution "Strengthening cooperation in sustainable water resources management in the Asia-Pacific region."
During the meeting with the Director of the Anti-Narcotics Department, issues of bilateral cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking were discussed, the results of joint activities to identify transit and delivery routes of drugs were noted.
If we talk about the budget of the region for 2015-2017, the total volume of revenues and expenses will amount to 118.2 billion tenge, including 53.6 billion tenge of transfers and loans from the republican budget.
As noted in Akmola Media Center, the targeted transfers to the education department of Stepnogorsk city for execution of the state preschool educational order were allocated in the amount of 102,554 thousand tenge.
a candidate not younger than 40 years of age, who is a citizen of Kazakhstan from the moment of birth and fluent in the state language, who has lived in Kazakhstan for the past 15 years, can participate in the elections.
The region is actively involved in the formation of the food belt around the city of Astana. the region is actively involved in providing astana with food products .
the relay was held for twelve days with growth, in the cities of the capital, Almaty and Taraz.
Among the speakers and moderators of the congress are Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of Kazakhstan Baglan Mailybayev, Director of the Institute of National Strategy (Russian Federation) on international projects (Russian Federation) Yuri solozobov, President of the Center for Information and Political Expertise (ash), foreign and domestic scientists and experts, political scientists and sociologists.
K. Dzhakupov said that Kazakh parliamentarians are still developing a legislative framework for the effective implementation of the five institutional reforms initiated by the President of Kazakhstan, and said that it is important for our country for international experience, including the Dutch kingdom.
however, innovative technologies are needed to make a breakthrough forward.
according to him, such a measure exists in Russia and Belarus.
we carefully studied, there were no applications from 2 regions, in the remaining 2 regions the applications of entrepreneurs were approved, but they used other tools, "said L. Bragimov.
In this regard, the country's maritime infrastructure, the port trade zone and the production industry are developing.
in addition, the presidents will discuss trends in the global economy and the situation in Ukraine.
thus, modernization projects of two of the three oil refineries in Kazakhstan will be financed by the development bank for a long time.
the ferry complex in the port of Kuryk will become an important transport and logistics complex in the country and the Mangistau region. ferry complex in the port of kuryk will become an important component of the transport and logistics system of the country and the mangystau region .
among them are members of parliament, including the parliamentary friendship group with Kazakhstan, heads of diplomatic missions registered in Helsinki, scientists and cultural figures, representatives of socio-political and business circles, as well as Kazakh students studying in Finland, "the statement said.
First of all, for foreign guests who will visit our republic for the first time and get acquainted with the diverse culture and traditions of all peoples living in our country.
I believe that our joint efforts in the issue of expanding Armenian-Kazakh cooperation, our personal relations will continue to serve the interests of strengthening friendship between Armenia and the peoples of Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
in addition, he thanked Kazakhstan for its support in achieving the health-related Millennium Development Goals.
After that, the Governor of the region visited the non-growing administrative complex of Kazzinc LLP and gave a positive assessment of the work of the workshops of the copper plant.
The President of Kazakhstan received many letters from heads of foreign states and governments, heads of various Kazakh and foreign organizations.
Recall that 110 athletes from Kazakhstan took part in the last universiade.
also the main mechanisms of realization of the new economic policy "nrla zhol" will be considered.
In 2014, the nexos association, with the financial support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, made a 50-minute documentary about Spaniards who have served their sentences in karlag.
now we are opening our borders with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
1 thousand 400 patents for new research works and innovations have been received, "said the chairman of the committee.
veteran of labor, honorary citizen of Karaganda sosmagambetov notes that the presidential elections showed the whole world what nationwide love and support belongs to Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In this regard, in 2015-2019, major projects will be implemented to develop the infrastructure of airports in Astana, Kyzylorda, Petropavlovsk, Kostanay, modernize runways and passenger terminals, "he said.
In turn, the Finnish side received documents about Finnish prisoners of war, who in 1941-1944 were in the Karaganda prisoner of war camp in Kazakhstan.
The congratulation of the former President of Croatia S. Mesic notes that the apparent victory of the President of Kazakhstan in the elections demonstrated the full support of the population for the policy pursued by the head of state.
To date, 4.7 million tons are ready.
about 96 billion tenge was spent on these purposes, which is 11% more than in 2013.
According to Minister of Health and Social Development T.Duissenova, the implementation of DKZ-2020 will be carried out in three areas, taking into account its activation.
the vast majority of ancient bullets are Saki, Hun and Turkic-Mongolian warriors.
the number of examinable lectures is 1,079.
To counter the negative economic situation in the world, by order of the president, the National Fund annually allocates funds in the amount of about 2015-2017 billion dollars over 3 years.
The goal of the project is to remember the war, differentiate the knowledge collected by researchers, collect information about compatriots who participated in the war, "said Sergey Lapin, head of the department of political research and Eurasianism at the Institute of State History.
Majilis members elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan noted that the election results are based on the country's undisputed successes in domestic and foreign policy.
During the meeting, the facts of violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan were considered, including violations of the laws "On Languages ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On Broadcasting."
firstly, samruk-energo is now being privatized.
German Bundestag deputy, head of the German delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe. The finder congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of president of Kazakhstan.
he proposed to use the regional architectural, ethnographic and natural landscape experience of eastern Kazakhstan in the regional centers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
General Director of JSC "Kazenergokabel" o.kruk noted that the staff of the enterprise with deep satisfaction and sincere joy received the news of the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this year we formed 100 container trains from the port of Lianyungang to central Asia. since 2012 we have reached a 15-fold increase container flows from china to europe .
I went to the city military registration and enlistment office a lot, they brought me back, "recalls Maria Ivanovna.
In addition, the original of two lamps made in the XIV century is stored in the St. Petersburg Hermitage, the lower part of the lamp is stored in the Louvre Museum of Paris.
It is worth noting that this is the first vertically integrated company in the forest industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, this year the reconstruction of the Sokolov water supply group, as well as the water supply of 13 villages will be completed. in addition , this year the reconstruction of sokolovsky gw in 13 villages , reconstruction of presnovskiy gw in 7 villages .
According to Akmola Media Center, deputy akim of Makinsk bibigul syzdykova and deputy head of the district department of employment and social programs wished the veteran longevity and family well-being.
for its production, high-quality floating clay, the cleanest quartz sand, steppe spar and natural pigments are used.
in the same year, vocals, instrumental performance, dance, sign singing, and craft took part in the competition.
the new economic policy includes a set of measures that we must take in the future.
According to him, 335.8 billion tenge will be allocated to support the agro-industrial complex at the expense of the Fund of the Nation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a year ago, Nursultan Nazarbayev met with graduates, initiators of this program for the 20th anniversary. at present , this program trained around 8000 students from kazakhstan .
you are for us a vivid image of citizenship, courage, courage.
goods are sent to the markets of all regions of Kazakhstan, as well as to Russia.
The Water Code introduces new concepts governing legal relations and regulates organizational issues in the field of water supply and sanitation, as well as establishes the procedure for recognizing mismanagement of the water supply and drainage systems of the settlement and/or their constituent elements, as well as their accounting.
Changing the structure of investment dispute and international arbitration in law.
we must be able to appreciate and care for veterans.
I said these words on the eve of the upcoming anniversary holiday of the unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
all this suggests that we have deep roots for youth, our generation.
Within the framework of the project, three experimental sites were organized - Akmola region for the implementation of conductive solar land, Almaty region for the cultivation of amaranth culture, the production of biogumus, "he said.
I think this can be called a country project, because everyone can participate in it, "said the president of the civil alliance of Kazakhstan.
Director of the Institute of European Studies Professor noted the need to intensify bilateral relations between our countries and bring trade and economic relations to the level of political cooperation.
The President of Kazakhstan also talked with representatives of labor collectives, noting that the medical institutions of the city are provided with the necessary polyclinic and diagnostic equipment.
In addition, the modernization of the training system, advanced training of personnel should correspond to the national qualification system introduced in the country in 2009, "the minister said.
Protocol on Amending the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Russia on Trade and Economic Cooperation in the Field of Oil and Petroleum Products Supplies to the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 9, 2010; Convention for the unification of certain international air transport regulations and amendments to the articles of agreement of the International Monetary Fund.
I noticed that at polling stations everything takes place in accordance with the legislation of the state, citizens actively show their position, plus every citizen has a motivation - to participate in the elections or not, "said José Maria chicillo.
including cereals and legumes for 4.2 million hectares, oilseeds for 268 thousand hectares, potatoes for 18.6 hectares, vegetables for 4.4 thousand hectares, fodder crops for 202 thousand hectares.
we are holding a business forum that will make it possible to understand each other deeper than today, and we are discussing in it issues of strengthening further cooperation, "he said.
The head of state, along with others, instructed entrepreneurs not to reduce existing jobs, if possible, not to reduce wages, he said.
Abay aidarkhanovich bisembayev was appointed manager of the affairs of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the republic faces a number of important tasks related to agriculture.
Recall that over the past 6 years, 40 new kindergartens have been built in Almaty, 7 preschool institutions have been returned to communal property.
The head of the upper chamber noted that Kazakhstan is entering a new stage of its development.
In addition, we are making efforts to develop new sectors in the region, "said Governor of the region Kanat Bozumbayev.
rapid melting of snow, sharp warming. the rapid melting of snow , rapid warming has led to this situation .
As reported in Akorda's press service, employees of sokolovo-saraysky mining and processing production association expressed confidence that elections at a new stage of world development will promote further to consolidation of the population and consolidation of all Kazakhstan citizens for implementation of the program "nrla zhol" and strategy Kazakhstan-2050.
Along with testing for knowledge of the rules of the legislation, the officers' certification program included psychological testing, testing for knowledge of anti-corruption legislation, as well as tests for professional and physical training, the report said.
in addition to personnel bodies, psychologists, lawyers, officers of combat training and physical training participate in certification.
a couple and the documents I saw.
three more concerts are planned within the framework of Kazakhstan pearls in Vienna, including a gala concert in the prestigious Vienna "concerthouse" on the eve of Independence Day.
the new committee will give an independent expert assessment of the implementation of the transformation program in the group of companies of the fund.
I think that they passed this test well and there should be no questions in the form of cash in dollars or tenge, "the Kelimbets concluded.
we have a good mentor that a woman shakes the world with one hand, a cradle with one hand.	the kazakh people say :  a woman with one hand rocks the cradle , with the second - the universe . "
in addition, he instructed local executive bodies to submit proposals for providing housing for the regional branches of the Organization of Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, intended for the activities of the veterans' house.
they should define a strategy for the development of the organization of education, assign basic functions and monitor the progress of work with finance.
these requirements from national holdings will be canceled next year, "said B. Atamkulov.
As noted in the letter of the board, the head of state called EXPO-2017 "the energy of the future," and this is a unique opportunity for Kazakhstan to get new energy and "green" technologies.
In the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev highly appreciated the decisive steps aimed at ensuring the social situation of the population, the development of infrastructure modernization projects, improving the investment climate and the state of small and medium-sized businesses.
his care is very important for us who survived the war.
According to the Minister of Agriculture, the agro-industrial complex faces great challenges.
As the media center of Akmola reported, as part of this nationwide action, the head of the city of Muratbek Takambayev met with veterans of the Second World War and presented congratulations on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan.
this question is first and foremost asked by developing States.
it was attended by representatives of ethnocultural associations, a scientific and expert group, the youth wing of kha of eastern Kazakhstan.
we want to talk about the novelties that we saw during this election. we want to point out innovations that we have seen during the elections .
dear friends, dear veterans, the ceremony of presenting state awards coincided with such holidays as Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of the great victory. dear friends , dear veterans , the award ceremony coincides with two important events - the day of defender of the fatherland and the 70th anniversary of the great victory .
Last year, 12 thousand tons of meat and meat products, of which 7 tons of beef were sold for export.
Including respected veterans and government officials, borrowers.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to the leadership of the region regarding the development of SMEs, diversification of agriculture, increasing the sown areas of sugar beets, attracting investments, concluding collective agreements and reducing unemployment.
The construction of a secondary school for 300 places in the village of Kaypov has begun for a total of 799.1 million tenge, in the door city - a kindergarten for 280 places.
at the same time, military personnel of the armed forces of Kazakhstan give special attention to the parade.
76.98% of voters of Aktobe region, 65.51%, from Almaty region 80-31%, from Atyrau region 73.41%, from East Kazakhstan region 75.52%, Zhambyl region 72.49%, from West Kazakhstan region 67.05 13%, Karaganda region 69.21%, from the region - 73.12%, from Kostanayloday region 77.05, 7.03%, from Karaganda%
Also, manufacturing enterprises produced products worth 137.7 billion tenge.
During the meeting, the main directions for the further development of Kazakh-Chinese relations were discussed, as well as the preparation of the upcoming state visit of the Chairman of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping.
additional additives will be transported from other regions of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, the Governor's office reported.
the plant of the Rostov company was launched on the site of the former creamery.
In the center with 12 open and 4 closed courts, more than 300 children are engaged in tennis on an ongoing basis.
Ukrainian cultural center "Vatra" is one of the earliest ethnocultural centers of the capital.
we consider them from the point of view of implementation and commercialization. we considered all of them from the point of the possible implementation and commercialization .
A memorandum was signed between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the akimat of Aktobe region on the achievement of the state program.
The program "future," which I myself read and studied, can be a vivid confirmation of this word, "said Bishimbayev.
today we have made good progress in increasing the share of local content. today we have a positive tendency in increasing the share of local content .
The General Secretariat of Flexibility is located in the city of Jeddah (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia).
Recall that the international competitions "Caspian Sea-2015" will be held in June-July of the year in the territorial waters of the Russian Federation.
In particular, more detailed information is given about the connection of the Altynkol station with the dry port project.
Last week, I sent invitations to a number of international organizations and inter-parliamentary organizations, including the European Parliament.
The South Kazakhstan Regional Tatar-Bashkir Ectomic Center supports the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to support veterans of the Great Patriotic War and takes an active part in the organization of this event.
When the time of peace comes in other countries, we are happy in Kazakhstan thanks to the visionary leadership of our President Nursultan Nazarbayev. thank you , nursultan nazarbayev that remembers us .
the capital is the nearest natural consumer.
in those years, Timothy was next to him, but today he boarded the ship.
In total, 244 veterans from 14 districts and cities of Almaty came to the capital for the anniversary procession.
and this agreement was supposed to put an end to armed conflicts, but it was not respected, "the minister said.
the national museum has created all the conditions for their storage and demonstration.
According to the management, the format of the event includes the organization of a mass competition with the participation of the country's leadership.
we are implementing an industrialization program in order to achieve high-quality growth and diversification of the economy.
Others wished the President of Kazakhstan good health, happiness and success in promoting and developing the people of the republic to a high state post.
According to the expert, any changes in the upcoming policy will affect the state apparatus.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to continue work on improving the conditions of the eeo.
Umyrbekova aida, student of gymnasium No. 6, winner of the Grand Prix of the competition of scientific projects "young scientist" in South Korea, winner of the award "Best Innovative Work," presented the project "Ecocala."
efficiency of business service centers. "
The representative of the Majilis outlined the achievements of Kazakhstan in the course of socio-economic and political reforms carried out over the past decade. special envoy of the president of kazakhstan has outlined the success of kazakhstan achieved over the past decade in the course of the reforms in the social and economic and political spheres .
the card is entered in three steps. the introduction of the card consists of 3 steps .
this is what you can achieve thanks to good training, and this will allow you to become a professional, be respected and support your families, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
not yet embedded in the infrastructure, but perhaps we will invest in the infrastructure of Kostanay, perhaps not to grow further, "he concluded.
The solemn reception organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan brought together representatives of the Finnish political and business elite interested in developing cooperation with our country.	the gala reception at the  house of nobility " organized by the embassy of kazakhstan brought together a wide variety of representatives of the finnish political and business elite who are interested in developing relations with our country .
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, these events will be devoted to the international day of child protection, which this year will be held under the motto "Health and happiness of children - in our hands."
The event was attended by representatives of the Austrian Foreign Ministry and diplomatic corps, employees of international organizations registered in Vienna, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora, Kazakh students studying in Austria, public and cultural figures.
Until now, we have known Kazakhstan as a peace-loving state, and the participation of young people in today's elections means democracy in Kazakhstan. we have learned kazakhstan as a peaceful state , and participation of a large number of young people in elections says us about the democracy of the country .
One of the key areas in the country will be the development of the state's transport infrastructure, support and modernization of small and medium-sized enterprises.
After that, on behalf of the head of state, N.A. Nazarbayev, an official invitation was sent from the president of the country, Sheikh Caliph and Zayed al-Nahayan, to take part in the expo 2017 in the capital.
Last year, 91 container trains traveled by rail from China to Germany, 19 trains in the opposite direction, which is two and a half times more than in 2013.
The war near the Changakalle was a great shock for Turkey.
Within the framework of the visit, the participation of the heads of two states in the second meeting of the Council of Strategic Cooperation at the highest level is provided.
employees of the Shymkent Company of Pieces LLP and oil workers in the region are involved in this call.
Almost half of them did not return to the country if about 70 thousand soldiers were sent in World War II.
A feature of the meeting in Moscow was the participation in plenary meetings of representatives of security services of such states as Afghanistan, India, Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan, which are observer states of the Shu.
As part of the social responsibility of entrepreneurship in 2014, children from low-income families of this secondary school received assistance in the amount of 3 million tenge.
Kazakhstan and the couple have established close and multilateral relations in a number of industries. kazakhstan and the united nations have established close and multifaceted relations .
the first legislation at the level of three States - the Model Law on Competitiveness - was adopted three years ago. the first piece of legislation was adopted eighteen months ago at the level of the three states - a model law on competition .
Participants in the round table, including representatives of international organizations, commended the introduction of norms into national legislation aimed at international standards.
During the visit, a meeting was held with the participation of representatives of the branch of Kazavtodor JSC, Kazakhavtodor RGP, Mangistauzhollaboratiya RGP and a contracting company.
In addition, under the leadership of the famous academician of our country, Kh. Ukibaev, blue rams were brought from the Astrakhan region and the Zhambyl region of Russia, breeding is underway in the Solidarity residential complex and Happiness residential complex.
berdybek saparbayev visited the scientific and technical exhibition "Science and Business in the Development of Educational Integration," organized at the Kazakh National Technical University named after K. Satpaev, and also held a meeting with the faculty of the university, where he discussed topical issues of further development of education and science in the country.
That is, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will communicate once a year with representatives of the eurozone business environment and discuss topical issues, the deputy chairman said.
According to the results of 9 months of 2014, goods worth 2.3 trillion tenge were produced.
comprehensive certification of existing civil servants after the adoption of the new law on public service, strengthening professional requirements and the introduction of a new wage system.
in this part, in addition to books on military subjects, a slide composition was presented in honor of veterans of the Great Patriotic War who worked in the rear.
restoration work is carried out after lowering the water level, "said the head of the department.
the first phase was held in plenary session, at which the presentations of participants were heard.
On behalf of the coalition for the green economy and the developers of the g-global initiative, we congratulate you on your official election to the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan! on behalf of all members of the coalition for the green economy and the development of the initiative g-global i bring you my congratulations !
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War, personnel of the rehabilitation garrison, as well as residents and guests of the city took part in the solemn event on the banks of the Caspian Sea.
the parties confirmed that the capital and Vienna are important and reliable partners with each other.
two-time Olympic champion and four-time world champion met with British students who spoke about their training process, plans for the future and prospects for the development of Kazakh sports.
Despite the recent devaluation of the national currency, the "financial center" has established the registration of new educational deposits as the operator of the new deposit system.
The head of the defense department handed over letters and memorable gifts (commander's watch) to three officers - the senior lieutenant, the bisatov's sister, the male joyful and eugenius.
among them are 89 apartments for orphans, 6 apartments for veterans of the Great Patriotic War, 57 apartments for employees of budgetary organizations, 55 apartments for socially vulnerable citizens, 9 apartments for citizens of the general queue.
This constructive policy, which predicts foresight, is a clear program aimed at ensuring sustainable economic growth of the state, improving the well-being and quality of life of our people, social protection of every Kazakhstani, despite the economic, political crises in the world, "said the Chairman of the Senate.
It is noted that the commission under the local executive bodies for the legalization of property in Kazakhstan received 21,900 applications for the legalization of real estate totaling 181.7 billion tenge: 17880 residential objects worth 134.7 billion tenge; 9,778 non-residential facilities worth 45.5 billion tenge, including 2,251 commercial facilities worth 28.1 billion tenge; 14 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; securities worth 0.8 billion tenge.
every year the state allocates 35 thousand grants for free education in higher educational institutions of the country, and training in foreign countries today is carried out through the updated "future" program.
my husband served in an artillery regiment in Semipalatinsk, engaged in physical training of military personnel. my husband served in the artillery regiment in semey city , engaged in physical training of military personnel .
The chief executive officer of the company eni k.descalzi noted that the election results once again proved the high level of trust, support of the people for the internal and foreign policy of Kazakhstan, carried out under the wise leadership of the President of Kazakhstan.
the investment attractiveness of the region is ensured by the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development and the development of a special economic zone in the "sea harbor of rehabilitation" zone.
According to Nurbekov, this idea is caused by foreign experience.
The main goal of the event is to comprehensively check the combat skills of personnel, cooperation in the team, coherence of decisions made, the moral and professional skill of military personnel, the ability of military units to make appropriate decisions as soon as possible. the main purpose of the activities - is a comprehensive check of the combat training of personnel , team cohesion , and coherence calculations , moral and professional qualities , to assess the level of combat training and readiness of military units in the shortest possible time to perform tasks .
In connection with the change in the policy of establishing a basic pension from July 1, 2017, the mechanism for establishing pensions for all pensioners of pre-retirement age will also change. in connection with the change of assignment policy of the basic pension since july 1 , 2017 mechanism of assigning the basic pension will also be changed for all pensioners .
Deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan familiarized the German side with the main provisions of the message of the head of state of November 11, 2014 "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
from this point of view, this campaign also deserves a special example.
We are holding this seminar to analyze the work done to date on the development of proficiency in three languages, to determine what reserves and opportunities are in this direction, "said B. Kaparbayev.
Each winner and active participant of the festive competition and question-and-answer contest held on this day in the square were awarded with memorable prizes and gifts depicting the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017."
We are confident that this step will be involved by parliament, government, central and local authorities in the further prosperity of our Motherland, achieving its goals. " Baibek at a briefing in the CCS.
the monument reminds the viewer of the 400-year history of the transatlantic slave trade and the consequences that the descendants of victims of trafficking still experience.
1.9 billion tenge is additionally allocated for this direction at the expense of the regional budget.
Last year dairy products worth 180.8 billion tenge were produced.
At the age of 19 he went to the front.
the project is aimed at popularizing the theme of expo 2017 among young people, which is designed to raise awareness among schoolchildren about issues of attracting special attention to the environment and the theme of the exhibition - "energy of the future."
Employment Roadmap 2020. "
According to him, before appearing as an observer for the early presidential elections in Kazakhstan, he got acquainted with the Kazakh election law.
By its will, the people of Kazakhstan have shown the world wide and impartial support for your creative policy aimed at the prosperity of the country, the continuous improvement of its authority in the international arena and the well-being of its people. the people of kazakhstan demonstrated to the world wide and unquestionable support for your creative policy aimed at prosperity of the country , the steady growth of its international prestige and well-being of its people .
To date, there are no such norms, so they are being prepared and implemented in the country, "he said at a briefing.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, in 2014 the quota for attracting foreign labor was approved at the level of 0.7% of the economically active population of the republic.
Plan of the year: to collect and work out a package of projects in Kazakhstan, "he said.
The jubilee medal "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan," as well as the gold medal "Unity of the People of Kazakhstan" were awarded on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in honor of the 20th anniversary of kha.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan sets an important task for the development of the main sectors of the economy.
In turn, this feature was explained by Vice Minister of Health and Social Development Daulet Argyndykov.
Taking into account the friendly relations of our countries, we rely on your support in solving a number of issues, including the simplification of the visa regime in cooperation with the European Union, the removal of restrictions in the field of aviation, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is enough in the national company, so you should not doubt this issue, "K. Kelimbetov explained.
7693 remain at evacuation points and relatives.
Of these, 22.6% for the purchase of meat and fish, 16.8% for the purchase of milk, butter and eggs, 10.5% for fruits and vegetables, 7.9% for bread products, sugar, tea and other products - 2.2% of this indicator.
It is surprising that Almaty received the status of the capital of Islamic culture in 2015, when it marked 20 years since Kazakhstan joined the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. it is symbolic that almaty gets the status of the capital of islamic culture in the jubilee , 2015 , in the year of the 20th anniversary of kazakhstan 's membership in the organization of islamic cooperation ( oic ) .
The head of the Central Election Commission introduced Ms. Jonker to the work of the central election commission on the preparation and conduct of early elections, the main stages of the election campaign and its features.
Amandyk Batalov, Chairman of the Board of Real Estate Fund Samruk Kazyna JSC bolat palymbets and President of Elitstroy Group LLP zhulat orazbekov congratulated the new owners of the apartments.
Since March 26, 15 thousand materials have been published on the topic of elections, "said K. Turgankulov.
all ethnic theaters promote the culture, art of ethnic groups living in Kazakhstan, "said the head of the secretariat of the kha administration of the President of Kazakhstan.
in general, production will produce and process agricultural and livestock products, even its products will be sold in Kazakhstan, China and other countries of the world.
they account for 59.9% of the regional volume of investments in fixed assets.
we have always actively supported your policy, voted for you.	and we need just such a president on this difficult path ! the authors wrote .
in particular, Kazakhstan had improved maternal and infant mortality, life expectancy and other indicators.
According to Italian media, today the Kazakhstan pavilion has become one of the five most visited by the guests of the exhibition, "he assured.
Recall that at the first meeting of the Council for the Development of Youth Entrepreneurship of Kazakhstan, the creation of a business school was announced.
In total, 36 scientific projects are being implemented at the Turkic Academy with the participation of 192 world scientists representing the interests of more than 30 Turkic-speaking centers.
The President of Kazakhstan agreed to visa-free entry of Hungarian citizens into this country.
A statement was also adopted by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in connection with the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945.
The main purpose of the event is the implementation of the concept of cultural policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the revision of methods, approaches to support and development of the cultural sphere. the main purpose of the event was the realization of the concept of cultural policy in akmola region , the revision of approaches , methods , support and development of the cultural sector .
the guests of our today's fair are representatives of different parts of Kazakhstan, "he said. our fair of experts is attended by the representatives from different parts of kazakhstan .
I want to say that we are ready to continue working together to help your cause in promoting democratization reforms and the development of civil society in the country, the letter says.
If a citizen is a participant in the compulsory social insurance system, he, in addition to social benefits from the national budget, is provided with social payments in case of loss of income due to pregnancy and childbirth, adoption (adoption).
members of the mission got acquainted with the work on refining the voter lists by visiting the polling stations of the regional election commissions in Almaty, Almaty, Almaty, Mangistau region. the mission visited the territorial and district commissions in almaty city , in almaty , atyrau and mangistau regions , was familiarized with their work on the voter lists .
According to Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, with an increase of 7.6% to 313.5 thousand tenge. commissioned meters of housing (3,299 apartments).
you and I are the only ones linking our future.
In turn, the vice-president of the Asian Development Bank expressed interest in continuing cooperation between the government and Kazakhstan in such areas as venture energy, transport infrastructure, economic diversification and knowledge support.
Let the wealth and architecture of each shanyrak in our country be strengthened!
its main goal - ensuring the social security and well-being of citizens - is the main key to stability, "B. Saparbayev said in a congratulatory statement.
Recall, on April 26, early presidential elections were held in Kazakhstan.
you said: "If the ship does not know which port, then there will be no wind to it."
Almaty supported this patriotic movement one of the first, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
To realize this goal, representatives of the company visited a number of cities of Kazakhstan last year.
photo and book exhibitions will be organized in all settlements "my country is an eternal country!"
In particular, he emphasized the fraternal cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey within the framework of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, created on the initiative of the head of state.
According to the press service of the region, its opening was the Ukrainian ethnocultural association Oksana.
It is worth noting that the interests of the tourism business are protected by about 15 associations of the republican and regional levels.
According to the organizers, this collection will be distributed to students, war veterans and scientists.
this service should be responsible for the protection of public order, the fight against domestic crimes, and the road patrol service.
I wish this holiday to make a good mood and a positive impression on you, "said the vice minister.
in addition, pilot projects for the implementation of hassle are being implemented.
young tourists-local historians of the West Kazakhstan region adequately defended this status and became champions of the rally.
kaznex invest will also support the participation of enterprises in international cross-industry exhibitions.
ivecocitelis buses were presented at the industrial exhibition, which are now included in the transport infrastructure of the capital.
in his message, the President of Kazakhstan clearly outlined the deadlines necessary for joining the thirty competitive countries of the world.
we must not reduce the rule of law.
the average monthly salary amounted to 120.5 thousand tenge and increased by 3.9%.
After the presentation, all mobile devices will be transferred to the participants of the Second World War through the city council of veterans.
I wish the Kazakhstanis peace of mind.
Kha also held a charity event "Unprecedented Art," which provides for the transfer of book collections to the library.
At the moment, there is a list of 9 thousand 700 observers working at all polling stations.
Ambassador B. Jumakhanov noted that the current state of economic cooperation between our countries does not correspond to a high level of political cooperation and has great potential for further development.
The forum was attended by about 2,000 representatives of state and business structures, non-governmental organizations and the academic environment around the world.
in all complexes there are hotels, parking lots, cafes, gas stations, transport repair shops, recreation places.
Governor of the region visited all houses in the children's village and congratulated the children on the holiday.
in his speech, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to further advance Kazakhstan and spoke about 5 important reforms that should be implemented in the future.
During the meeting, methods of qualitative selection of military personnel for military service in the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the possibility of carrying out psychological work with personnel were discussed.
The "one window" principle is also applied in customs-related work.
Currently, Amg has begun work on bringing the activities and technological work of airports to international standards, using all domestic resources, "he said.
In turn, the Mongolian side expressed interest in deepening economic cooperation with the Eurasian Economic Union and became interested in the opportunities of the integration association in the field of economic cooperation.
During the event, students of the Vyacheslav school were awarded the certificate "Keeper of the Expo" in a solemn atmosphere.
the main goal is the introduction of advanced standards of medical care (treatment protocols, personnel development, drug support, quality control and accessibility).
A lot of good deeds are done for this, "said the deputy akim of the region bakhtiyar maken.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister attended the reception of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, where he met with Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu and took part in the second meeting of the joint strategic planning group between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Turkey, the statement said.
The seminar in the format of thinking discussed the issues of the national open data strategy for the Kazakhstan open government development group.
In general, most students work on alternative energy sources.
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Mohammed al-Zaid exchanged views on key issues on the regional and international agenda.
As noted in the report, the import of flour, grain, pasta and confectionery products, soft drinks, agricultural products and building materials was of particular interest to Afghans.
During the meeting, the heads of state signed the Protocol on the Exchange of Letters of Ratification of the Treaty on Good-Neighbourliness and Alliance of the 21st Century between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation of November 2013, 11.
of which 94 thousand people were employed for permanent work, 308.6 thousand for temporary work, "said M. Mukhanov.
the creation of a new organization was an example of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
it contains numerous photographs of the war years and letters from fellow countrymen from the front.
In this program document, the head of state instructed kegoc to build high-voltage lines on the routes of "ekibastuz-families-growth" and "families-aktogai-taldykorgan-apple."
the remaining memorandums of understanding have been concluded with new investors. "
Kazakhstan presides over the CIS this year, Belarus is the chairman of the Eurasian Economic Union, in the fall we meet with the heads of state of the CIS countries in Kazakhstan, on May 9 in Moscow.
The main purpose of the selection is high-quality preparation of investment programs of subjects. the main criterion for selection is a quality preparation of investment programs by the subjects .
According to him, under the leadership of the head of state, before that, there were large reforms and changes in all spheres of society, providing for the implementation of the requirements of the country's main law.
in Durham, at the International Development Center of the Duke Ambassadors University, he took part in the graduation ceremony of Kazakh civil servants who completed a three-month course as part of the "Training Program in the Fields of Public Policy and Management for the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan."
we, that is, in Kazakhstan, President Nursultan Nazarbayev has always advocated this initiative, therefore, a presidential state has formed in Kazakhstan, which correctly sees a clear solution to the problem, without waiting for the result of a conflict of views.
The study pisa-2015 (evaluation of mathematics, natural science and educational literacy) was attended by 7,873 15-year-old students from 232 educational organizations from 16 regions of the country.
The meeting discussed the tasks arising from the results of the XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
k.ribeiro praised Kazakhstan's initiative towards a nuclear-weapon-free world.
the people of Kazakhstan demonstrated their high respect for their leader by transferring their votes in elections to peace, friendship and harmony, "the authors write.
One of the mechanisms of intra-corporate procurement is the funds allocated by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan. one of the most effective mechanisms for intra-procurement is the allocation of funds from the development bank of kazakhstan .
The solemn events in Moscow were attended by about 30 heads of foreign states and governments, heads of international organizations.
of which 5,423 (64.9%) are employed, 811 continue their studies, another 159 graduates have completed military service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 60 due to the fact that they continue their studies in universities outside the region.
of which 32 people - as part of a company during the War in the historical part, 154 servicemen of all types and branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan - in the modern part.
the absence of complaints about any violations of the electoral law as a whole suggests that, in our opinion, the current electoral process is taking place as openly as possible and in accordance with the law, "said N. Suindikov.
As part of the action of honor for victory in the country, a relay race is held to present the pennant of victory to concentrated military units.
According to him, Governor's Office of Yuko is considering the issue of attracting a professional foreign company to manage this region.
Holding the music-tv award in Kazakhstan, we bring cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation closer to another step, "said A. Dauletiyarov.
The press conference will be attended by Saddat Kadyrov, First Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Institute of Economic Research, Director of the Kazakhstan Fund for Economic Initiatives corporate fund.
among oralmans of working age, 8.7% had higher education, 20.5% had secondary special education, 61% had general secondary education and 9.8% had no education.
The head of state examined the workshop of the plant for the production of children's therapeutic and preventive nutrition.
Participation in the parade is a sign of my pride in the Kazakh army. participation in the parade is the expression of pride that i feel for the kazakh army .
Today Sarybulak LLP regulates export directions.
including many appeals related to social and medical issues.
supporting entrepreneurs in the field of trade will improve the quality of services, attract new brands through a franchise.
military musicians and pupils of the republican school named after the sagadat army general nurmagambetov solemnly greeted the delegation that arrived at the capital's airport.
For the first time in history, Azerbaijan University (Baku) presented educational grants to all winners and prize-winners.
In turn, the President of Kazakhstan noted the friendly nature of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Vietnam. at the initiative of Nazarbayev highly appreciated the dynamic development of Kazakhstan, as well as its achievements in the political and economic spheres.
people were in a hurry to the polls, like a holiday, "he said.
at the same time, there are criteria.
On the territory of more than 20 hectares, it is planned to build multi-storey houses, office buildings, parking, as well as small lakes with a subtropical microclimate, exotic dendrostructure, biocumbous cultural and social infrastructure.
During the meeting, issues related to the proposals for the draft Program on Ensuring Security in the CIS Space, the Presidency of the Republic of Tajikistan in 2015, as well as the harmonization and rapprochement of national legislation of the member states of the agreement for 2016-2020 were discussed.
Having familiarized with the work of the new enterprise, the Governor of the region noted that the enterprise was provided with state support for laying the gas pipeline as part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
To this end, we should actively participate in the implementation of our ideas, in the adjustment of our plans, "said the head of the secretariat of Kha Wikimbek Ayazbayev.
According to him, we will provide the needs of the economy and the needs of the population with the existing capacity.
if institutional reforms are carried out correctly, that is, an impeccable state apparatus, an unsold fair court, a third industrialization and economic growth, "then only small and medium-sized businesses will develop without state pressure, the process of industrialization will continue.
The main goal of the bill is to improve the quality and accessibility of medical care, bring the current legislation in line with international standards, the report said.
we are very happy to establish such relations and come to Kazakhstan with pleasure, "- said during the signing of the memorandum between the governments of Hungary and Kazakhstan.
Shazhenov was relieved of the post of executive secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
there is also a great demand for marble meat in Almaty and Astana.
in addition, provide jobs for people with disabilities, ensure industrial and environmental safety in order to support small and medium-sized businesses.
According to the data at the beginning of April of this year, 4,715 participants in the Great Patriotic War live in the country.
the assembly has its seat in parliament, that is, it has political power.
The plan of measures for the preparation and holding of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Republic of Kazakhstan, approved in accordance with the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of October 16, 2014 No. 1105, provides for more than 50 events, including: awarding war veterans with the jubilee medal "70 years of victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945," holding a military parade in Astana dedicated to Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of Victory with the participation of war veterans and rear workers.
According to the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, the agreement of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev with the Prime Minister of Italy matteo renzi has received a new field.
lessons learned will be compiled and used throughout the country.
In total, 6,108 people, 1,628 pieces of equipment, 115 drainage devices and 99 watercraft were involved in emergency rescue operations.
existing maritime trade routes cannot meet the growing needs of international trade. existing sea trade routes are not able to meet the growing needs of international trade .
In addition, according to the head of state, a new world line of destruction of central Asia may break out, which, in turn, is easily cost in all regions.
great Lenin: labor, labor, again labor. first of all it is work , is perseverance , this determination , is to support the family .
according to him, this topic was chosen in order to show the history and life of each people.
annual increases in pensions and other social benefits.
Degree I diploma and keys to autohydrocrane sent to an employed area. thus , the i degree diploma and the keys were handed to the mayor 's office of enbekshikazakh district .
In addition, in all regions of the country, before being sent to the army, solemn wires will be held, to which the akims of the region (city, district) and parents of conscripts, veterans of the Second World War, home front workers, soldiers who participated in local and Afghan wars are invited.
this event is held annually, but today's theme is more balanced. this event is held annually , but the theme of today 's meeting is special .
It is noted that Kazgeomash LLP is located in Shymkent.
The organizers of the event - "Eternal youth of the country - into the industry!" Coordination Council of the republican headquarters and the Department of Youth Policy of Akmola region.
made Kazakhstan a famous world state.
According to the Foreign Ministry, the Minister informed the interlocutor about the work of the Foreign Ministry in preparation for the early presidential elections.
To do this, every peasant in the country must be ready for work. to reach this , every agricultural producer must be prepared to work hard .
the parties expressed interest in further development of strategic partnership and allied relations between the two countries.
The head of state pays great attention to the development of sports, since the head of state understands that the development of the state primarily depends on the health of citizens. you know that our head of state always pays great attention to sport , he realizes that the development of the state is dependent on the health of citizens .
Today, this company employs 3 thousand 49 people.
soon a new selection will begin in a military educational institution, "the report said.
we have developed and developed a testing method to improve our portal.
Thus, according to the CEC, a total of 1024 international observers and foreign representatives of the garden are registered.
Last May, comprehensive measures were taken to support the food industry, which was a priority of the government.
The tax rate until December 31, 2016 will decrease from 14 to 0% of the customs price. the rate of duty is reduced from 14 % to 0 % till 31 december 2016 .
Your trust has always inspired me, I can say with confidence today that I will honestly serve the people, as in previous years, take care of the people, strive for a good life of the people, "said N. Nazarbayev.
military rank of lieutenant general
Within the framework of this project, it is planned to build 5088 apartments with a total calculation of one, two and three-room, the area of ​ ​ which will be from 32.7 to 71.3 thousand square meters. meters.
someone is taken with their family, someone wants to return, does not let their wives, does not let their children.
Following the discussion, bakytzhan sagintayev instructed the "baiterek" ubh "together with the akimats of the white regions, the capital and cities of Almaty to complete the construction in a timely manner and ensure the distribution of housing to the waiting lists.
The production of the enterprise is equipped with modern technologies and meets the needs of all companies producing drilling operations in the casatomic "huak," the report said.
preventive and rescue work continues in the flood zones of the republic. preventive measures and rescue operations are being continued in flood region .
To achieve 6% growth of Kazakhstan's economy, we will create about 10 thousand new jobs.
At the same time, the area of ​ ​ artificial irrigation in the region in 2014 amounted to 8,900 hectares, and the area of ​ ​ drip irrigation reached 850 hectares, which is 6.2% more than in 2013.
Between June 2014 and January 2014, 76 facilities were privatized.
unfortunately, the number of participants in the Great Patriotic War is decreasing from year to year.
As you know, during the elections a high activity of the population was noted. as you know , the population was very active and they were voting since early morning .
The protection of the rights of the child is one of the priorities of the State social policy in Kazakhstan.	according to the supreme court , upholding the rights of the child is determined in kazakhstan as one of the priorities of the state social policy .	0,99
most oralmans of working age (60.8%) have general secondary education, 20.5% - secondary special education, 8.7% - higher education, 9.9% - the number of oralmans without education.	many repatriated kazakhs of working age have secondary education ( 60.8 % ) , 20.5 % had received specialized secondary education , 8.7 % of repatriates have higher education and 9.9 % have no education .	0,99
perhaps international, defense and agro-industrial events will be held there.	perhaps international events , military , agricultural exhibitions will be held there .	0,99
azhar in the Taldykorgan. "
The launch of the project, initiated by the heads of two states Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi Jiping, was attended by representatives of the delegation led by the head of the National Company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy joint-stock company.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Alexander Lukashenko also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
The festival started with the summation of the mega-project "Road Map of Peace and Harmony."
Since independence last year, the decline in food imports has been completed. since the beginning of the independence of our country we noticed a decline in food imports .
Veteran heroes shared their memories of victories and defeats during the war.
we are improving the entrepreneurial environment, and if possible we will seek to increase the demand for goods and services produced by these employers in the domestic market. we will improve the business environment and , if it possible , to contribute to the expansion of demand for goods and services produced and provided by these employers in the domestic market .
According to him, at present this bill has been prepared and submitted to the meeting.
At the concert, which took place during adolescence, the artists of the Astana Opera Theater, Honored Artist of Bashkortostan, Alfia Karimov (soprano), famous Pininochka, professor of the National University of Arts of Kazakhstan Timur Ormanshev, young talented violinist, laureate of international competitions, performed the most common works of world classics.
participants in the program include civil servants, large families, employees of budgetary institutions, socially vulnerable segments of the population and other categories of citizens.
topical issues were discussed, priorities for further social development of the region were determined.
this performance is dedicated to the 20th anniversary of kha. this show is dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
we are sure that you understand most of all as a metallurgist than anyone else, "the letter says.
We believe that Kyrgyzstan's formal membership in the Eurasian Economic Union will end in May, "he said.
In this regard, the upcoming extraordinary presidential elections in Kazakhstan are an important step towards ensuring stability, socio-economic development and creating favorable conditions for foreign investors.
According to the ministry, a number of practical issues of the judicial system were considered at the meeting.
In the center of the Kargalinsky district, the central and small boiler rooms of the village of Badamsha were reconstructed.
In May next year, it is planned to grow so many more cubs.
our president, standing near the metallurgical furnace, knows perfectly well how the worker lives today, what a simple Kazakhstani needs. chastened near the metallurgical furnaces , our president knows very well how the working man lives today , the president knows what the kazakhstani people want for .
As you know, President Nursultan Nazarbayev gave the corresponding order at the expanded meeting on February 11.
we are proud of our country and intend to further increase its power. we are proud of our country and we will strengthen its power further .
According to the Minister, the project will be implemented with the support of the World Bank.
The competence of the new Vice Minister includes issues of physical culture and sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, a project to build a 500 kV high-voltage line with a length of 705 km of "ekibastuz-families-growth" worth 45.5 billion tenge has been launched for equal energy supply of the republic.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has become an eternal defender of the unity of our multinational people.
A new complex for the production of consumer goods, pipes and metal products necessary for housing and communal services was opened in the fifth-class branch of Rainbow JSC.
Working groups of the Prosecutor General's Office have begun to check law enforcement and special bodies of the Aktobe, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Kostanay regions with a view to identifying problematic issues in the application of new legal acts, taking the necessary measures to ensure the effective functioning of the legal system in the new conditions.
According to representatives of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the meeting was held as part of a cooperation agreement between the national bank and the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
96.7% of small enterprises (100 people), 2.6% of medium-sized (101-250 people), 0.7% of large (250 people), 7 thousand 158 or 76.3% of individuals (over 250 people), state 1 thousand 782, foreign 437 are registered in the region.
The collection includes documents found in the national archives of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus.
In St. Petersburg, Kazakh parliamentarians took part in the Memorial Relay ceremony.
In his speech, he expressed confidence that it is necessary to talk about business, speaking about the transformation of the hr industry.
Countries provide mutual support to each other, cooperate in the fields of economy, education and tourism, conduct constant dialogue and mutual cultural exchange at all levels, including through participation in such events.
at the first stage, insurance policies will be issued for sorters working in regional centers, "he said.
In this program document, the head of state instructed kegoc to build high-voltage lines on the routes of "ekibastuz-families-growth" and "families-aktogai-taldykorgan-apple."
The celebration of the poet's anniversary will involve business and non-profit organizations of the region, public associations, prominent artists and cultural figures, residents of the region.
Zh. Tuimebayev presented the agenda to the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
management and staff of the national museum RK, advisers of Embassy of the Russian Federation in Kazakhstan Valentina Lysenko and Victor Nefedov, chairman of the board of directors "Caspian bank", project manager "Freelancers of St. Petersburg" Yury Saulidi, members of the Union of artists of Kazakhstan akhmetzhan kaliolla, Armatas of bektas and sembigala smagulovy and chairman of the Union of artists of the city of Astana Toktar of ermek, researcher of art, and. Head of the Center for Contemporary Foreign Art named after Kasteev RK.
The Minister noted the great contribution of the Kazakh Orthodox Church to strengthening peace and harmony in society and noted the need to develop a fruitful dialogue between the state and religious associations.
the capital has become one of the centres of global interreligious and intercultural dialogue.
for example, Astana will prepare a new Nazarbayev University, Eurasian National University named after Gumilev and Kazakh Agricultural University named after Seifullin.
29 of these 700 companies are implementing 46 projects worth $2.5 billion, "said the chairman of the board.
In addition, the party leader expressed admiration for the mutual support and integration of the two countries within the framework of other international associations.
Chairman of the Board of the Japanese company-corporation also expressed confidence that Nursultan Nazarbayev will lead to even greater prosperity of Kazakhstan and its people, as well as contribute to the development of friendly relations with Japan.
During the meetings, issues of bilateral relations and strengthening of fruitful dialogue at various directions and levels, including economic cooperation between the two countries, were discussed.
In addition, in the future, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Macedonia and the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan agreed on cooperation in the field of education.
According to him, the leading states with various indices are identified for choosing the government model in Kazakhstan: Canada, Austria, New Zealand and Singapore.
We also see that the budget allocated for the Business Roadmap 2020 program is 100% mastered, "the National Chamber said.
The deputies will discuss issues on protecting children from information that has a negative impact on their health and development, amending the Code "On Public Health and the Health System," introducing innovation in the field of legal regulation of intellectual property, "the statement said.
Chairman of the Committee on Defense, Public Order and National Security of the Senate of Parliament, who is an active supporter of the promotion of inter-parliamentary cooperation between Kazakhstan and Romania and one of the leaders of parliamentary diplomacy, read out the ionic aggregation.
and the amount of benefits, salaries for state employees, scholarships and social compensation remain without reduction, "said the chairman.
we care for young people, pensioners, as well as for everyone who needs the support of the state.
Within the framework of the new directions of "Nұrly zhol," the expansion of research laboratories will be financed in the amount of 5 billion tenge, "the minister said.
91.3% of the residents of the region are provided with high-quality drinking water, the heat supply system of the city of Aktobe and district centers such as alkar, kandyagash, badamsha has been updated, the letter says.
Kazakh diplomat familiarized Bavarian business groups with the provisions of the new economic policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" and measures taken in Kazakhstan to increase investment interest.
it uses building materials of the last sample.
The President noted that due to a sharp budget reduction, the government will have to revise a number of its criteria.
copies of archival documents, information about the battle, photo gallery, videos will be published on the site.
state bodies and non-state organizations, the garden will achieve results against human trafficking. "
As the head of state noted, in the future Kazakhstan will continue peaceful cooperation in the post-Soviet space with regional disputes and the Islamic world in maintaining regional security.
that is, the number of environmentally friendly public transport in Almaty increased from 10 to 60%.
at our panel sessions, we plan to once again familiarize the Kazakh contribution made to the expo-2017 movement, "he said.
The head of the department held a meeting on the potential of transport and logistics development of the western region of Kazakhstan on the territory of the rehabilitation international commercial port.
I think that in the near future a highly qualified expert activity will appear in Kazakhstan. "
According to the new Kazakh-Turkmen line, cargo turnover in 2014 amounted to 1.1 million tons and exceeded the 2013 figure by 3 times. the volume of traffic on the new line kazakhstan-turkmenistan amounted to 1.1 million tons in 2014 .
Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev conducted an analysis of unrealized cases according to strategic and program documents, instructed to bring the perpetrators to justice and reduce programs that impede the implementation of plans.
according to him, mainly optimization concerns projects related to imports.
As noted in the report, Turkish imams are registered with civil servants and receive social assistance from the state.
Abdikalikova noted that the state program "Nұrly zhol" is of particular importance for ensuring sustainable economic growth, preserving jobs today and opening new ones in the conditions of deterioration of the situation in foreign markets.
You can get the figure 1,9,4,5, this is the day of victory of 1945, dial this figure and send him sms, then you will have 250 tenge withheld. you can dial four numbers 1 9 4 5 , typing and sending sms to this number , and you deducted 250 tenge .
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, during 5 years (2010-2014) out of 83 projects included in the industrialization map of Aktobe region with a total estimate of 691.1 billion tenge and providing for the creation of 11.8 thousand jobs, it was noted that 74 projects were implemented for a total of 547 billion tenge with the creation of 6.6 thousand permanent jobs.
Gdd - a doctor with appropriate education, a permit (state license) for the provision of primary health care to individuals, family members and the entire contingent registered at the medical station, regardless of gender, age and nature of the disease.
Since 2009, the population's supply of blue fuel has reached from 5 to 7 million people.
at the same time, a modern international transport and logistics system will be created in the city, including a new airport terminal.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was informed about the ongoing work to improve the combat readiness of the Kazakh army and measures to strengthen its combat potential.
it is also favorable for drilling in the Iranian sector.
Kazakh companies have the opportunity to invest in special economic zones of Lithuania and produce goods called "made in the European Union" with further export to the EU countries, "K. Massimov said.
Topical issues of nuclear medicine are an important event in the field of healthcare of Kazakhstan, which provides not only the medical sphere, but also the economic sphere, "said the health veteran of Kazakhstan, candidate of medical sciences, dusembay zhanabayev.
I want to emphasize that Kazakhstan's justice meets all the main world standards. first of all the judicial system is separate from influence of other branches of government .
I would say that this election campaign was exemplary. in general , i can say that the campaign was almost exemplary .
as a result of the vote, 46 thousand people from 2 countries of the world voted.
As part of the project, it is planned to build a terminal for freight and passenger transportation.
in the end, children will become inhabitants of the planet, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Kazakh content development policy is a pressing problem of supporting domestic business.
paying tribute to the memory of the dead Kazakh soldiers for the respect of Finland, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the importance of studying the fate of Soviet prisoners of war, including natives of our country, from the point of view of the general history of Kazakhstan and Finland.
As you know, the Tulpar-talgo plant was opened with the participation of our leader.
we must not only combat the consequences of corruption, but also take measures aimed at eliminating its prerequisites, "said the chairman of the commission, Deputy Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General Talgat Mukhtar.
500,000 tenge was allocated for water supply, sanitation, repair of the drinking network of the city of Stepnagorsk.
this program will be implemented as part of the support of the party, since it has authority, many people throughout the country are in the ranks of the party. this program will be implemented under the auspices of the party , because it has the authority , it consists of many people across the country .
The meeting also discussed issues of ensuring law and order in the region, set new tasks in the priority areas of prosecutor's supervision, preventing social conflicts, protecting the labor rights of citizens, monitoring the socio-political situation, increasing the level of confidence of citizens, strengthening the human rights role of the prosecutor's office, preventing offenses, and implementing the principle of "zero tolerance."
at today's coordinating council, 5 projects were discussed.
the share of individuals engaged in individual trading activities and selling mainly retail trade in the markets amounted to 59.5%.
for many voters today is a holiday, because many believe that the presidential election is the main choice of the country, the future of every Kazakhstani.
The head of the region noted that as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program in 2014, 5506 people from among the waiting lists received housing.
The building, consisting of two floors, has a dining room for 100 people, a restaurant for 500 seats and supermarkets.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that second-level banks bear increased responsibility, through them funds will be sent to the domestic economy to finance the Nұrly Zhol program.
Bosnia praised Kazakhstan's chairmanship of the ECU and initiatives to conduct EXPO 2017 and cooperation within the international organization.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eurozone, investment attractiveness, transit and transport potential, as well as inter-parliamentary relations were discussed.
The event was attended by senators, Minister of Agriculture asylzhan mamytbekov, deputy akim of South Kazakhstan region saparbek tuyakbayev, deputy minister of finance ardak tengebayev, chairman of the committee on construction, housing and communal services and land management kazbek shikanayev.
According to the Federation of Organic Agricultural Movement of Kazakhstan, today 25 farms are engaged in organic production in Kazakhstan in 3 regions of the country - diamonds, kostanay, northern Kazakhstan, "Y. Nsherbayev said at a seminar aimed at supporting the development of organic agriculture and improving the institutional potential of Kazakhstan.
"it was the main task of my father's last expedition.
members of the public pay attention to the implementation of a number of projects of national and international importance.
after such practical training, undergraduates entering the army of the attack will have to determine the size of the work, the main directions for the development of this type of troops and assist in the optimal organization of personnel activities. all this will help contemporary graduates clearly identify the front of the work , the main directions of development of this type of troops and skillfully organize the service of the personnel , " the message reads .
The President of the total company noted the importance of maintaining a favorable climate for foreign investors and expressed hope for further development of cooperation.
As Fedorov noted, the Ural State University is preparing personnel in the field of entrepreneurship and services.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan considers it its civil duty to express its position on this important issue. the assembly of people of kazakhstan considers its civic duty to express the position on this fateful question .
- This year I initiated the implementation of five people's reforms aimed at further development of Kazakhstan.
The adaptation programmes implemented in the centres include legal advice, State language and Russian language instruction at will, vocational training, retraining and further training.
priority directions of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including for 2017-2018. Support of Kazakhstan's candidacy for the post of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
Thus, the rate for leasing agricultural machinery and special equipment at Kazagrofinance JSC, taking into account subsidies, will be 6.4% instead of 13.4%, "the report said.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the day of unity. i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the day of unity of the people !
the main crops of the rice region. rice is the main crops in kyzylorda region .
a few hours ago, the sacred symbol "Taikazan" was met on the border.
in fact, we attracted 30 people.
By the end of the first half of the year, due to the fact that the apartments will be ready, it is planned to allocate according to the act, Pavlodar, capital, Almaty, Alyma regions, "said the chairman of the board.
The President of Kazakhstan assured Nursultan Nazarbayev that he is in favor of a diplomatic settlement of the situation in Ukraine, noting that for this it is first of all necessary to fulfill the Minsk agreements.
A joint project of the Governor's Office of the region and the Mangistau Regional National Chamber of Entrepreneurs presents comprehensive educational programs for heads of regional companies.
having established the level of its protection, we will approve the text of the ballots, "the CEC secretary said at the meeting.
Dear producers produce high-quality and competitive products, then you will have the opportunity to work directly with Kazakhmys, "said the head of the partnership.
Abdikalikova spoke about the preparations for the celebration of the upcoming anniversary dates - the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In 2013-2014, 3 residential facilities were commissioned in the area of ​ ​ Aktobe, Taraz and Almaty.
also the main mechanisms of realization of the new economic policy "Nrla zhol" will be considered.
Recall, on behalf of the head of state, the implementation of the energy efficiency policy within the framework of the industrialization program has begun.
According to him, this document gives the employee confidence that no illegal personnel decisions will be made.
According to him, the documents will become a solid basis for strengthening close ties with other states, regional associations, and international organizations.
all necessary conditions for full-fledged work have been created here, now you need to qualitatively fulfill your duties and improve the health of the people, "the head of state said.
The program "Employment Roadmap 2020" creates great opportunities for the employment of Kazakhstanis.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, it will include 9 projects on grain storage, 3 projects on poultry farming, 2 projects on grain processing, 1 on meat processing, 1 on milk processing, 2 projects on vegetable storage.
Since the beginning of the industrialization program, new processing enterprises have been built in the region.
we checked the activity of teachers at the qualifying stage, took into account the places that they received at the olympiads and competitions. we allowed to compete only those teachers , who had participated and won at different competitions and in other contests .
Kazakhstan and foreign scientists tested the exit-poll methodology, which allows to obtain reliable data.
deeply aware that there will be no unity, "unity" is a great force to win all the difficulties and difficult times.
energy consumption growth as the economy developed was 4-6%. the annual growth rate of electricity is approximately 4-6 % .
Nursultan Nazarbayev met with the labor team and heads of production enterprises of the region.
Recep Erdogan on behalf of the Turkish people and on his own behalf congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, the organizers of the event are the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, the Consumer Rights Protection Committee of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the international public organization "Eurasian Society for Infectious Diseases" and the republican public organization "Association of Graduates of Kazakh National Medical University named after Asfendiyarov.
and m. Yesenbaeva and h. Sarikulia discussed draft bilateral agreements, in particular, agreements on trade and investment protection, as well as a convention on the avoidance of double tax.
It is worth noting that last year 100 laws were adopted, which became the main element in the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, the deputy said.
As akim of the city and chairman of the city branch of the party Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted, last year high rates were achieved in industry, construction, transport and trade, service system.
Senators also ratified the agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, disaster management.
this year is a year of inter-ethnic, social harmony.
Let's appoint a state prize for the best innovators, "said N. Nazarbayev.
To celebrate the anniversary, the Ministry of Defense plans to hold a military-patriotic forum in the capital in April. under the celebration of the anniversary the ministry of defence plans to hold the military and patriotic forum in astana in april .
In 1945-1954 he served in the People's Republic of China, in 1958 he graduated from the armored academy.
In 2014, 1,694 specialists were trained, which is 648 more students than in 2013.
In addition, many participants in the action provided monetary assistance to needy families, "the editor-in-chief of the Zvezda-Zvezda district newspaper sagadat musagalieva told Kommersant.
thanks to you and your maternal love for the child, we have high rates of demographic growth, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
funds were raised to replenish the working capital of the holding in order to finance the agro-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the financial recovery of the bank's entities, the national company said.
there is an agreement to transfer the southerners to the control of the Turks.
service of recipients of services at the place of residence (reception of documents and opening of an account) ensures the time of receiving the state service and reduction of costs, convenience, simplified procedure.
for the air force of Kazakhstan, this is not just a tradition, it is an important stage in training young pilots in flight.
The Secretary of State stressed that the Republic of Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the achievement of the goals and targets of the Millennium Development Declaration related to health, including the reduction of infant mortality, improvement of maternal health, the fight against out/live, tuberculosis.
Recall that the poster contest "Your voice is your future" started on March 17.
I think that the review presented today will be useful for Kazakhstan and the world community to learn and understand the energy market of our country, "said Energy Minister Vladimir Shkolnik.
participants of the Kazakh-Lithuanian project - professors of Vilnius Technical University named after Gediminas and a former prisoner of the steplag, journalist, writer A. Seikalis expressed confidence that the decision of Nursultan Nazarbayev to create a new public organization is fully justified.
then "taikazan" was presented to representatives of the South Kazakhstan region in order to increase the ranks of good deeds every day and continue trips around the country.
This is a common holiday that unites different ethnic groups, "he said.
In 2015, wool growth will be about 1.5%, in 2019 - up to 4.5%.	as the speaker stated this year gdp growth will amount 1.5 % and by 2019 the indicator will reach 4.5 % .	1,00
honor is more expensive for him than for everyone.	the reputation was the most important for him .	1,00
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Supporting the Use of Renewable Sources of Electric Energy" provides for a number of measures to develop the renewable industry and support investors.
Also in 2015 in the area of Kokshetau it is planned to implement 6 projects on the food belt in the amount of 7.4 billion tenge.
I, representing my native country in the international arena, showing the whole world what an athlete from Kazakhstan will be, pay special attention to a sense of pride and patriotism, responsibility. i feel a sense of pride , patriotism and responsibility when represent my homeland in the international arena and show to the world what it means to be a sportsman and boxer from kazakhstan .
and this queue will increase in the future, "he explained.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan of the industrialization program, a new mechanism for the development of medium-sized businesses will be introduced. a new mechanism on support the medium-sized enterprises is introduced under the second five-year plan , which is aimed at improving the efficiency of the business .
As the head of state noted, special funds are allocated from the state for the development of the production sector.
local content is one of the most important areas of state policy, an integral part of the industrial and innovative development of the country, ensuring the widest presence of domestic goods and services in the local market, "said B. Katamkulov.
Nr zhol heads of state", - the minister concluded.
This year we submitted to the Governor's Office of the region a proposal for a one-time allowance in connection with the memorable date. we made suggestions in the regional administration for one-time benefits this year , taking into consideration the anniversary .
The event was attended by a representative of the international fund "Eurasian Media Forum" Davletyarovets and executive director of the public fund "Way of Life" Nurbeks.
It is worth noting that in the armed forces of Kazakhstan all veterans of the Great Patriotic War are supported and always paid attention.
According to the Mayor's Office, the head of the city visited kindergarten No. 95 for 120 places, located in the Akbulak microdistrict of Alatau district, and nursery-garden No. 124 for 120 places in the territory of the medical university.
this bill was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to develop electronic government and increase the accessibility of citizens to services provided by the state.
Governor of Astana Adilbek Jaksybekov and Chairman of the Board of Astana Lrt LLP took part in signing the agreement.
infrastructure consists of railway infrastructure, internal engineering networks, fuel supply facilities, water treatment facilities, the 1st lifting pump, administrative buildings and engineering communications on the square.
main building, additional building, machine room, administrative and household complex, auxiliary building.
Former Chairman of the Ecu Parliamentary Assembly, President of the Institute of "Izamed" of the countries of Asia and the Mediterranean on inter-parliamentary cooperation r.millori noted that the extraordinary presidential elections in Kazakhstan are an example for other democratic countries.
As a result of the work carried out, out of 6,160 citizens who applied, 3,747 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 1,471 people received applications for changing their details, 942 villagers filed documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
today there are more than 40 thousand books and magazines, more than 101 thousand video, audio, photo documents and other traditional documents from the personal archive of the head of state, as well as about 700 different exhibits related to the life and political activities of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
products will be delivered to the regions of Kazakhstan and Russia.
The Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kabibulla Dzhakupov in his speech noted that the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Vietnam is a vivid evidence of the strengthening of bilateral relations between the parties and is a symbol of special friendly relations, trust and partnership of our countries, "the statement said.
development of cooperation is of interest for military education and mutual exchange at the level of military personnel from senior lieutenant to captain of military rank, platoon and company commanders.
During the session, the head of the region awarded a number of citizens with badges "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" and the gold medal "Unity."
in addition, the use of new technologies, according to preliminary estimates, will reduce budget expenditures by about 7-10 times.
The Deputy Minister noted that according to the results of 2014, it was clear that 73,200 km of roads are in unsatisfactory condition by 37%.
Kazakhmys is a leading company in the field of extraction and processing of natural resources, the largest copper producer in Kazakhstan.
monitoring on social networks covered 250 pages of more than 200 communities and opinion leaders, 30 user channels in the youtube video center, updates in the feed of current hashtags on Twitter.
The company adapts dpworld technologies to Kazakhstan conditions.
According to him, the project on the use of solar suckers is supported in East Kazakhstan and Kyzylorda regions.
According to the Russian politician, from the book you can learn about the life path of Nursultan Nazarbayev and the fact that this path was not silk.
Kyrgyzstan and the Russian Federation have been produced to date, "he said.
dear compatriots!
We believe that our action will contribute to the creative association of youth, "said the specialist of the Mangistau regional youth center" Dream "Nauryz Murat.
Currently, there are 527 pre-school institutions in the region, of which 259 kindergartens, 268 mini-centers with 43,392 children. nowadays there are 527 preschool institutions in the region , including 259 kindergartens , 268 mini-centers with a contingent of 43,392 children .
According to representatives of the Senate, during the conversation e. Mukayev noted that Kazakhstan is a supporter of the principle of openness in the framework of international cooperation to protect and support human rights.
The Kazakh holding, touching on the prospects of cooperation, expressed interest in long-term funding, as well as assistance in technical support for the development of a network of credit partnerships in the agricultural sector of the republic. with regard to the prospects of cooperation , kazakh holding expressed the interest in the direction of long-term funding , as well as assistance in the technical support of the development in the agricultural sector of the republic network of credit partnerships .
Also, the lower house approved in the first reading the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of special protection, anti-dumping and confiscation measures against third countries."
As a result of the work of the acceptance commission, an act of acceptance of the results on the completion of the project of the kazsat-3 space communication system was signed.
In accordance with the decision of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 20 December 2013, 20 military personnel were selected from the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan as military observers of peacekeeping missions and trained for service in Haiti, Western Sahara, Côte d'Ivoire and Liberia.
The goal of the project is to educate the younger generation in a patriotic spirit, increase their creative, intellectual level, the report said.
The Head of State noted that over the years of independence Kazakhstan has become a strong and stable country.
The aurora production complex is a domestic plant for the production of disinfectants and antiseptics for the needs of medical organizations, communal institutions, and the food industry.
one of them is the famous "Nesterov trap," the report said.
in the third section - "Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan - 20 years" - more than 90 books.
At the same time, he noted that these laboratories will be created for the new curriculum of Kazakh universities at the world level.
In total, for five days, fighters of 19 countries and 43 teams competed in 10 team stages and personal championships.
As a result, these discussions prompted deputies and leaders of political parties to bring public opinion to the political and legal field, "said Yerlan Karin in the Central Communications Service.
And in Kazakhstan there are many beautiful places, there are in each region, only it is right to organize, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
this book includes all citizens called up in wartime. all those who were drafted into the army were included in this book .
If leaders talk about how they solve the problems that are, then this is a new culture. when leaders discuss the urgent problem which were solved separately , this is new culture .
The author of the play "Bird of Happiness" is a famous writer, playwright dulat Isabek.
we have good grounds for further cooperation in connection with the transit of raw materials and minerals, industrial and road construction. we have a good basis for further interaction associated with the transit of raw materials and minerals , industrial and road construction .
According to the number of employees planned by enterprises during registration, 1,680 of all newly created legal entities are registered as small, 29 - medium, 9 - large enterprises.
their implementation will not reduce the level of employment of the population, and will also be a good incentive for further support of enterprises, private business and further building the economic potential of the country, "the b.saparbayev emphasized.
creative groups took part in festivals and competitions in Russia (St. Petersburg, Sochi, Orynbor, Kurgan, Naberezhnye Chelny), Turkey, Dagestan, the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) and won prizes.
The government and akims need to step up work in this direction, "N.Nazarbayev said.
not all countries of the world can successfully go through such a difficult situation. "
and the Nur Otan party, as one of the most influential political forces in the country, cannot stay away from this process.
pipeline network provides production of water supply, sewage, electrical installation pipes with diameter from 20 to 110 millimeters. the pipe line will ensure the production of water , sewer , and electrical pipe in diameter from 20 to 110 millimeters .
Today you are not spiritually oriented for the young Kazakh generation - the heirs of the great victory, "said the deputy chief of the general staff - the head of the department for educational and ideological work of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Muhammadzhan Talas.
at the meeting, the issue of dismissal for health, military-patriotic education of young people and increasing the prestige of military service was discussed.
The head of the region also got acquainted with the implementation of tourism and sports infrastructure projects.
In accordance with the concept, new terminals are integrated with railway, bus stations and a transport logistics center.
The national company has prepared a diverse program for guests and residents of the capital, a theatrical show, as well as the performance of soloists of the central ensemble of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan became its most interesting section. for visitors and residents of the capital of the national company prepared a varied program , " nail " which became a theatrical show , as well as an ensemble of soloists of the central ministry of defense .
According to M. Tusupkaliyev, in 2014 production enterprises and the economic sector of the region produced products worth 1473.5 billion tenge.
polling stations in Washington, New York and Ottawa will be closed at 6 a.m. on April 27 this year, "said the Secretary of the CEC of Kazakhstan.
N.Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future"
During the event, the first deputy of the East Kazakhstan regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan" nurlybek sherubayev congratulated the children on the holiday and handed them gifts.
he has a special job, there are no people who are engaged in this type of crafts, "said Kaliolla Akhmetzhan.
in addition, from next year, residents of the region will receive high-quality medical services in new institutions. in addition next year residents of the area will receive quality health care in the new health care facilities .
in particular, it is planned to begin this work in centers for the payment of pensions, district departments of employment and social programs, departments of medical and social expertise, hospitals and polyclinics, boarding schools for the elderly and the disabled.
The solemn event was attended by deputies of the parliament, elected ha-ha sultans, murat akhmadiyev, jumatai aliyev, egor kappel, who novel, kiktor kiyansky, akhmet murats, hope nesterov, zuhra sayapova, yuri Tymoshenko, rosacles of the Khalmurads and others.
As the head of the NPP noted, today all tourist facilities intend to take part in EXPO-2017.
The Academy also announced close cooperation with international expert, scientific, social and journalistic circles.
The extraordinary presidential election, held on April 26, set two records, primarily this indicates a large number of people. early presidential elections , held on april 26 , set 2 records .
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his next message to the people gave a new impetus to the further development of infrastructure and housing construction.	delivering the address , president nursultan nazarbayev gave a new impetus to the development of housing and infrastructure .	1,00
no park, no reserve.
this is our main goal.
this document contributes to the strengthening of political, cultural and humanitarian cooperation and bilateral relations in all areas.
in general, growth was about 6% and only in 11 months.
I think that harmony of interests is the most important thing, "he said.
"Thank you to your ancestors for winning!" Creative works were presented.
after the war, he served in the army for another five years.
The most important of them is a military parade.
in this regard, one of the main tasks of the national commission is to fully launch the huge potential of Kazakhstani women, as well as domestic and international non-governmental organizations, international women's organizations.
In addition, according to representatives of the department, work is currently underway to make changes and additions to the Performance 2020 program.
509.8 million tenge was also allocated for the prevention of possible emergencies and natural disasters.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the Deputy Prime Minister was presented with the investment potential of eastern Kazakhstan.
The interest of Kalamgers, students, university professors and representatives of general business was an impetus to continue this good tradition, "said Askar Matkenov, vice president of the Kazakhmys Corporation branch.
K. Tokayev informed his colleague about the plans of the nation - five institutional reforms, a new economic program "Nұrly zhol," which will take Kazakhstan to a new stage of development and allow it to become one of the most developed states in the world.
representatives of the Association of People's Healers of Kazakhstan, supporting the holding of presidential elections, noted that this will positively affect the preservation of stability, socio-economic development, the achievement of goals set in the main state programs initiated by the head of state.
The sides discussed topical issues on the international agenda, as well as the current state and prospects of bilateral relations, noting the need for political, trade, economic and cultural-humanitarian development between the two countries.
the produced products will be used as the main source of raw materials for Kazazot LLP.
considering the results of the study, we are still proposing, because it will be necessary to make changes to the state educational program.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan has all the necessary reserve, which will overcome difficult trends.
During the conversation, a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation was discussed, including organized transnational crime, cybercrime, terrorism and extremism, drug trafficking, concealment of funds received by criminal means.
In addition, he noted that the Tajik leadership also shows solidarity with the fulfillment of the tasks set in the framework of the Green Bridge partnership program.
at the meeting of the committee, the draft law "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the application of special protective, anti-dumping and compensatory measures against third countries" was considered in the first reading.
since this significantly contributes to the increase in housing construction under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
The head of the Greek ethnocultural association of elpids Olga Popandopulo noted that interethnic harmony, peace and stability are expensive treasures of all Kazakhstanis.
In the city of Kazalinsk, the Deputy Prime Minister visited the Kazalinsky enterprise engaged in the production of candy products and got acquainted with the implementation of the Employment Roadmap 2020.
The Single Program aims to ensure sustainable and balanced growth of regional entrepreneurship, as well as support for existing jobs and the creation of new permanent workplaces. The Single Program is intended at ensuring sustainable and balanced growth of regional entrepreneurship, as well as the maintenance of existing and creation of new permanent jobs.
Within the framework of the action, festive concerts will be organized, at which such celebrities as n.nusipzhanov, e.hasangaliyev, s.tynshtygulova, a.kurazbayev, r.rymbayev, m.zhunusov will perform.
there is a need to change the budget in the field of reduction, however, under the Nұr zhol program, the country expects great dynamics in the economy, "he said.
In accordance with the calendar plan of the main measures for the preparation and conduct of early presidential elections, the akimats provided the relevant precinct election commissions with updated voter lists according to the act, the report said.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 3090 citizens who applied, 1878 received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 718 people received applications for changing their details, 494 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
I am sure that under your leadership the republic will continue to progress towards socio-economic development and improving the well-being of citizens, "the telegram says.
in a difficult situation in the world, we are interested in getting your opinion on the prospects for further cooperation. against the backdrop of a difficult situation in the world , we are interested to know your opinion about the prospects of our future cooperation .
the second is the victory of the head of state, "said A.Piriev.
this association is an association of commercial and non-profit organizations in the field of protection of children's rights.
the new investor's plan is to participate in subsoil use projects for the production and processing of a private field with the necessary raw materials, which will provide the company with independent and stable work, as well as eliminate dependence on external suppliers.
lending currency - tenge.
As the Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan erlan Khairov noted, from today negotiations are underway with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this issue.
The First Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan heard a song dedicated to the hero of the Soviet Union, the people's hero Major General sagadat Nurmagambetov.
this allowance was paid to 65.8 thousand people.
therefore, our common goal is to save the family, "said B. Baibek.
particular attention was paid to the international agenda.
These cases of representatives of ethnocultural associations are a vivid manifestation of the good action kha-20 "and will continue in the future," representatives of the team noted.
white workers of Petrokazakhstan Kumkol Resor from the city of Kyzylorda fully approve of the decision to hold presidential elections and want the head of state himself to take part in them.
the introduction of the announced maratorio for inspections of small and medium-sized businesses contributed to improving the structure of inspections. due to the moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized business the structure of checks changed for the better , " tleumuratov stated .
Russian is the language of integration, these are our closest neighbors, interethnic relations.
Leaders of a number of ethnocultural associations of Almaty region noted that the republic flourishes and has everything necessary to improve the environment - human and material resources, forces.
During the discussion of the country's emergency preparedness, such as an earthquake, floods, floods, landslides, the parties considered seismic amplification, the deployment of emergency response centers and the provision of first aid.
The main purpose of the visit is to discuss topical issues of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and to exchange experience in the activities of the state financial system, the report said.
it is important that among them there were equal opportunities for us in the process of life path, learning, growth of profession and personality. along with that , we were particularly impressed by the creation of equal opportunities for the young generation in the life choices , studies , career , personal growth .
preliminary forecasts of the vote show that the residents of Kazakhstan support the preservation of peace and stability, the improvement of economic and social development, the foreign policy course, "the Minister said.
In his speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that all measures taken in Kazakhstan are aimed at improving the lives of citizens and families of the country. nursultan nazarbayev clearly said that everything that happens in kazakhstan is aimed at improving of the quality of life of each citizen , the family and the state in general .
The interlocutors also discussed issues of Kazakhstan's accession to the World Trade Organization.
in front of the monument to the Taigazan hakim raised the "batyrs."
During the operational activity, 200 new jobs were created, and by the beginning of construction there will be about 600 jobs, "the chairman of the board added.
In April, we sent more than 50 rear workers to the center for adaptation to boron, one-time assistance was provided to receive medicines.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has a national representation as a national body. the assembly of people of kazakhstan is as a national body of supranational popular representation .
The meeting also considered the draft law "On ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on readmission and the executive protocol on the procedure for the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on readmission."
the development of two innovative clusters as the basis of a knowledge-based economy.
500 new jobs will be created during construction, and after commissioning - 250.
through such exhibitions you can easily and easily tell about the culture of the country, traditions, memorable days in history.
there were few sisters, we have already managed to identify the injured, "recalls the stepanovna hope.
firstly, let me congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the 70th anniversary of the victory. first of all , i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the coming great big anniversary celebration - the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism in our homeland .
aa. Idrissov thanked Algerians for supporting the candidacy of the capital for the international specialized exhibition Expo 2017 and called for active participation in the preparation and holding of the exhibition.
At the same time, 22 projects are under implementation, of which 8 are planned to be launched this year.
we are the only ones linking our current well-being and the opportunity to make big plans for the future. only with you we associate our present prosperity and the opportunity to make big plans for the future .
because there is no such need to copy banks, and I think that this is our president who will initiate this initiative, "the Mayor of Almaty added.
representatives of Thai Buddhism regularly participate in the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, organized at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
He noted that 43 investment projects have been implemented in Aktobe in five years.
M. Zarif highly appreciated the initiative of the head of state to convene a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, as well as the actual contribution of Kazakhstan to the negotiation processes to resolve the Iranian nuclear program.
A four-story apartment building was built as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
I can say with confidence that today our state has formed as an economically stable state. today , i can safely say that our country establishes itself as an economically stable country .
The national vaccination calendar is the best in the CIS and meets the requirements of the WHO, "said the Vice Minister.
There are two reasons for this: first of all, our party put forward its candidacy for the April 26 elections.
The Afghan side expressed gratitude for the ongoing humanitarian assistance provided in the form of food and basic necessities, and for the funds allocated for the construction and reconstruction of socially significant infrastructure (secondary school, hospital, road, bridges, etc.).
Last year, the Accounts Committee carried out 25 control measures at 298 facilities worth 3.1 trillion tenge.
outstanding opera star, wonderful teacher, People's Artist of the USSR, hero of socialist labor, Lenin Prize laureate, cheerful and bright person.
The logo project is a circle that speaks of eternity and stability, "said the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhans.
for the anniversary holiday - the 70th anniversary of the Victory - two model laws "On the Memory of the Dead on the Way to the Defense of the Fatherland" and "On Patriotic Education" were developed.
P. Poroshenko emphasized the need to actively use the potential of interaction between the two states in trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian and other key areas.
on the main capital square "ate a az і" the military parade with participation of the head of state will be held.
If this rate continues, then from April we plan to reduce this figure to 12%.
Despite the decline in trade between our countries in the context of the crisis, I believe that the eurozone has a great future.
Secretary of State: "strengthening the family is the key to stability in society, that is, peace and harmony in the country!" - he said.
More than 250 veterans who took part in the Great Patriotic War from 14 regions and cities of the capital and Almaty will become honored guests of festive events dedicated to the Victory Anniversary in the capital on May 6-9.
affordable housing will be built at the expense of the National Fund through the white "Kazakhstan Mortgage Company."
1.4 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the construction of the alley named after D. Konaev.
our citizens vote for the first time at the embassies of Kazakhstan in such states as Brazil, Finland, Thailand, Croatia, as well as at consular offices in Antalya, Brest, Kazan, Tallinn and Urum, "he said.
The main purpose of the visit is the presentation to the Chancellor of Germany a. Merkel addressed the head of state to nominate Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, as well as to discuss the state and prospects of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries.
It was noted that Kazakhstan undertakes to hold fair, transparent and fair elections in full compliance with electoral law and attaches great importance to international observers.
amendments and additions to the current law.
Recall that the bill "On public procurement" was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
in order to encourage citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign citizens who have made a significant contribution to strengthening public harmony in the country, ensuring the unity of the Kazakh people, as well as in honor of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
the project will become an infrastructure platform for the further development of e-government in Kazakhstan.
According to Tatyana Kuzina, chairman of the Slavic Cultural Center public association, close cultural ties between states are an important resource that should be used to integrate the educational systems of Kazakhstan and Russia.
On the eve of the first day of army aviation training, thorough ground training, testing, training were organized.
M. Yesenbayev informed the head of the Thai energy institution about the current socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the situation in the oil and gas industry, the nuclear and coal industry, the concept of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transition to a green economy, the international exhibition expo 2017, familiarized with the basic principles of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meeting the Ambassador of Kazakhstan II presented the letter of the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions of the Kassyma-generous Tokayev with an appeal to take part in the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in Astana on 10-11 June.
the unity of the people was actually realized. the unity of the nation was shown clearly .
Last year, the cost of renting restaurants and catering establishments increased by 4.5%, renting production facilities - by 4.2%.
they differ from artists in other regions of the country.
The Center for Competition Protection and Development Policy of the Aldash Aitzhanov, in turn, spoke about amendments and additions to the competition law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting with the chairman of the km of the central bank, a conversation was held about the need to establish full-fledged ties between the national bank of Kazakhstan and the central bank of the km.
Kazakhstan has the potential to increase transportation volumes by more than 5 times. kazakhstan has the potential to increase the transit by more than five times .
"Today," Taikazan "has been returned to the capital," said the chairman of the Turkish ethnocultural association of the city of Astana, a member of the kha during the solemn meeting of the military piriev "Taikazan."
Recall that the head of state at the expanded meeting recalled that in today's world economy, the priority is the processing of agricultural goods and food production.
According to him, 50 legal documents have been developed, more than 200 regulatory legal acts have been prepared.
Senator A. Bzhizhanov, head of the interparliamentary cooperation group of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the People's Republic of China met with the deputy head of the international department of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, one of the leaders of the interparliamentary cooperation group of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the People's Republic of China chen fengxian.
Kazakhstan has ratified a number of conditions of the Hou (International Labour Organization) aimed at improving employment contracts and preventing industrial injuries.
in this context, the Kazakh diplomat noted that for two decades Kazakhstan has managed to create a unique model of political stability and interethnic harmony, based on the dynamic growth of the economy.
Recall that the Theater of Nations of Kazakhstan is called upon to unite the creative forces of Kazakhstan, to stage new performances demonstrating the desire of the Kazakh people for today's life and the future.
kazagromarketing "advises on subsidizing subjects in the field of the white uterus," the report said.
our front-line soldiers are an example of courage and courage. our veterans are role model , a model of courage and heroism .
According to him, the work on the construction of infrastructure itself requires the attraction of 1.8 trillion tenge.
All draft commissions are provided with the necessary equipment and specialists, "said the head of the department.
in addition, Wu Suan Hong expressed interest in establishing cooperation between the Association of Vietnamese Friendship and the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan.
in general, cocoons are grown in a greenhouse based on a substrate using the technology of small hydroponics, which allows you to receive products twice a year - from February to June and from August to December.
Kabibulla Zhakupov reported to the guest of honor on 5 institutional reforms of the President of Kazakhstan and the national plan for its implementation "100 concrete steps" and legislative support for these important initiatives.
For example, in 2011 about 660 thousand voters took part in the elections in Almaty, of which more than 90 percent voted for Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Governor's office reported.
it is to increase competitiveness, productivity, improve the structure of the economy, create new goods and provide new types of services.
thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, today Kazakhstan is the leader of economic growth. currently , due to wise policy of nursultan nazarbayev kazakhstan is a state , recognized by the international community , which has been able in a short time to become the leader of economic growth .
According to an international expert, in order to increase the benefits of wiidmb, it is necessary to pay attention to market demand.
operators have all the information about veterans of the region, thanks to which assistance is provided quickly and efficiently.
In particular, it was proposed that the "oil capitals" of the two countries will be considered as twin cities.
in addition, 2 officers of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan have served as military observers for the peacekeeping mission in Côte d'Ivoire (unoci) since March this year.
The head of state congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the holiday.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to participate in the qualitative performance of spring field work, ensure the further industrial and innovative development of the country, as well as the stability of its main economic indicators.
Of these, 7 projects were implemented in 2014 in the amount of 220.5 billion tenge related to the manufacturing industry.
The President recalled that since October 1 last year, 60 government functions have been transferred to the level of ministries and akimats.
As noted, more than 100 republican federations operate in the country, and in some of them there are no programs for accreditation of the authorized body, development and popularization of specialized sports.
two series of them are currently ready.
the work that the whole world is doing now.
Speaking about cooperation in the field of youth policy, the mayor emphasized the need to involve students in the project "volunteer school" as part of the creation of the volunteer corps of the International specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
Within the framework of the memorandum, we plan to support educational institutions, the field of social security, cultural facilities, sports and the improvement of settlements, "the Governor of the region noted.
In addition, another task of the bill is to involve the private sector in the management of state assets, reduce the burden on the budget, attract investments, etc.
after consideration in two readings of the bill "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Subsoil Use," the deputies sent amendments and additions to the meeting in accordance with the regulations.
In 2014 the money supply increased by 10.5% to 12,816.3 billion tenge due to growth of both external and internal assets of the banking system.
in addition, the bill introduces a new concept of "self-regulation of an organization," meaning an association or non-profit organization of a different legal type.
Despite the decrease in economic activity in the region, the meeting participants took joint measures to increase traffic on the Trans-Caspian international transport route to 5.5 million tons per year, the report said.
Ambassador D.Sareken, in turn, told the Malaysian guest about the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev.
The CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan received a draft decree "On approval of the model certificate of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
united by some principles, people work for money.
In general, his programs are aimed at the benefit of the people, "he concluded.
Vice Minister for Investment and Development Albert Rau and Chairman of the Industrial Development and Industrial Security Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Amaniyaz Erzhan Development
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the meeting discussed such issues as the right of children to equal opportunities, strengthening family health and social support, protection of motherhood and childhood.
I once again express confidence that a strategic partnership based on the commonality of linguistic, cultural and historical ties between our countries will develop in the future for the benefit of our peoples, as well as for the benefit of peace and stability in the region, "the telegram says.
246 athletes from 14 regions, cities of Astana and Almaty took part in youth championships of the Republic of Kazakhstan aged 10, 12 and 14 years.
R. Erdogan thanked for the respect and noted the importance of the activities of the educational institution in strengthening ties between Turkic-speaking countries.
to promote the use of information technology in courts. "
Given the past, we are well aware of the importance of living in friendship and unity today, "said the chaata develli.
these values are the symbol of the stability of the State.
At the same time, the chairman of the committee noted that the energy efficiency guarantee project will be aimed at improving energy efficiency, modernizing, technical assistance and strengthening the regulatory and legislative framework in this area, opening in the capital of the energy efficiency center about 70 schools, kindergartens, hospitals and facilities in Kazakhstan.
According to K. Tokayev, the basis of the inter-parliamentary dialogue is the "group of friends of Kazakhstan," which operates in both houses of the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is a member of the legislative assembly.
According to the mayor, in 2015 18,700 new jobs will be created in the capital.
representatives of the Belarusian delegation will get acquainted in the capital with the activities of the national scientific cardiac surgery center, the republican children's rehabilitation center and the republican diagnostic center.
at the expense of state support, 41.9 thousand square meters. m of housing with a plan of 34.4 thousand square meters. m or the plan was completed by 122%.
in particular, Nursultan Nazarbayev was shown a genomic laboratory and personal medical work.
During the visit, the head of state got acquainted with the layout of the future exhibition complex, including international, thematic pavilions, entertainment and services.
Also at the meeting of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan on April 7, on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan on April 7, a resolution was adopted on accreditation of another 65 observers from two international organizations and four foreign states.
During the conversation, the Kazakh diplomat informed about the new economic policy voiced in the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
they paid taxes totaling 4.5 billion tenge.
All Kazakhstanis perceived the holding of presidential elections as an important, very necessary decision at the present stage and giving a new and additional impetus to the further development of the country. all people of kazakhstan encouraged holding of the presidential elections as the important step , which will give new additional impetus to the development of the country .
Turkmen President expressed readiness for further development of fraternal relations between the two countries and the people.
According to the Director of the Institute, a special body has been identified - the National Commission for Modernization under the President of Kazakhstan.
Daud Shah expressed confidence that Kazakhstan will create all the necessary conditions for the supply of Afghan goods.
The volume of fics in the Kyzylorda region is the largest, which is 34.1%, "said M. Abylkasymova.
He also noted that improvement is necessary in each village, "the report said.
According to him, thanks to the creation of the chamber, it was possible to improve constructive relations between business and the executive branch at all levels.
I am proud that in our area there are such bright, especially gifted people. i am proud that there are so many bright , talented , creative individuals in the region .
Following the meeting, the main priorities of Kazakhstan's further cooperation with the European regional office on the improvement of the national health system, the implementation of the millennium development goals, as well as the development of primary health care were determined.
It should be noted that public control is widely used abroad, in which special organizations are created that study public opinion, supply it, evaluate, make proposals to improve the quality of public services, the Mayor of the capital noted.
we feel the importance and relevance of the institutional reforms proposed by the head of state. we note the importance and relevance of the institutional reforms of the head of state nursultan nazarbayev .
Deputy Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Special Representative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the nomination of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council Dariga Nazarbayev met with Kazakh students studying in Berlin under the state program "future."
wide and light rooms, dining room, laundry are created in the new dormitory.
He noted that before the extraordinary presidential elections, the villagers expressed confidence in the president and want to see the country as a guide.
the team must consist of three men and one woman.
It is important that they feel that they have support, "said Timur Kulibayev.
planting seedlings is a contribution to the future generation, the pride of our grandchildren, "said the director of the Eldar Aleubek friendship house
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that the most expensive object today is "kegok."
The President of the Portuguese Republic expressed confidence that anibal kawaku silva anibal kawaku silva will continue to expand the capabilities of Kazakhstan and Portugal to strengthen cooperation in the framework of bilateral relations.
such a measure will solve the problems of pensioners who have a long work experience but receive a low pension, determine the size of the pension, encourage them to participate in the pension system, "the deputy minister said.
In connection with the 70th anniversary of the Victory, at the expense of the local budget, the Governor's Office of the city will pay 1 million 100 thousand tenge to each veteran living in the capital, in addition, 100 thousand tenge is paid from the local budget to veterans and disabled people of the Second World War.
we hope that in the capital we will resolve all issues and sign an agreement on the Astana summit.
The main goal of the conference is to demonstrate modern technologies, to lay the foundation for the involvement of new material in human life. " kraulis.
The image (2nd five-year plan), aimed at 2015-2019, is distinguished by the growth of the processing industry, that is, the unification of political and business elites within the framework of the idea of ​ ​ industrialization, the creation of an investment hub in Kazakhstan, the introduction of international management standards, the creation of high-quality jobs, the agency reports.
The commander of the military unit 32355-k, senior lieutenant nurlan taupbergen and the head of the "eastern" regional military orchestra, captain marat sagyndykov, on behalf of all military personnel of the regional command, congratulated the veterans and handed them flowers and memorable gifts.
this is 1.2% more than in October last year.
In turn, OLS projects open up new investment opportunities, new sources of income for private entrepreneurs and contribute to the development of private entrepreneurship.
a number of military personnel for exemplary performance of official duties, exemplary military order and high performance in military competitions were encouraged by order of the Commander-in-Chief of the ground forces.
on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on my own behalf, I express my condolences to my family and friends, as well as to the entire Singaporean people, "the telegram says.
According to him, a special commission was created at the competition from representatives of culture, the national chamber, state bodies and public organizations.
Therefore, we carefully prepared this concert program, "said the head of the central ensemble of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan erkebulan Zhumakenov.
This is a high indicator compared to foreign countries, "he said.
what reduces the rule of law?
today work is underway in all areas.
this will give growth to the importance of increasing exports and replenishing the budget, "he said.
Road repair continues, "the head of the department added.
All products issued at the fair were 15-20% lower than market ones.
It was attended by 42 students from 27 universities of the republic and 3 students from higher educational institutions of the Russian Federation.
Currently, classes of a special company "Alpine" are being held at the training ground.
its design capacity exceeds 1 billion tenge, and blue fuel will be transported through it to six remote settlements at once: kensuat tasobo, dzheman, atibek, saikuduk.
Deputy Governor of Uralsk, employees of the Embassy and Consulate General of Astana and the creative group "eagle," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan said.
Before the start of the session, the CEC did not announce the agenda, but this does not require the law, "the report says.
it is planned to automate the process of issuing loan applications and providing state subsidies to white financial institutions "kazagro ubh."
Kazagrofinance also receives and considers applications for the construction and modernization of a granary in the framework of increasing wheat storage capacities.
The main goal of the event is a comprehensive test of combat training, a test of the readiness of military units to carry out a combat mission, cohesion between them, "said Major General Aviation.
According to the director of the department, 800 contracts over 4 years will attract 10 people, this is 8 thousand jobs.
the number of recipients of state targeted social assistance decreased by 16.6% and amounted to 8.1 thousand people, the number of low-income citizens decreased by 13.7% and amounted to 21.8 thousand people.
In this context, the importance of holding the 6th meeting of the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental council this year was noted.
Also, according to Mr. Shnkeev, the implementation of the first potential projects will be stopped.
And given the fact that our women are female partners, one cannot but say that they have great merit in conducting the foreign policy of our state, "he concluded. idriss.
Representatives of diplomatic missions, members of parliament, representatives of state and non-governmental organizations, cultural and sports figures, leaders of public organizations, residents and youth of the city, schoolchildren and teachers took part in the landing of the alley.
The main direction of the program is the effective regulation and regulation of the activities of natural monopolies, "said M. Susainov.
and personally I, and the government, and the Ukrainian people underestimate this.
including a special project "Prosperous" for young people.
The Ministry of National Economy, together with the akimats of the regions, constantly monitors prices and continues to work on the formation and use of regional stabilization funds for food products.
agreed with the Advisory Committee on Electric Power to the Government, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia.	the document nodded through the ministries of energy of armenia , belarus , kazakhstan and russia , as well as the advisory committee on electric power under the eec .	1,01
Kazakhstan continues cooperation with Singapore, joint actions, in particular, improve contacts on consultations and the development of a new model of the economy, "said the chairman of the committee.
The transition of polyclinics to mixed-type work began in 2005 as part of the State Program of Health Reform and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2005-2010.	the transition to a mixed type of clinics work began in 2005 under the state reform and development program of health 2005-2010 .	1,01
at the same time, the deputy noted that parliament and the government are well aware of the need to finance, first of all, the agricultural sector in the modern conditions of the economy.	the mp said that the government and the parliament understand full well that first of all it 's necessary to maximize the financing of agriculture in the current economic environment .	1,01
Guests of the event attended a concert of students of the college named after M. Tolebaev, nine people "and other national games.
In general, it is necessary to increase processing and increase the added value of agricultural products, "the head of state said.
it is a good initiative that needs to be developed and strengthened. this is a good start that needs to be developed and strengthened .
770 new enterprises were built, 75 thousand jobs were created.
Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia use a single customs code and coordinate their macroeconomic policies.
To summarize the results of the work done in the framework of the school-university program, discuss issues and prospects for cooperation at the university, representatives of the university, the city department of education and the director of schools gathered.
As part of the expanded chernozem, the government plans to increase the volume of gas produced at the field and consider new possibilities for processing liquid hydrocarbons, "said B. Sagintayev.
the population is growing in the village. the population is growing steadily .
milking is not only a gold sewing technique, it is a special palsaf.
I know this country personally. ukraine is close to kazakhstan .
In addition, we are on the verge of joining the World Trade Organization.
We believe that this is a fairly large investment for the development of science and the development of universities, "said T. Balykbaev.
we proudly recall the exploits of our ancestors that destroyed their lives and health, "the ambassador emphasized.
unity, stability, tolerance, universal labor, patriotism.
deepening of integration processes between Kazakhstan and Russia will allow to expand Kazakh-Tatar relations as much as possible. the deepening of mutual integration between kazakhstan and russia greatly expands kazakh-tatarstan relationship .
I wish the number of our citizens to decrease, I consider it my sacred duty to protect the calm of our homeland, "he said.
today we are witnessing the need for these ideas and the fact that they are actually welcomed and developed, "said V. Sadovnichy.
In Uralsk, within the framework of Kazakh-Russian cooperation in the field of the consulate general of the Russian Federation, a collection of art, educational literature and dictionaries of the university was presented, the report said.
the consumer needs safe products, and the business must fight for the consumer, for safe products, "said A. Matishev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the parties discussed issues of energy cooperation between the two countries, including the prospects of using the sea port of Constanta for the export of Kazakh energy carriers.
relations between Kazakhstan and Japan are developing not only in the political, but also in the socio-economic sphere, cooperation in this direction has risen to a new stage. relations between kazakhstan and japan are developing in political and also in socio-economic fields .
Representatives of the two districts also exchanged views at the round table "Peace and Harmony - Elections in Kazakhstan."
thanks to the policies of our state, Kazakhstan is developing rapidly. due to the policy of our president nursultan nazarbayev kazakhstan develops rapidly .
also in Zhambyl, Akmola, North Kazakhstan regions there is a wind farm.
Of course, this is not an easy question.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the main task in the framework of the g-global project was to create the necessary platform for discussing current economic issues, a joint search for approaches to the manifestations of the global crisis with the involvement of a wide range of participants.
According to the CEC, as of April 10, 2015, there are 9 million 514 thousand 988 voters in the country who have the right to vote.
about 2,000 representatives of student, sports, creative and working youth.
On April 16, 2015, Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan Sagintayev, together with Deputy Ministers of Internal Affairs and Energy, Akim of Karaganda Region and Chairman of the Committee on Water Resources flew over Karaganda and Akmola Regions. april 16 , 2015 , first deputy prime minister of kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev , the deputy minister of internal affairs , the governor , the chairman of the committee on water resources overflew the territory of karaganda and akmola region .
At the same time, at the presidential elections in Kazakhstan today, the head of state expresses support for the candidacy of N. Nazarbayev, "said the chairman of the party of patriots of Kazakhstan Gani Kassymov.
he is in the third year of the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications.
M. Zarif noted the high level of relations between the two countries.
in general, the socio-economic updated forecast of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 is formed taking into account preliminary data on the development of sectors of the economy for 2014 and the current situation in world commodity markets at the prices of main export products.
The Kazakh delegate took part in the meeting of the committee on budget and taxes during his visit to the State Duma of the Russian Federation.
this document contained all the basic rules necessary for the country's economy, business, such as the protection of the domestic market and trade in goods.
President of the Ukrainian sports federation "universal fight" A. Kondrashov drew attention to the fact that under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the assembly became a national institution of peace and harmony, gaining a purely popular character.
The parties noted the importance of this meeting in exploring new approaches in the field of judicial proceedings, as well as the exchange of information and achievements in relation to the judicial system.
also, the president of Abu Nazarbayev University, e., joined the commission as a foreign consultant.
national teams in all sports included in the confederation will train there.
Since then, people from other regions of the country have come to us, and today we are completely resolving the issue of housing the remaining veterans, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
According to the migration police, the number of registered migrant citizens in the country amounted to 3006 people, and for living in other regions of the country - 2782 people, in the migration balance - 224 people.
today, based on tolerance and consent, we are confidently going to the future, "the head of state said.
aa. "the relevance and timeliness of this document, which provides for solving the socio-economic issues of the country in difficult times."
A feature of the meeting in Moscow was the participation in plenary meetings of representatives of security services of such states as Afghanistan, India, Iran, Mongolia, Pakistan, which are observer states of the Shu.
I agree to hold the next meeting on 30 May 2015 on Monday.
the document provides for amendments and additions to the Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments to the Budget" (Tax Code), the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offenses, as well as amendments and additions to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on advertising" and "on gambling."
our institution is actively in contact with the scientific community of Kazakhstan, there are currently organized single conferences, internships and an exchange of delegations, "said E. Bazhanov.
All the most interesting began from 8:00, at 10:00 the passages of the first stage were handed over, the second stage lasted from 10:15 to 12:15, the third turn with color from 13:00 to 15:00, the fourth - from 17:00 to 19:00, "he said.
On the agenda, during the talks, issues of visa facilitation between Kazakhstan and the European Union and cooperation in the field of readmission and law, as well as in a number of other areas were discussed.
It should also be noted that the participants of the action can post their photos on social networks # by voting # my golosuem za # mychoice.
it will be attended by servicemen of the central apparatus of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, located in the capital, the general staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, structural units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, military units.
Kazakhstan-made products are in great demand among the Prime Ministers.
The close program of majilismen is expected to participate in the III international forum "Economic Future of Eurasia," where the speaker of the House of Cabibollas of the Jacupes will speak.
your area is a sacred place that gave rise to clusters of great people. your region is a blessed land , has given birth to great people .
The forum was attended by famous artists and cultural figures, scientists and writers, heads of cultural objects, heads of educational and creative associations.
achieving the task is possible only with the unification of the business environment and the strength of the state. it is evident the achievement of this ambitious goal is possible due to consolidation of efforts of the state and business environment .
Last year, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Football Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan signed a memorandum on the development of football in educational organizations.
According to the Chairman of the National Bank, in 2014 economic growth exceeded 4%, inflation amounted to 7.4%.
Kazakhstan is developing many effective tools for SME development, and this is not the first year. kazakhstan always creates effective instruments to support smes .
The main thing that will contribute to solving problems, "said the director of the island fish processing plant.
xa xxii The session demonstrated its viability in our country as an example of ethnocultural tolerance and harmony in a multinational State. the xxii session of the apk summed up to the fact that today 's the idea of interethnic tolerance , peace and harmony in our country as a model in a multinational state has been triumphed .
information and training activities, as well as the implementation of the pilot implementation of hassas at enterprises, are carried out within the framework of the project "Technology transfer and institutional reform in the health sector" implemented by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Bank and its subcomponent "Food safety within the framework of WTO accession."
about 250 thousand residents of the region were covered by physical education and sports, which is 7.6 thousand more than in 2013.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the state adequately evaluates citizens who have distinguished themselves with their work and success.
scientists call the sculpture "playing maulen."
The head of state noted the high level of friendship and trust between the two countries.
Providing services to citizens (accepting documents and opening accounts) does not save costs and time for obtaining public services, providing comfort and simplified order of their residence.
there is one paragraph in the treaty according to which states decide on joint defense in the event of the occupation of one of them, "the president said.
The "Kazakh house" on the festival site featured exhibits demonstrating the traditions and customs of the Kazakh people, national clothes, photographs telling about the sights and nature of the country.
opening the meeting, Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerbolat Dossayev noted that Kazakhstan and Russia are strategic partners and historical allies.
Otherwise, recently, the number of various diseases and epidemics has been increasing in schools, "he said.
we go to a high-tech level. we get to a high-tech level .
Holding an international scientific and practical conference gave a great impetus to Kazakh-Russian relations, the report said.
the law aims to improve legislation on insurance and Islamic finance.
The head of state also signed laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Organization of the Integrated Currency Market of the Member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States," "On Ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons," "On Ratification of the Extradition Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary."
Nursultan Nazarbayev also got acquainted with the work of the hospital, talked with members of the team and medical workers of the region.
our country was not known as a large energy state, a country for the extraction of uranium ore, a grain exporter, a country with rich natural resources. our republic is known thanks to many aspects - energy , uranium ore , wheat , vast natural resources .
During the six years of implementation of the Regulated Tariffs Program, the volume of investments in the electricity sector increased. during six years of realization of the program of maximum tariffs , the annual investment in the power industry has increased five times .
only through respect and tolerance will the country remain stable. thanks to respect and tolerance to each other we maintain a stable development of the country .
2.4 trillion tenge is allocated from the national budget to finance projects in this direction.
innovator is a new type of profession.
Representatives of the assembly also take an active part in events dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 170th anniversary of Abay Kunanbaev, the 180th anniversary of the miracle of Valikhanov.
units of the paratroopers-attack aircraft of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and the special forces group began preparations for a special operation together with a contingent of five states (Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan).
The Kyzylorda Region Business Service Center has signed a tripartite agreement on guaranteeing Business Roadmap 2020.
low-income residents, elderly people, orphanages, boarding schools.
In addition, the gold mining factory of Auliegoldmaining LLP and the storage complex of the class "a" grain logistics LLP "in the capital were opened in the North Kazakhstan region.
The Chairman of the Senate expressed the opinion that the visit of the head of state will give a great impetus to the development of cooperation between the two countries in various areas.
Noting the role of the chemical industry in the entire economic development of production in Kazakhstan, he noted that the achievements of Abaidildin chemistry determine the competitiveness of industries such as mechanical engineering, automotive, aircraft, energy, forestry, light industry and agriculture.
the elections showed the unity of the people - 97.7% of the votes given to the Head of State, "he said.
over the past ten years, Kazakhstan's economic growth has doubled, thus becoming one of the 10 countries with an active economy in the world, "K. Makimov said.
According to the head of the region Danial Akhmetov, the project is planned to be launched in the summer of this year.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. i am submitting a proposal to appoint deputy chairwoman of the assembly of people of kazakhstan lyubov ni .
It will also be aimed at subsidizing the production of beef, poultry, "he said.
and 2.6 million tenge was spent on street lighting.
At the same time, it should be noted that 19 billion tenge of taxes were paid by Aea White Guard enterprises, "said the chairman of the board.
As the deputy of the Senate noted, the current new conditions require the adoption of operational measures for the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program.
The annual inclusion of new irrigated land was made possible through private investment and public programs, "the Governor of the region noted.
Recalling the existing burden of World War II, he wished the further prosperity of independent Kazakhstan and the happiness of a peaceful life in the open air.
the organization of the elections was at a high level. the organization of the elections was at high level .
the people had exercised constitutional law. the population carried out a constitutional right .
I come to Kazakhstan with great pleasure.
The form created for the dollar showed its instability, "said the head of state.
52 of them from CIS observer missions, 7 from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking States, as well as two observers from the Romanian and Swiss confederations and one each from the Kingdom of Sweden and the Republic of Uzbekistan.
professional public activities and the priority of the law create favorable conditions for economic reforms for the accelerated formation of the middle class. professional civil service and the rule of law , create conditions for the implementation of a set of economic reforms in order to accelerate the formation of the middle class .
veteran this year turns 90 years old. the veteran is 90 years old .
For us, this measure is of great importance.
our country is ahead of the CIS countries.
During the meeting, issues of developing international cooperation with the main trading partners of each member state and the entire union were discussed.
the President of Kazakhstan successfully fulfilled all the instructions.
Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kingdom of Thailand - Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN Marat Yesenbayev and Ambassador of the Russian Federation to the Thai Kingdom - Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to the UN Kirill Barsky.
in particular, the search for new sources of income and the adoption of measures to minimize costs to increase income, intensifying work with public-private partners, reducing the number of festive events, controlling the consumer price index, especially socially significant goods, as well as checking utility prices for an investment plan, this year was instructed to create at least 20 thousand jobs.
In addition, it is noted that it is planned to begin processing potatoes: washing, drying, sorting.
We call on the entire Kazakh people, political parties, the civil sector and patriots of the country to support the initiative to hold early presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan! " - said in the appeal.
Implementation of projects on calculations will ensure employment in Kazakhstan of 5.5 thousand people and save shippers costs in the amount of 14.6 billion tenge.
Archivists are looking for a new methodology and methods for working with large volumes of published and unpublished data sources, checking their reliability and reliability.
According to him, sowing work is underway in local points of Akmola region.
As the Speaker of the Senate noted, the deep legal mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia was the reason for the signing by the two ambassadors of an agreement on neighborhood and alliance in the 21st century and its ratification by parliaments.
Nursultan Nazarbayev wished Dr. Meteuron good health and dedication, success in responsible activities, and the friendly people of Great Britain - well-being and well-being.
the conference will be held in Kazakh, Turkish, Russian, English and modern Turkic.
the dialogue of peace, cultures and religions was recognized as a fruitful experience, and the Kazakh model itself has become familiar at the international level today, "said Mr. Chugkin.
During the meeting, the issues of maintaining equal competition in cross-border markets, anticompetitive consent and coordination of economic activities, economic entities were discussed.
As part of the competition, tankers must successfully complete all four stages (individual race, sprint and pursuit, sports stage, relay race).
dear fellow countrymen!
Note that at the end of the meeting, Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that the International Turkic Academy is an important intellectual platform for the implementation of the national idea of ​ ​ "Eternal Country" and the message "Strategy-2050," "Nұr path is the way to the future."
Today among us there are veterans of the Great Patriotic War, when they are alive, we cannot forget about this cruel war, "said Mikhail Bocharnikov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Russian Federation to Kazakhstan.
Also, the Central Election Commission decided to refuse to register a candidate for president of the Republic of Kazakhstan due to non-compliance with the Constitution and the requirements for presidential candidates of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
the created sports council contributes to the development of a mass sports movement among military personnel and their families, young men before conscription, actively promoting a healthy lifestyle and the achievements of army athletes.
now I am engaged in restoration of the canvas. now i work on the restoration and recovery of the pattern bedspreads .
The head of state drew attention to the fact that the interaction between the two countries may have additional dynamics in industry, transport and transit, and energy sectors.
At the first meeting of the Coordinating Council for Forced Industrial Development this year, 7 projects were approved for a total amount of about 4 billion tenge.	seven projects worth about four billion tenge were proposed to be included in the industrialization map at the first meeting of the coordination council on forced industrial development this year .	1,02
the winners were awarded diplomas and valuable gifts - household appliances, a tablet and a phone.	the winners were awarded diplomas and valuable gifts , including - electronics , tablets and phones .	1,02
therefore, this exhibition aroused great interest for me.	therefore this exhibition was very interesting .	1,02
So, in 2015, under the leasing program of equipment for harvesting, the advance payment was reduced by 10% and its maturity was extended until November 15 of this year, "said A. Zhuvashev.
East Kazakhstan State Technical University named after D.Serikbaev and Pavlodar State University named after Tsoraigyrov will train specialists for mechanical engineering, metallurgy, energy and petrochemistry.
in addition, the people's representatives considered the bill "On the ratification of the agreement between the Kazakh and Hungarian republics on the transfer of detainees."
The head of state also drew attention to the need to develop transport infrastructure in the country.
we developed in accordance with the principles of the constitution, "said the deputy.
products produced by our entrepreneurs should not be inferior to anyone, entrepreneurs should strive for it, "added Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in addition, according to Kaletaev, a plan has been developed to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
According to operational data, exports amounted to 23-24%, exports - 70%, foreign investments in the economy of Kazakhstan - 24%, "he said.
President of the group of international companies I. Makarov noted that the results of the popular vote in the elections once again proved high confidence in the President of Kazakhstan and his policies.
In his congratulations, Hungarian President J.Ader noted that Kazakhstan is a strategic partner of Hungary in the Central Asian region.
The full-time session of the meeting was devoted to discussing the stabilization of Afghanistan, including the development of regional cooperation, the fight against drug trafficking in the period after the withdrawal of the international coalition forces from Afghan territory.
The Chinese leader highly appreciated the contribution of the Kazakh president to strengthening independence and sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
politics, economics, culture and education. i am sincerely glad to continue our relations in politics , economy , culture and education .
Recall that in a message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014, President Nursultan Nazarbayev proposed to prepare and adopt the patriotic act "Eternal Country."
railways from Kazakhstan to the Persian Gulf will contribute to strengthening economic ties.
With the active participation of the Organization of Women Couples in Kazakhstan, a strategy for gender inequality for 2006-2016 was adopted.
It is planned to build a new system for the accumulation of well products, high-pressure facilities, infrastructure and auxiliary facilities, "said the school.
The head of state noted that he receives many letters of congratulations from villages, the plants, factories, teachers, youth, law enforcement agencies.
T. As Kulibayev noted, the Atameken National Economic Chamber was created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and became the foundation of the current chamber.
they will be printed on banners, brought to military units throughout Kazakhstan and solemnly presented to the public in Astana with the participation of military personnel.
we are pleased that we have signed a document that opens up new opportunities for compliance with the law and order. we are delighted to sign these documents , which offer good opportunities for the establishment of an effective mechanism for cooperation in the field of law and order .
The presentation of the business support program aroused great interest among entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs asked questions about participating in the selection of programs.
this step will make the public service an open and competitive system.
language requirements have not been changed this year, "he continued.
Nursultan Nazarbayev set tasks to eliminate three-shift training, solve priority issues in preschool institutions, as well as develop the system of vocational education.
In addition, as part of the state program, it is planned to build residential buildings for 3 stages of the Akku microdistrict and build 6 houses for 60 apartments out of 34 microdistricts.
Research centers are conducting research in priority areas for the country: energy, mechanical engineering, deep processing of raw materials, information and communication technologies, life science.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the need for high-quality and timely spring field work.
this means that joint projects and exchange of experience will be implemented in the future.
The deputy from Latvia to the European Parliament, the head of the delegation of the European Parliament for Central Asia and the grigule noted that the voting process was organized at a high level.
Starting tomorrow, we are starting to create special commissions and implement these reforms. we are starting the implementation of these reforms and the creation of a special commission .
For this, all conditions are provided in our region, "said the head of the region.
At the same time, we should not forget about making our contribution, "said Bolat Zhanadilov.
taimbet garden,
During the event, a concert program organized by schoolchildren was presented to the audience.
also in the innovative sphere (mobile and multimedia technologies, nano- space technologies, robotics, genetic engineering, the discovery of the energy of the future), the industry department said.
at the meeting of the committee, the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Issues of Legal Regulation of the Field of Intellectual Property" was also considered in the first reading.
To date, its acceleration can be expected from the financial sector, tourism, professional sphere, real estate, health care and education, "he said.
This project will allow the head of state to implement the new Kazakhstan policy "nұrly zhol" and will lay the foundation for the development of the economic belt on the silk road of the Chinese President Xi Jinping.
two days earlier, 100 concrete steps were announced to implement 5 institutional reforms. two days ago the program 100 concrete steps was published .
The program is aimed at opening the country's single market, "said M. Mukhanov.
Also a.Isekeshev got acquainted with the results of works on restoration and modernization of production of Kazazot LLP participating in the industrialization program.
The Government of Kazakhstan decided to provide financial support to the Chernobyl Shelter Fund and to provide a share of one million euros for the full completion of international projects at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.
Funding for these projects is currently envisaged.
One of the largest projects of the Central Asian regional economic cooperation is the reconstruction project of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor, which will significantly increase the traffic intensity in the Kazakhstan part of the international transit corridor and, accordingly, increase the transit cargo turnover, which will significantly increase the revenue part of all levels of the budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in part of her party life, she studied agriculture and educated business leaders.
Changes are also provided for holding open hearings and annual reporting to the consumer, accepting and considering the consumer's complaint, protecting consumer rights, "the committee on economic repair and regional development said in a statement.
The delegate includes Alexander bugs - the head of the Russian Federation, Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, tsunekazu takeda - chairman of the Olympic Committee of Japan, a person - a representative of international athletes.
The total cost of the project in the residential area amounted to 294.9 million tenge, the length of the line amounted to 31.1 km, and it is planned to complete the line this year.
The event was attended by members of the kha, representatives of state bodies, higher educational institutions, public figures of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of scientific and creative intelligentsia, readers of national academic libraries.
in addition, Kazakhstanis showed great dedication, working in the rear to remember the army with fuel, weapons, ammunition, food and clothing.
despite all the obstacles, we must support this organization and make it viable and attractive for everyone, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This is Kazakhstan.
more than 5,000 military personnel, about 220 units of modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aviation equipment took part in the large-scale march.
with its help, a client of a national transport company can pay for cargo transportation services within five minutes, and transfer Kazakhstan Temir Zholy money to a single personal account, "the report said.
aa. Idrissov thanked his colleague for his significant contribution to strengthening and expanding partnerships between the two states, the department said.
538 million tenge was spent on information technology, and 57 million tenge was spent on the video surveillance system, "the Governor's Office added.
and promising areas of cooperation covering the implementation of various investment projects.
French director R. Geselbash congratulated the head of state on the results of the presidential election and wished success in the further development of Kazakhstan.
According to the older generation, voting for the future president of Kazakhstan is a civic duty of every Kazakhstani.
consumers can sign up for online publications, track their mail by personal numbers, order goods on postmarket.kz site and speak Skype.
this method is based on the simple work of the state apparatus. the basis of this method is simple and clear hierarchy of indicators of the government apparatus .
a number of large-scale projects are planned in the field of agriculture in the region. we implement a number of projects in the agricultural sector .
therefore, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan is an important body of the state, uniting all ethnic minorities, all religious denominations.
As noted in the report, the event was attended by the heads of Kazneftegaz, central state bodies and representatives of domestic oil refineries.
the rest spend the night with relatives. "
212 443 125 tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of the house.
after consideration in two readings, the senators adopted the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on restricting state participation in entrepreneurial activities."
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, an exhibition of student projects has been organized as part of the conference.
As noted in the Almaty film of the party "Nұr Otan," the event was attended by the chairman of the district council of veterans K. Zhanasbekov, the head of the department of internal policy of the state.
the organization of language learning is carried out through the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, "said the head of the kha nazipa secretariat.
war veterans, rear workers, servicemen of the Taldykorgan garrison units, schoolchildren and pupils of military-patriotic clubs were invited to the concert.
unique archival documents, front stories, musical compositions, etc., were published on the site.
the Deputy Prime Minister also addressed the flood problem.
According to him, the mood of the Kazakh people on election day was increased.
The action was supported by Green Land LLP and the Foundation of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation, the library reported.
with the dire consequences of the war.
The projects were launched on January 1, 2014.
for the courage and bravery of a warrior, the Fatherland awarded him the Order of the Red Star, medals "For Military Merit," "For Courage and Bravery."
the most discussed and relevant topics raised during the seminar-meeting, legal and documentary support, compilation of voter lists, participants in the electoral process, participants in the electoral process, increasing the effectiveness of interaction between local and international observers with election commissions, state bodies and non-governmental organizations, the activities of election commissions on the organization and conduct of voting.
the peculiarity of our work is that it is aimed at the final result.
work continues on the modernization of the machine and tractor fleet.
shanyrak is a symbol of unity, unity, peace and harmony in the country.
In 2015, the government was instructed to optimize costs by 10%.
The purpose of the festival is to preserve the cultural and linguistic diversity of the country, unique enrichment of cultures, strengthening the mentality of interethnic harmony of the people of Kazakhstan.
Chile recognizes Kazakhstan as a modern and competitive country, which occupies a special place in the world community. "
Kazakhstani sailors will fight for first place with Russian, Azerbaijani and Turkmen servicemen.
According to the Minister, in order to develop the bill as a comparable type of procurement, an analysis of purchases of samruk treasury, the use of natural resources, the subject of natural monopolies, national companies and pharmaceuticals was carried out.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan thanked all participants of the Kazakh-Spanish film "Missing in Karaganda" and representatives of the garden who drew attention to this topic.
The participant may choose the session he wishes, during which he is given 15 minutes in advance and is warned of the start of the session at 15 minute or of a change in the order of the program. user can choose one or another session and 15 minutes in advance he will receive the notification about the beginning of the session , or about the changes in the schedule of the program .
To date, issues on land allocation are being agreed with local executive bodies that supported the project, "the report said.
This system is installed at all stations in the region.
all of the above public services were delivered electronically through the "e-government" portal.
these indicators, of course, are very small, and we are aware of the need to increase and strengthen their requirements.
since the whole world is gathering on this site, people should support the holding of EXPO-2017. "he said.
during daily exercises, the requirements of the combat charter are worked out, that is, a harmonious and intense step, maintaining brightness, a smooth pace and rhythm.
The faction of the party "Nұr Otan," as the main resource of the party, calls on Kazakhstanis, public organizations, youth to support this initiative.
One of them is a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
Thus, a total of 2 thousand 832 citizens were employed during 2014, "said A. Tukeshev.
At the same time, according to M. Tsygenov, last year the number of applicants to the court significantly decreased in the regions of the country - in South Kazakhstan region, West Kazakhstan region, the capital and Almaty.
today is not easy for all countries and peoples of the world.
additional organizers of the event were the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Council under the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Kazakhstan Union of Lawyers and the penal reform international representative office in Central Asia.
since that time, his life has been connected with this beautiful city in which kind, fraternal people lived, "says pinelope panathaevna.
In addition, two veterans living in the capital will be reimbursed for travel, food, accommodation to participate in the parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in Moscow.
according to them, recently the significantly increased Eurasian space makes Kazakhstan the most attractive for German investments.
We are confident that for the future of our children and grandchildren, who strengthen the ideas of Kazakhstan, peace and unity, you will bring our country to even higher heights, the letter says.
For the implementation of this project in the Zhetikarinsky district, together with the limited liability partnership Kazyr Agro, appropriate work will be carried out with local executive bodies.
In the future, we plan to work with all banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said Talgat Ismagambetov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of National Information Technologies JSC.
The Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission noted that the voting results clearly demonstrated the high level of confidence of citizens of Kazakhstan in the head of state, his activities and initiatives for the further development of the country.
this is the chemical, oil and gas, construction, transport sectors of the economy.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres, and also noted the need to intensify trade and investment cooperation between the two states.
I am surprised that each of them was given the opportunity to speak, "said A. Vidyakin.
"- shared her impressions of the meeting with the chairman of the Turkish ethnocultural association" Akhyska "and the representative of the youth league" white sail "eulfy farman.
In fact, as of April 16, 132 objects were released, of which 68 were sold.
this is only the beginning of tree planting, and the general landscaping project of the Zhezkazgan zone is designed for 2-3 years.
Kabibullah Jakupov noted that Turkmenistan is a fraternal country of central Asia, a friendly neighbor, and a strategic partner for Kazakhstan.
this direction will be 3 times shorter than the sea, "said the leader of the nation.
we consider all conditions for strengthening the role of women in modern society. according to leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev we will continue to create all conditions to the role of women in the country increased .
The year of unity is the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, "said E. Togzhanov.
To date, 153 veterans of the Great Patriotic War are veterans of civil protection bodies, of which 26 participants in hostilities and 127 home front workers.
As the President noted, 2015 is the year of kha and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in the case of a non-working electronic service of the court cabinet, claims and applications can be submitted through the web portal "e-government."
the judicial work has improved considerably. the justice administration quality has improved .
If we count this, then we will have a 2000-year history. we didn 't have another history , but now we have to study it in depth .
Such a project is being implemented for the first time in the history of Kazakhstan.
The updated revenue volume for 2015 is set at KZT3,219.9 bn and reduced by KZT939.6 bn. adjusted earnings forecast of the republican budget for 2015 is defined in the amount of 3219,9 billion tenge or decreased by 939.6 billion tenge .
The European Council and the European Commission expressed support for the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan in carrying out reforms, especially in the direction of developing a transparent, accountable state, as well as in further improving the electoral process.
Until the end of the war, he served in the 325th company of scouts of the 244th division.
including infrastructure, high energy intensity, low energy efficiency, alternative energy potential used and regional energy markets operating at that time.
According to the President, the diversification of the economy will be carried out by involving transnational companies in the manufacturing industry, which will allow Kazakhstan to take a big step in the world market.
here will be presented portraits of the Kassym Khan, famous merchants, medieval Scottish and Basque towns, the Khan of Horde monument of the 12th-15th centuries, paintings of Alashkhan, mother, etc., "the report said.
this year our cycling team will spend the tenth season. this year our cycling team will hold its tenth season .
The founder and chairman of the World Economic Forum noted that Kazakhstan, under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, makes an important contribution to the peace and prosperity of the region.
In the republic, the coverage of children with kindergartens aged 3 to 6 years amounted to 79%, and in the capital - 58%.	for today the coverage of children from 3 to 6 years makes 79 % , including astana - 58 % ,  he told .
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the Chinese chairman is the leader of the first foreign state to arrive in Kazakhstan after the presidential election in the country.
The planned time of the spacecraft inmarsat-5f2 Moscow time is February 2015, 2 years 7 hours 02 minutes.
The heads of state discussed the current issues of the Eurasian Economic Union, the prospects for deepening the partnership within the framework of the organization and expansion of international cooperation, as well as the process of Kyrgyzstan's accession to the union.
of these, 26,155 residential facilities worth 209.3 billion tenge; 13,756 non-residential facilities worth 82.6 billion tenge, including 3,396 commercial facilities worth 57.7 billion tenge; 14 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; securities in the amount of 2.5 billion tenge.
The purpose of the inspection is to verify the presence or absence of military operations subject to prior notification in the indicated zones (transferred, Munster and Munster-Süd training grounds).
the patriotic idea of ​ ​ the head of state, created in Kazakhstan. "
The Chairman of the meeting noted that health care was a priority in the programs of the President of Kazakhstan and is intended to fulfill social obligations, the press service of the Majilis reports.
According to him, the rally began in the park "Northern Rays" and ended on Independence Square, bypassing the streets of the city of Petropavlovsk.
During the meeting with the UN Secretary General, the main areas of cooperation, the possibility of its further activation, as well as the implementation of joint projects in various areas were discussed.
A lot of work will be done in this direction, "the Governor of the region said.
The head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions informed the interlocutor about the readiness for the V Congress, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year, and noted the special importance of the participation of the UN Secretary General as a guest of honor at the invitation of the head of state.
cost of application for legalization of property in Dubai 108,229 million tenge.
there is no assessment of the memory of the feat of each participant in the war. "
he is a doctor of law, professor.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that there is a lot of work to be done in the capital.
According to the Republic of Kazakhstan, important negotiations were held with the Dubai center, during which Kazakhstan concluded an agreement on their law, economy and copying methods.
Chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Majilis Tatyana Yakovleva, chairman of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Seitstan Aymbets, Ibrayas, elected as a deputy from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, took part in the discussion of the bill.
Salem al-Ameri noted the high level of international authority of Kazakhstan, which received the right to hold an international specialized exhibition in the capital, and expressed interest in the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the future.
The steel industry grew by 22% from 2010 to 2014, metal ore production increased by 35%, finished metal production increased by 57%, "representatives of the republican community noted.
thanks to the courage and dedication of our ancestors, we live in a prosperous country, "said B. Baibek.
All veterans with great pleasure met the head of the city and thanked the head of the city for his care.
The management of the samruk-kazyn reported to the board of directors of the company on the progress in the implementation of the agreement on cooperation concluded between the national welfare fund and the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In accordance with the law on amnesty for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, oralmans and persons with a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in connection with the legalization of property by them, from September 1, 2014, the city of aktobe carries out a procedure for the legalization of property objects whose rights are not registered in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by representatives of central state and local executive bodies.
Kazakhstan continues its efforts to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
On December 22-23, such a holiday was organized for high school students and children of military personnel of the Zhas Ulan school.
Over the years of independence, we have built more than 700 schools and the same number of hospitals.
I think that this election company will go down in history as it organizes and the number of visitors, "the politician said.
Competitions lasted two days in a row: individual race and relay.
According to the guest of honor, the Expo 2017 exhibition in the capital is also in the spotlight of the Swiss.
The purpose of the law "On ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the activities of border representatives" is aimed at the long-term preservation of friendship and stability and the strengthening of mutual trust on the state border.
It is worth noting that the volume of production in the West Kazakhstan region increased by 2 times and in 2014 amounted to 1 trillion 833.9 billion tenge.
in this regard, we ask you to take part in the elections and continue your activities for the benefit of Kazakhstan, "the authors write.
industrial zones will be created in the areas forward, chrome and mughalzhar.
In Petropavlovsk, employees of Tanoil LLP congratulated the head of state on his apparent victory in the elections, noting that the activity of voters and the number of votes given to Nursultan Nazarbayev are proof of his belonging to the title of leader of the nation.
the back and fetus turn gray, the chest is black, the association said.
Leader of the Nұr Otan Party, Head of State N.Nazarbayev instructed every veteran and home front worker to have a special relationship with society and the state.
The civil aviation committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan joined the opening of the air route.
at the same time, the Kazakh delegation held talks with the president of the Liechtenstein Landtag (parliament) Albert Frick.
are not subject to customs duties by the parties to the product sharing agreement (Sat). duty-free sales of goods will be provided to the participants of production sharing agreement ( psa ) .
A senior diplomat noted that Lebanon, under the leadership of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, is closely following the "impressive" achievements of our state in various areas.
in accordance with article 27, paragraph 3, of the constitutional law, pre-election campaigning is carried out through the media, by issuing and/or distributing printed, audiovisual and other propaganda materials.	in accordance with paragraph 3 of article 27 of the constitutional law the election campaign can be conducted through the media , through the issuance and ( or ) distribution of printed , audiovisual and other campaign materials .	1,02
This is a large tourist fair and a dialogue platform for the turbine business.	this is a huge tourism fair and dialogue platform for the travel industry .	1,02
i.merkel expressed interest in continuing work on improving the possibilities and efficiency of justice, developing information technologies and improving the legal environment for business, the Prosecutor General's Office said.	i. merkel expressed the intention to continue the work on improvement of the efficiency of justice , development of information technologies and improvement of regulatory environment for business , the prosecutor general 's office reported .	1,02
it freely connects Asia and Europe, passing through all our borders, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The Chinese side expressed confidence that the potential of bilateral cooperation and friendly relations in the future will be enriched by the pace of development of interreligious and interreligious dialogue between the Kazakh and Chinese peoples.
According to the results of the work, out of 4,589 citizens who applied, 2,791 people received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 1,164 people received applications for changing their details, 634 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
during a visit to Bishkek e. idrissov also held talks with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kyrgyzstan, Erlan Abdyldaev.
During the round table, the Deputy Minister of the Interior spoke.
summing up the meeting, the Secretary of State noted the need to link the new scholarship development plan for the next five years with mechanisms for training actually adapted personal personnel and improving the quality of scholarships for all sectors of the economy.
The volume of purchases of national companies from commodity producers of the region exceeded the level of 2013 by 1.7 times and amounted to 93 billion. Tenge, the number of contracts increased by 30%.
this document was executed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to develop a law "On Minimum Standards and Guarantees," announced in the framework of the message of the head of state dated December 14, 2012 "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 - a new political course of the held state."
it reflects how I accept modern Kazakhstan, I feel its dynamic development. the rhapsody is my perception of the modern kazakhstan , its rapid progress , " the author wrote .
a new business center will be built with offices of subsidiaries and subsidiaries.
mini-plant for the production of aluminum radiators of Araystroymarket LLP.
the accession of two new states - Armenia and Kyrgyzstan - will also give an additional impetus to the development of the EAEU, "the expert said.
thanks to the victory, we live in an independent Kazakhstan.
the institution brings up 90 children aged 2 to 6 years in line.
of which 8.5 million are employed, 452 thousand are workers.
in this area, the number of doctoral and master's research papers has increased.
German investors have already entered the Kazakh market, "said the marketer of the car store in Kazakhstan.
as a result, the laboratory is equipped with high-tech metalworking industrial and collection-training machines, robotics, 3D printers, a 3D modem, and a computer class.
Last year, about 600 servicemen of all types and branches of the military, 2 higher military educational institutions with a total of 217 units of military equipment and 73 units of aviation equipment took part in the parade.
this document is aimed at the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Optimization and Automation of Public Services in the Social and Labor Sphere."
according to the program, this movement has a high need.
During the visit, a meeting was organized with the Chairman of the Department of Religious Affairs under the Turkish Government, Mehmed Grmez, the leadership of the Haseki Higher Religious Center, the departments of religious institutions of Ankara, Istanbul, horse, non-Shehir cities.
social harmony and political stability are our highest wealth.
To date, there are about 800 workers on the island.
In addition, as part of this charity event, Kazneftegazexport LLP renovated the apartment of the veteran of the Great Patriotic War Enaliyev Ismail Iskhanula.
From the first historical moment of independence, thanks to the selfless work and skillful leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has gained great authority in the world, "the Chairman of the Senate emphasized.
youth unemployment is on the rise (15-24 years).
a.zhaksybekov reported to the Head of State on the socio-economic development of the city, the implementation of the main state programs, as well as on the preparation of the capital for the upcoming socio-political and cultural and mass events.
As part of this project, all associations organize various events aimed at the social sphere, "he said.
A group of party volunteers was also involved, veteran organizations, teachers of the history of universities and secondary schools took part.
former Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania, Honorary Chairman of the Latvian People's Party K. Prunskene says that the victory of the President of Kazakhstan in the elections is an undisputed victory for the entire people.
by 6.3%.
I got into 431 shore batteries.
our policy of supporting the president is based on full confidence in the leader of the nation, his strategic orientation aimed at creating a strong and prosperous Kazakhstan. our support to the president 's policy based on a deep trust in leader of the nation , his strategic course to build a strong and prosperous kazakhstan .
Taking into account the social and political significance of the event, I ask you to be very careful in considering citizens' appeals and applications during the election period, ensuring that legitimate and justified decisions are made in accordance with the norms of material and procedural law, "said K.Mam.
this is also a joyful matter, "said the Prime Minister of Lithuania.
last year bilateral treaties on extradition, on the transfer of convicted persons were concluded.
According to the report of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of January 19, 2015, 51 savings accounts opened in connection with the legalization of money in second-tier banks received 9.6 billion tenge for a total amount, including 3.1 billion tenge from savings accounts, a budget fee of 339.6 million tenge was paid for the legalization of money.
Out of 2 thousand global companies, only 1 thousand are industrial companies producing a specific product, about 700 companies work in priority sectors of the economy. among two thousand global companies about 1 thousands of companies are manufacturing companies that produce something concrete , about 700 companies are operating in the priority sectors of spiid .
this visit helped further strengthen cooperation across the entire spectrum of interstate relations between the two countries and made it possible to "correct the clock" before the forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, which is scheduled for September this year in Ufa.
During the round table "Opportunities of German business within the EAEU" with the participation of representatives of leading economic associations of Germany and large German companies, B. Sagintayev informed the German business community about new priority areas and opportunities for German companies and business within the framework of the new "bright path" economic policy.
This year, work on the construction of roads will be launched in the region.
On February 3-6, 2015, in all educational institutions of the region, libraries, cultural and sports institutions, within the framework of the national plan of activities for the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a presentation lecture was organized on the topic "20-year history of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
a new tariff policy is also being implemented.
the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises amounted to 77.4 thousand units.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of further improving the efficiency of the state apparatus to ensure sustainable growth and stability of the country.
this is one of the modern greenhouses of southern Kazakhstan.
The organizers of the congress are Kazakhstani scientists who have great potential in the implementation of scientific projects on energy topics, experience in holding large scientific forums, are members of authoritative international scientific associations of scientists and engineers, have scientific ties with steam, unesco, unido, caets, hia, rjga, feiic commissions, international scientific and engineering associations ().
Recently, therefore, special attention has been paid to the development and transformation of higher educational institutions in the Republic.
for the region as a whole and for individual Kazakhstan, the creation of this organization is of great importance.
The Minister noted the "nұrly zhol" and the second five-year plan of industrialization, as well as the relevance of fulfilling the tasks set by the head of state.
Also, the UN manager in East Kazakhstan region shared his experience.
the impact of oil problems on other industries will largely concern the financial sector, "he added.
The head of the trade union federation of Kazakhstan submitted documents to the CEC as a self-nominated candidate.
According to him, the President noted the need to install special sections in retail chains where goods from Kazakhstan will be delivered.
thanks to the far-sighted policy of our leader, all the necessary conditions have been created in our country for the development of the cultural sphere. all conditions are created in our country for the development of cultural sphere thanks to the support of the head of stat .
the State should perform high-quality service.
The session notes that only a "nation of a united future," based on the further strengthening of Kazakh identity and the principles of citizenship, creative values ​ ​ based on the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," the development of trilingualism of languages, the average basis of the nation, will become the most reliable foundation of a stable and successful state.
high status of our president at the international level - creates good conditions for the dynamic development of all sectors of the state. the high international authority of our country and the leader of the nation , the most favorable conditions for the development of all spheres of life - it is a foundation of future success of kazakhstan .
We receive another nomination from the project itself, that is, a special gift from the project, el.kz said D. Sauletov.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of continuing work on the implementation of the tasks set for the country.
at the same time, it has a large base in the state, because there are votes of all national associations.
Your participation in the congress and your peacekeeping activities in the future will contribute to the development of interreligious dialogue, strengthening tolerance and peacefulness, harmony and stability, "the senator said.
the current situation in Kazakhstan is full of contradictions and complex. the current situation in kazakhstan is quite controversial and difficult .
In 2014, 1.5 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the reconstruction of 7 sewerage networks.
at the same time, the number of inspections of private entrepreneurs decreased by 142 thousand or 82% (from 173 082 to 30807), including inspections against small and medium-sized enterprises by 136 thousand or 86% (from 158915 to 22050).
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
Speaking at the meeting, B. Sagintayev recalled that the head of state in his message to the people announced a new economic policy "nұr the way to the future - the way to the future" so that the global crisis does not have a negative impact on the Kazakh economy.
map of heroes - a monument to the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War.
On August 6, 2014, President Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to put in order open markets where conditions for visiting and working are not created. head of state nursultan nazarbayev on 6 august 2014 instructed us to put in order the open-air markets , where there are no conditions for business and consumers .
regardless of gender, religion, nationality, we all have a common Kazakh dream.
During the seminar, the presentation of the system "Application of criterion assessment to evaluate students' achievements in the learning process" was held, master classes of teachers on improving literacy, using the system of criterion assessment in lessons in mathematics, music, English, Russian were organized.
We conclude memoranda with enterprises, trade unions and local executive bodies. we have agreed on signing memoranda between enterprises , trade unions and local executive bodies .
I constantly say that Kazakhstan is moving forward due to unity.
son - a sage - intends to continue military affairs, which has now become the pride of the family.
The Government of Kazakhstan is interested in the further implementation of joint projects.
Adaulbaev noted the great attention of the prosecutor's office of our country to the process of integration into international relations and the international legal community and drew special attention to strengthening cooperation with the Bulgarian state in friendly relations, which is one of the promising countries of Europe.
Here's the 10th high-speed route. it is the 10th high-speed train .
we support stability and peace. " Ertaev.
In addition, the head of Kazakhstan and Vietnam considered the main areas of cooperation between the two countries in the trade, economic and investment spheres.
education within the framework of the project "and the Ministry of Education and Science at a meeting with representatives of a large family in Astana.
I have no doubt that the Universiade 2017 will be held at a high level. i don 't doubt that the level of the universiade-2017 will be the highest level of the holding of the universiade .
The main goal of the Olympiad is to develop creative abilities, deepen theoretical knowledge and practical skills, promote self-realization, create conditions for identifying gifted children, select and prepare students to participate in the international Olympiad, "the statement said.
thus, rural dancers took first place.
Since 2010, as part of the support of agricultural producers in the period of spring-field and autumn-harvest work, the Agriculture Fund has credited 1,331 peasants in the amount of 5,043 million tenge.
In February 1943, at the age of 18, he was called up to the front. muhambetkali baymuratov was drafted to the front when he was 18-year-old .
The action was attended by cultural figures of the Republic of Kazakhstan, honorary citizen of Almaty region alimgazy of Raimbek, veterans of the city, children with disabilities, active members of the "young homeland," youth and representatives of gardens.
the parties noted the strong trade and economic potential of the two countries. the two sides underlined the economic and trade potential between the two countries .
today we visited many polling stations in the capital.
The project for the construction of the ferry complex in the port of Kuryk provides for hydraulic construction facilities, piers, administrative auxiliary structures. the project in the kuryk port provides a device of hydraulic structures , piers , and administrative support buildings .
this holiday is very important for the state, it is very important that representatives of different nationalities live in the country.
According to the head of the department, Norwegian scientists began research work in the cities of Botai and Ulytau, where ancient burials were discovered.
rubber and plastic products, other non-metallic mineral products, metallurgical and chemical products.
Aktobinsky Rail Plant LLP
the purpose of this project is to diversify production and create new innovative steel industries.
According to the Mayor's Office, this agreement is one of the measures aimed at improving the business environment and supporting small and medium-sized businesses of the capital.
With such measures, we identify talented creative teams, release new stars, "said the head of the regional department of culture, archives and documentation.
we are again using the crisis to develop modern infrastructure and overcome multibillion-dollar assets. we once again make the most of world crisis in order to create modern infrastructure and input multi-billion dollar assets .
62% of young people choose their nationality, 31% do not share nationality.
First of all, we will continue our current direction, supported by the people. firstly , we will continue implementing the program , which was supported by the people .
The congratulation notes that thanks to the visionary leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev over the past twenty years, Kazakhstan has achieved great success in socio-economic development.
workers, farmers, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, science and culture, creative intelligentsia, students in their letters in every possible way support the initiative, which should play an important role in the further development of the state, the report said.
From January 24 to 25, the stage of the World Cup in sports sambo among men and women starts - sporting events of the 2015 world sambo calendar.
transtelecom ak is one of the largest Kazakh telecom operators.
this part of the employees was presented sweet gifts to children with delicious home cakes, sports equipment and a woman soldier, congratulated the children.
1 . extract from minutes XVI of a congress of public association "Party" Nr Otan "in which the decision on Nursultan's promotion of Nazarbayev's abishevich by the candidate for president of the republic from public association" Nur Otan Party, with application of a copy of the document on registration of this public association in the Ministry of Justice of the republic is made;
this initiative has found its support and is now gradually opening in all educational institutions of the region, "the report said.
to Russia - 119 thousand tons, to China - 55 thousand tons of grain.
motor vehicles, swimming and rescue equipment.
some state political leaders wanted to get us on their side.
this means the continuity of the military traditions of today's generation of winners and defenders of the Fatherland in the Great Patriotic War.
In addition to Kazakhstanis, the company's alstom transport specialists work in production, "said Jesus.
we must ensure Kazakhstan's entry into the top three cultural countries in the world, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, classes on individual work, their education and military training were held with cadets.
For many citizens, this is an opportunity to earn money using summer holidays, "the report said.
such threats include the aggravation of the political situation in Afghanistan in connection with the withdrawal of the forces of the international coalition, the activation of a terrorist organization calling itself an "Islamic state," as well as the situation in Ukraine, "the report said.
During this modernization, the construction of the second stage will begin, this is a high-voltage line of 220k tulkubas-stormy "with a length of 62 kilometers.
This year, the construction of internal infrastructure will begin.
relations of our countries have always been at a good level, and I hope that strong friendship and cooperation will continue to flourish under your leadership, "the telegram says.
Housing commissioning for the 1st quarter increased by 20% and amounted to 2 million 702 square meters.
Currently, they are covered by recreational activities, engage in sports, art, work, communicate with pedagogical citizens.
The 5th Kazakhstan international conference and exhibition dedicated to labor protection and industrial safety is held in the capital.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Ministers informed about the work of mobile groups, the main task of which is to explain to residents of remote settlements the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" and assist in the preparation of social benefits.
to achieve this goal, the concept of a common electricity market will be adopted in May. for these purposes , we discuss the concept of creating a common energy market that will be adopted in may .
Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan "fully supports the decision of the head of state to nominate Nazarbayev for the post of President of Kazakhstan.
the National Guard is represented in all cities and areas of republican importance.
Today, wheat of Kazakhstan is a popular brand, and when calculating world food supplies, our country's resources are also acquired.
army and front-line aircraft, heavy armored vehicles and artillery, various guns and ammunition will be used in the inspection and regrouping of military contingents of the shelter.
In 2017-2018 to promote to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council informed the Czech side about the country's active activities in the field of multilateral diplomacy, along with Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening regional and international stability and security, including in the non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons.
in the representation of the Kazakh village, the national characteristics of our people were demonstrated in the form of white yurt, Kazakh dance, national traditions.
to ensure industrialization-based economic growth, we are undertaking structural reforms. in order to achieve economic growth based on industrialization , we will conduct fundamental structural reforms in the field of education and health standards .
among them are industry, agriculture, medicine, the defense industry, the it industry and others.
Class rank of State Counselor of Justice, Grade 3:
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the main purpose of holding meetings with 15 Aktobe companies is wider familiarization with the activities, products and capacity of Aktobe Rail Beam Plant LLP.
in production there is a network of LEDs with a capacity of 1 million units per month. there is a led line with capacity of 1 million units per month , smd assembly line ( capacity 40 000 components per hour ) .
The Chairman of the Congress of Deputies of Spain noted that the new mandate of the President of Kazakhstan will further strengthen relations between the two countries.
for these purposes, I instruct until 2017 to form the material and technical base of these universities, sending 10 billion tenge. "
this is a heraldic symbol BC. e. Dates back to the 4th century.
the bill provides for the division of all state organizations into two groups: state institutions created to implement state functions, and state enterprises created to implement socially significant public functions, "he added.
moreover, this is not a temporary job, "he concluded.
The main goal of the Assembly Year is to achieve the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the Concept of Development of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan until 2020 and the opening of the way to the triumph of unpopularity in society.
In general, there is no reduction in wages and workers, "said E. Zhusanbaev.
The historical phenomenon of Kazakhstan is elections.
Nursultan Nazarbayev justifies the growing trust of the people.
the meeting was attended by the heads of central and local executive bodies, the garden.
a synchronous action dedicated to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was held in the region.	also they saw a lecture-presentation  kazakhstan model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony , " the statement reads .
According to him, the export of caviar to Russia in 2014 compared to 2013 increased from 290 tons to 2,342 tons.
The forum will be attended by representatives of financial institutions, brokerage, legal and transportation companies, exchange sites, information and consulting agencies, large processing enterprises, domestic and foreign advanced trading companies, as well as domestic and Kazakh experts in the grain industry.
these are rare metals, geological exploration, automotive and automotive industry, food industry technology, production of building materials, production of railway equipment, oil and gas chemistry, electrical installations and other industries.
you gave me a ticket to life. you personally gave me a start in life .
The action is held in all regions of our country.
it will start working next year.
oil reserve is 45.5 tons, residential materials - 160 tons.
The elections showed a high level of consolidation and cooperation of Kazakhstani society. these elections have demonstrated a high level of consolidation of kazakh society and unity .
in the areas that I controlled, I did not see any violations, everything was carried out very competently, so the results were very good, "said K. Strent.
this is a unique institution for Kazakhstan, using elements of nuclear medicine.
instability in the state arises due to the low social situation and living standards of the population with a weak economy, insufficient jobs, wages and incomes. low social status and low living standards of the people , decadent economy , deficient of jobs , wages and incomes generate destabilization in the state , displeasure .
representatives of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest spoke about the measures of state support for the escort at a meeting with entrepreneurs in Karaganda.
they defended Leningrad and died.
Thus, within three days, the work of the legal entity will be terminated, "said the deputy minister.
in the development of the country's economy there is every opportunity to show growth and real results.
in particular, the Alexander cormorant on the topic "clean technologies in traditional energy," the Andrean Babylon on the topic "green technologies in the mining industry," the young diamond zainoldin on the topic "ecotourism" were awarded special diplomas.
this charity event takes place in the area for the first time, but, according to the organizers, such events will be held traditionally.
In the period from 2012 to 2014, the fund issued "lynx" three loans totaling 1.5 billion tenge.
the first competition among groups of educational projects "my contribution to expo 2017.
According to preliminary calculations, it is envisaged to legalize property for a total amount of up to 10-12 billion dollars.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan is trying to fully respond to world challenges in order to maintain peace and harmony in the region.
The purpose of this seminar is the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. a. Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012 "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state" and improving the professional knowledge and skills of students on technologies for implementing state ethnopolitics within the framework of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The Kazenergy Association, which unites about 80 largest oil and gas energy entities in Kazakhstan, as well as national companies such as kazneftegaz, kegos, kaztransoil, samruk-energy, supports the initiative to hold early presidential elections in 2015.
It is planned to implement 11 investment projects totaling 316 billion tenge with the creation of 3266 jobs in accordance with these priorities.
During the conference, a sectional meeting "Current problems of modern history: methodology and modern understanding" was held.
state regulation in the field of accelerated development has been stopped, - said a.mamytbekov.
a feed plant will also be built, "said m.eleusizov.
The participants of the event were presented with the exhibition-fair "Heritage of the People."
The Kazakh Foreign Minister informed diplomats about the work done by the Kazakh side.
the company provides assistance to startup companies at the initial stage of financial and consulting activities. the company provides financial and consulting services to start-up companies on initial stages ( providing premises , accounting , pr-marketing , attraction of investments , etc . ) .
and the offer to "be friends with houses" we accept with great pleasure, "said the director for the elderly and disabled of the Yarkainsky district, Svetlana Altyntseva
cooperation between the two countries in the field of transboundary water resources.
The meeting was organized by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the committee for control in the field of education and science of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of representatives of the international commission on ethics of science and technology (comest) at UNESCO.
This is the largest world-class sports event organized by the world federation togyzkumalak, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the akimat of Almaty.
During the action, special attention is paid to veterans of the Great Patriotic War, low-income families, people with disabilities, orphans, children with serious illnesses, as well as people experiencing difficulties in life.
According to the war veteran, living in a peaceful country is happiness.
The staff of South Kazakhstan State University named after M. Auezov thanked the head of state for the decision to hold presidential elections.
In January-November 2014, natural population growth amounted to 1881 87 people, migration growth - 17088 people.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that thousands of young Kazakhstanis take part in the forum with a common desire.
According to the Foreign Ministry, this session is devoted to the theme "Balance of three aspects of sustainable development: from integration to implementation" and provides for the integration and implementation of three aspects, such as continuous economic development, environmental and social protection and equality.
N.Nazarbayev also noted the social security of the state.
Along with the involvement of international participants, the Commissioner is working to promote EXPO-2017 at international venues and is negotiating with tourism ministers of foreign countries, heads of tourism associations.
now professionals in law enforcement and judicial bodies should work, "said R. Shaliev.
The head of the NPP noted that in Kazakhstan there are a number of state programs aimed at supporting business, and development institutions are ready to finance new projects.
the new mandate of confidence of the people you received indicates recognition of your contribution to the successful development of modern statehood of Kazakhstan, the telegram says.
"The Republic of Kazakhstan takes an active part in the activities of the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons and participates in the annual sessions and events of the conference of member states of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons," he said.
Thanks to this program, we will rise to a qualitatively new level, introduce innovative technologies, and produce our products. due to this program we have reached quality level introduce innovative technologies and produce their own products .
In total, 32,500 (76.4 per cent) students were enrolled in the summer period in the organization of health, leisure and employment of children, and 30,159 (74.8 per cent) students in 2013.
in total, last year, 310 farms that contributed to the development of breeding received subsidies in the amount of 1524 million tenge.
in Shymkent, the deputy head of government got acquainted with the work of industrial enterprises and social facilities, met with labor collectives, held a number of meetings devoted to the social development of the region, the government press service said primeminister.kz.
according to him, this will increase people's respect for history.
and economic threats caused by religious extremist, terrorist, global and regional trends.
2015 was declared the year of Nazarbayev by the Head of State. president nursultan nazarbayev declared the year of the apk .
compared to 2013 (19:00 hours on December 27, 2013), this figure increased by 487 mW or 3.7%.
Domestic and Russian technologies are currently being imported and installed.
Therefore, our youth show respect, respect for veterans through such work, "said the Jasotan damir of kaipov.
He noted that this year an onboard workshop was launched at the capital airport, and the internal image of the airport was changed to a commercialized style.
and in the regional TSON will begin to create a new microdistrict "oilman."
he noted that in the future this will benefit both the state and citizens.
all of them will receive appropriate payments in April, said Aigul Esekenova.
Last year, we jointly developed an employment roadmap "and under the program, the regions committed themselves to employing people with disabilities.
production of polyethylene cells, aromatic hydrocarbons, grain cells. the production of polyethylene film , aromatic hydrocarbons , food film will be started .
at a critical time of the crisis, we will continue the program, "the head of state said.
During training, participants show strength, endurance, overcoming such difficulties as fatigue.
Due to the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services, 7 projects were implemented as part of the direction of employment.
the company produces products such as special equipment, boats and ships equipped for the oil and gas industry.
that is, we could conduct business, attract foreign investment, transnational companies, finance them without reducing the indicators of the tasks announced in the second five-year plan, "he said.
According to him, such activity in the history of sovereign Kazakhstan takes place for the first time.
humanitarian ties play a big role in this issue, "said the President of the Assembly of Peoples of the Orenburg Region, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor Venaliy Amelin.
In addition, according to him, the program has become large-scale.
In addition, within the framework of Kazakhstan's economic policy, "Nұrly zhol" identified the main points of placement of external terminal infrastructure in order to create distribution centers and consolidate transit cargo flows, as well as promote Kazakh exports abroad.
The event was attended by employees of the local industrial and technical college, orphanage of the central district hospital, etc.
new technologies such as nanotechnology, biotechnology and space technology play a crucial role in modern society. in modern society , the new technologies play a crucial role : nanotechnology , biotechnology , space technology .
in the capital, we must close all polling stations, and then a complete objective picture will appear, "said the representative of the republican public election observation commission Vladimir Telnov.
With regard to attracting large global companies to manage the infrastructure of transport routes, this step is due to the fact that Kazakhstan offers a very useful and optimal direction for accelerated and efficient trade between Asia and Europe. as for the involvement of the world 's largest companies , kazakhstan is now quite profitable and optimal route for trade between asia and europe .
if now half of the products come in the form of raw materials, dairy products, then for our commodity producers it gives great opportunities to expand its own production, "he said.
Work in this direction has already begun, "said the deputy minister.
In general, every year there is a growing interest in public transport.
According to him, 58.3 thousand people have been employed as part of comprehensive measures.
this train meets world standards.
Citizens of the country will have access to these houses in order of priority, "said the deputy minister.
As for secondary education, we must submit proposals within a month in accordance with the instructions of the president. as for the structure of secondary education , we are should make new proposals within a months in accordance with the presidential instruction .
According to the Vice President of the country, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan ensures the economic growth of the country, peace and harmony.
As you know, German representative offices are actively opening firms and companies in Kazakhstan.
The trust was attended by officials of structural divisions, national coordinators of business dialogue: the Union of Manufacturers and Entrepreneurs of Russia, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, they plan to build an additional livestock farm.
we see a decrease in competition between major powers for the zone of influence, market, development and transportation of energy resources.
In Brussels, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, Secretary of State for Housing and Migration of Belgium theo Franken, Ambassador of Luxembourg to Belgium, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Belgium Jan Jurian Shuver signed an agreement on the abolition of visa requirements for diplomatic passports and readmissions, the statement said.
earlier, this information was partially transferred to the archives of Karaganda, Pavlodar regions and the city of Astana.
each state independently chooses one of the three principles, "the minister said.
s.tull informed the Chairman of the Senate about the planned events for the 70th anniversary of the UN, familiarized with the activities of the Pauds in Kazakhstan and the framework program of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the couple for development in the period 2016-2020.
Thus, 230 thousand 442 entrepreneurs were covered by support measures under the BZhK-2020 program, 237 thousand jobs were created and supported.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the uranium industry is one of the key industries in the country and occupies a significant place in the world market.
Therefore, from next year they will participate in the tender for a state order in the general order, "said the Vice Minister.
a kyzylorda panel will also be installed in the area of ​ ​ Korkut-ata airport.
Last year, Kazakhstan concluded negotiations with the European Union on expanded partnership and accession to the WTO. talks on a new agreement concerning the expanded partnership and kazakhstan 's accession to the wto have completed last year .
at the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-October 2013 increased by 12.3% and amounted to 17,325 people.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the country has all the necessary opportunities to counter crisis phenomena.
In turn, Salem al-Ameri said that the Emirates showed great interest in participating in the Expo 2017.
In addition, the program will create 49 thousand new jobs, of which 20 thousand will be employed this year and another 650 during the commissioning of these houses.
the work of the Kazakh-German intergovernmental working group on trade and economic cooperation and the Kazakh-German business group on strategic cooperation is actively underway.
to eliminate emergency and three-shift schools in the secondary education system, new comprehensive schools will be opened, "he said.
Thus, we understand the big role that social networks play in the development of society, "said one of the organizers of the event, chairman of the board of the National Infoquent Holding Zerde.
Since the beginning of the DKZ-2020 program to promote employment, 461 thousand people have been covered.
last year's profit was 2.33 kpc.
According to the results of 89 fairs held, 1892 people were employed for vacancies, 452 people were sent for public works, 453 people were employed for social jobs, 295 people were sent for youth practice, and 44 people were sent for vocational training.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that at the expanded meeting of the political council of the party a large-scale program of "beam path" was adopted, aimed at countering crisis phenomena in the global economy.
the proportion of HIV infection among citizens is 0.168%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the continuation of good-neighbourly relations with China is a priority of Kazakhstan's foreign policy.
During the meeting, the parties expressed confidence that in the future the work between the railway administrations will be fruitful.
support will be provided to domestic producers. the support will affect the domestic producers .
in general, in the capital there is an improvement in demographic indicators.
During the period from March 16 to 31 of this year, 371 remote rural districts in all regions of the country were unscheduled with mobile groups, including an additional 6 rural districts.
everything is promoted.
the main task is the development of the raw material base and the export of processed products.
interaction between the state and society.
The Accounts Committee will work on the models of world audit companies of the first class and will leave the current operational control.
he performed various songs in harmony, especially the "katyusha" was close to him.
During the talks at the Latvian Sejm, a wide range of issues of bilateral relations was discussed, views were exchanged on important priorities of inter-parliamentary cooperation.
therefore, I met with the Arabs to write correctly.
The large-scale event is attended by heads of more than 200 national companies, specialists of hr-departments of private corporations, international experts, the fund said.
independence is the great history of modern Kazakhstan, "he said.
The head of the region added to new sectors existing in the region enterprises for the processing of resources, as well as the production of equipment for resource sectors: mining, oil and gas, electric power, chemistry and oil, sectors for the export of professional services (engineering, activities in the field of ecology) and industrial electrical engineering and others.
the same citizen who identifies shortcomings objectively evaluates the provision of public services. it is a citizen who can give the objective estimate of the quality of the state services ' provision , identify the deficiencies .
in the whole country, the preventive treatment of pregnant women infected with HIV reached 91.3%, the coverage of children - 97.3%.
Cleaning the city covered 1 microdistrict and acbot park, friends beach and industrial zone, zones of 5 microdistricts.
The electric locomotive plant is the only enterprise in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the production of freight and passenger electric locomotives using the latest innovative achievements in the assembly of railway vehicles of Alstom Transport (France).
As of January 1, 2015, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 353,833 units and increased by 4.4% compared to the same period last year, including 336,422 units with less than 50 employees. as of january 1 , 2015 the number of registered legal entities amounted to 353,833 units and increased by 4.4 % compared to the corresponding period of the previous year , including 336,422 units employing fewer than 50 people .
all participants overcome 50 meters.
We can proudly say that in many families Kazakhstan is a participant in the Great Patriotic War, "said the deputy chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, Major General Mukan Dusekeev.
In the case of refining at the oil plant of the Kyzylorda and West Kazakhstan regions, this will contribute to a multiple increase in the cost of products and provide Kazakhstan with local fuel and lubricating equipment, "the report said.
I sincerely hope that relations between the two countries will be strengthened in terms of mutual benefit in the coming years, and we will work together to ensure peace, progress and stability, as well as improve the well-being of our peoples, "the telegram says.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Brunei assured that the appeals of the Kazakh side will be carefully studied, and expressed interest in developing cooperation with our country, including in a multilateral format.
special electric company is one of the best enterprises in the field of reconstruction and construction of urban, production and rural power supply systems of the capital and regions of Kazakhstan.
the promotion will continue all year round.
we must not allow it.
we discussed bilateral trade and economic relations.
tourism should become the face of Kazakhstan.
The Sultan of the Brunei Darussalam state hassanal bolkiah congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of Kazakh present and wished success in his work.
it is necessary to work quietly in this direction, "said A. Batalov.
the updated portal has a modern design and new services and provides users with access to information about all services, informing them about the company's activities.
The adoption of a new path is an important event of great importance for the future development of the country and the well-being of the people.
In addition, the government delegation of Kazakhstan during its visit to Berlin held bilateral meetings with the Government State Secretary of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture of Germany Robert Klos, the Minister of Agriculture of Mongolia Radio Burmaa and other officials.
voters who cast their vote for Nursultan Nazarbayev chose the path of prosperity, "said the chairman of the regional center of Uzbek culture aida alimberdiev.
The regional health budget amounted to 70.2 billion tenge.
in his new message, the head of state emphasized the need to continue the course begun, calling the development of the food industry.
At the end of the meeting, President of Slovenia B. Pahor expressed sincere wishes to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and invited the head of state to visit Slovenia on an official visit at a time convenient for him.
This event will discuss issues of protecting the rights of investors, resolving disputes with their participation, improving investment legislation.
we are happy that we live in such peaceful times, work thanks to the Kazakh policy of peace and harmony, "said Alexander Sukhovetsky, chairman of the Association of Poles of the Akmola Region.
this is a new level of trust between business and customs authorities, which will be carried out by analyzing the activities of entities, "said D. Mamashev.
The interlocutors discussed in detail the issues of interaction between the highest houses of parliaments of the two countries and noted the important role of the commission on cooperation between the Senate and the Federation Council in strengthening allied relations.
According to him, in this regard, personnel services will protect the rights of civil servants.
In addition, Kazatomprom will transfer all social facilities on the balance sheet of the white company to the communal property of the Kyzylorda region with financing for 2015-2016 in the amount of 1.6 billion tenge.
the number of employees at this time reached 6.1 million people, "the report said.
thus, we plan to sell a number of deposits in the national currency again.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev in August at an expanded meeting in Akorda announced that the government will be transformed.
the population began to trust domestic medicine, and citizens of neighboring countries came to us for treatment, "the head of state said.
According to him, to increase the number of scientific works, the ministry plans to submit new grant programs.
the proposal would depend on the international system and compliance with international requirements.
In this regard, the parties agreed to develop a draft memorandum on cooperation in the field of education and science in order to closely cooperate between the two countries in the field of education and science.
Employees of Petrochemicals Ltd LLP from Pavlodar city noted that their enterprises are one of the concrete examples of the development of the entrepreneurial cluster initiated by the President of Kazakhstan.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050, The concept of development of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan until 2020 is based on the principles of the policy of the Head of State - peace and harmony, "one country, one people."
the experience of our experts so far is ready for other international negotiations. the experience , gained by our experts , is already in demand for the preparation of other international negotiations .
According to the ministry, during the meeting, representatives of the religious affairs structures of Kazakhstan and Turkey discussed issues of cooperation in the field of spiritual education, exchange of experience between the state bodies of the two countries.
The President's Gold, Quality Award is awarded for the high quality of manufactured products and services of enterprises and for the successful application of highly effective approaches to safety and quality management.
participating companies not only own special customs and tax advantages, but also receive support for the development of new technologies through participation in the program of technological business incubations and innovative grants, the operator of which is the "National Agency for Technological Development."
At the same time, it was noted that 2015 will be the year of celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of our country, as well as such international events as the VIII Astana Economic Forum, the fifth congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
The competition was attended by specialists from the regional departments of economics and finance, internal policy, the coordination of employment and social programs, the youth resource center and the central library.
The head of the delegation, the Prime Minister of Lithuania stressed that the Algirdas Butkevičius Almaty is a real manifestation of stable economic ties between Kazakhstan and Lithuania.
"Administration of imported goods within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union."
The radiological method of diagnosis and treatment being introduced will help many citizens of our country, "the head of state said.
As a result, the existing test laboratories in the light and chemical industries, metallurgy, the field of fire safety, civil defense and veterinary science will be expanded and supplemented with the necessary equipment, the deputy minister said.
The solemn launch of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in Astana, scheduled for February 6 at 11 o'clock in the Palace of Peace and Harmony.
the observed events in the Middle East and in other regions of the world indicate the need to intensify and harmonize the efforts of States in solving pressing problems of our time, international organizations in the steam system, including UNESCO.
A sectoral anti-corruption programme for 2011-2015 is being implemented.	sectoral anti-corruption program for 2011-2015 function under the ministry .	1,04
we believe that the people's reforms of the president will ensure economic stability in society, inter-ethnic and interfaith peace and harmony, "said Gik Terteryan.
At the same time, as Musabayev noted, in the current year, an anchor project on the development of languages ​ ​ and the spiritual development of Kazakh youth will be presented within several months.
The Su-30cm aircraft will significantly increase the protection of the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the Government has taken a number of serious steps to support investors. the government has made a number of steps towards investors .
The event was organized as part of the action "20 good deeds" and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The news department will talk about international scientific and practical conferences, patriotic actions, spectacular games and Olympiads, festivals and exhibitions, which will be held as part of the celebration of the anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Kazakhstan's model is formed at a high level of political power, "he said.
good autumn moisture. autumn 's rainfalls were good .
100 concrete steps together with themselves will bring a great impetus to the development of our country, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
The Chairman of the Senate, who wished good luck in the case of Dmitry Pankin, noted that the bank considers it right to more actively participate the head of state in the new "bright path" economic program, since we are talking about the construction of transport infrastructure and logistics in Kazakhstan in order to fully use the transit and transport potential in the Eurasian space.
I think that in no country did the exit-poll results show 97.5%. no other state showed such results of the exit poll - 97.5 % .
The head of the department wished all veterans good health, well-being, handed them gifts.
A new breakthrough in relation to transport corridors is clearly reflected in the president's new economic program "Nұrly zhol," said the director of the institute.
In addition, according to the "Nұrly zhol" program, the role of the capital as a transport center, a large railway and road junction will increase, "said the deputy akim of Astana, Nural Aliyev.
one of them is the head of agriculture "stigal" ibrahim tepasaev.
we are gradually continuing cooperation with partner countries, we are an active member, one of the initiators of trust in Asia.
A. Aryngazieva sincerely congratulated the veterans on the upcoming holiday of the great victory, presented the commemorative medal "70 Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945" and presented gifts, wishing good health, cheer, high mood.
May peace, tranquillity always reign in our country, our state flourishes, "said B. Nerbayev.
In conclusion, he wished all Kazakhstanis good luck and new successes.
All participants of the competition were awarded various diplomas, special badges, valuable gifts, letters of thanks and certificates of honor, certificates.
All participants of the competition were awarded various diplomas, special badges, valuable gifts, letters of thanks and certificates of honor, certificates.
he also stressed that the academy works closely and effectively with the German Academy dbb, the European George Marshall Security Center in Germany, the University of Potsdam, Speyer University and other institutions.
and the head of the peasant farm "musa" - to recycle personnel Saidu fuel pellets.
The National Bank intends to avoid a sharp change in the exchange rate this year, "said K. Yelimbetov.
The programme is aimed at assessing the assets available in private States for international exercises, exercises and operations, as well as peace support operations.
I wish you thousands of soldiers of the Great Patriotic War, "said Alexander Zagrebin, head of the passenger transportation department.
This year in the capital we signed an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.
G. Karagusova noted that by the total amount of 690 billion tenge, expenses will be reduced, that is, projects that were supposed to begin in 2015, but were not started, shifted to 2016.
The new facility, located in the village of Almalyk, Makhambet district, was built as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
the heart of the library is the accumulated fund.
if young people feel the care of the state, are confident about their future, then such a state is thinking about its future. the state , where the youth feels care , prospect , is the state which thinks about its future .
In this regard, the importance and successful experience of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan in promoting the principles of tolerance, interreligious and interethnic harmony was noted.
I can confidently say that all the tasks set for the ministry have been implemented at all levels of education, "concluded A. Sarinzhipov.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that today's main congratulations and addresses are devoted to war veterans.
We treat about 20 species of fish. we recycle about 20 species of fish .
then it was not clear what would happen to the nationality, language, religion of these nationalities.
According to 261 applications received over the past terms, 1 real estate object worth 842 billion 328 million 487 thousand tenge was legalized.
this is subsidizing interest rates and guaranteeing loans, infrastructure support and allocating grants totaling more than five billion tenge, "he said.
many students shared their thoughts on the support of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we connect our current well-being and future only with you, "the authors write.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Sheikh Hamdan highly appreciated the level of development of Kazakh-European relations and emphasized the need to further deepen trade and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Dubai.
We had a very good pavilion. we have created a very nice pavilion .
The procession was supported by the Precious Heritage Foundation and the akimat of the region.
The scientific work of cadets is a special approach linking active socio-political processes taking place in Kazakhstan, the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and in the world space.
As noted, Minister R. Lyaich expressed a desire to take part in the 8th Astana Economic Forum in May 2015.
Chairman of the Board of Development Bank of Kazakhstan Bolat Zhamishev, First Deputy Chairman of the Board of DBK Askar Dostyarov and Managing Director of DBK Abay Sarkulov will take part in the press conference.
During the meeting, aspects of cooperation in the field of renewable energy sources and the creation of a joint venture to create elements for solar panels were discussed. during the meeting they discussed the aspects of cooperation in the field of renewable energy and the creation of a joint venture for the production of components for solar panels .
According to the organizers, any young person can take part in the Bala turkvizyon-2015 competition in Kazakhstan, regardless of the region in which the country is located.
Kazakhstan is one of the fastest growing countries in the world. kazakhstan is one of the fastest growing states .
Each year, they gather on the eve of the New Year to identify a professor who has received the universal respect of colleagues.
According to R. Nizamutdinov, for 5 years of implementation of the state uiida program 74 facilities were put into operation for a total amount of 547 billion tenge.
Among them, in addition to Kazakhstan, specialists from the CIS countries, as well as medical workers from foreign countries such as Ukraine, Italy, Germany, Sweden, Great Britain, Greece.
On the eve of the session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, we will again meet the train.
pavel Yakovlevich, I wish you good luck and good health, a long life. i wish you prosperity , good health and long life .
Kazakh dombras, nine kumalok, wooden toast, 19th century iconostasis, old photo, portraits, photo albums and other valuable exhibits were accepted into the museum fund, the report said.
According to the agency, 337 people participate in internal migration of Kazakhstan, of which 146 thousand participate in interregional and 191 thousand regional migrations.
Today, the country has created all the necessary conditions for sports.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future," Kazakh initiatives to prepare and hold the International specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," as well as Kazakhstan's participation in "Expo-2015" in Milan.
this is certainly a good indicator. indeed , these are very good indicators .
it's ready, it's open.
highly appreciated Kazakhstan's stay in Ethiopia at the level of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary and wished fruitful work to the diplomatic mission of Kazakhstan.
We have adopted special legislation in Kazakhstan that provides benefits and opportunities. kazakhstan has adopted a special law , which gives great opportunities and benefits .
Islam wants peace, and what is called "Islamic terrorism" has neither religious nor national characteristics.
The implementation of one of the main directions of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is concern for the health of the nation, because the health of the nation is the basis of our future.
The change in prices for fruits and vegetables for the week occurred as follows: in the capital, tomato prices decreased by 14% from 589 to 508 tenge/kg.
the meeting ended with a discussion of topical issues of the development of domestic culture and art.
Nursultan Nazarbayev, on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on his own behalf, expressed sincere condolences to the families and families of the victims of the events, as well as to the entire French people.
As part of 188 separate system communications battalions, I fought with the Japanese, "said the veteran.
among respondents, the number of people working in this system is increasing, "he said.
It is expected that the action "Train" My Kazakhstan, "dedicated to the Year of the People of Kazakhstan, will give a new impetus to the holding of events on such dates as the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the Great Patriotic War, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution.
After the implementation of the project, 100 buses will appear in each city, which will allow selling the products of the Semaz plant, "said the head of the region.
We, representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Karaganda region, congratulate the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev on a convincing victory in the early elections. we , the representatives of the assembly of people of kazakhstan of karaganda region , warmly congratulate leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev on the confident victory in the snap elections and the inauguration of the president of kazakhstan .
they are also planned to be handed over this year.
Olympiad will contribute to the development of intellectual abilities of graduates of civil and military educational institutions of the country, to increase the prestige of military service and armed forces in the state.
The President of Tajikistan also noted the development of mutually beneficial bilateral relations.
The festival is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of UNESCO and is held with the support of the National Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan for UNESCO, the Almaty Cluster Bureau of UNESCO, the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Governor's Office of Almaty and the Foundation of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Through this, we have the opportunity to study the established system of world trade, its standards and norms and rules.
the new plant produces reinforced concrete products and elements necessary for housing construction using new technologies, "the report said.
these centers are very necessary for entrepreneurs. no doubt , esc is necessary for the businessmen .
in addition, he noted that representatives of state bodies also need to clearly understand the requirements of the law.
Today, April 26, 2015, in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the holding of early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 25 of this year, a vote on early presidential elections will be held in all regions of the republic. today , on april 26 , 2015 in accordance with the presidential decree dated 25 february this year on appointment of snap election of the president of kazakhstan all regions of the country will vote on early election of the president of kazakhstan .
In general, this is a modern education for me. the thing this school gave me - a modern training .
we can say it with pride.
All services are provided within the period established by the standards of public services in the field of medical and pharmaceutical activities.
Today, domestic athletes delight Kazakhstanis with their achievements and glorify our forces.
The Prime Minister of Lithuania congratulated Kazakhstanis on the festive holidays this year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, including in the trade, economic, fuel and energy, space and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
Kazakhstanis rejoice in your every success. the kazakhstani people enjoy your achievements .
Today, the year of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has begun
During the visit of the Ambassador of Kazakhstan, the Governor of the Prahova region during a meeting with Mrs. Rodika Parashiv discussed issues of interregional cooperation.
for me, the title of garrison hero is proud. title of most beautiful girl of the garrison is very honorable for me .
reporting to the head of state on the activities of the fund headed by him, a. Shaueev noted the special importance of state support in the development of the Kazakh language.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that it was the Norman Four summit, especially Vladimir Putin's active position during the negotiations, that contributed to the agreement in Minsk.
The expert center "Sazadweg," which is a strategic partner of the office of the Prime Minister of Hungary, discussed the priorities of cooperation in the information and expert sphere.
The construction of 90 poultry farms with a capacity of 3 thousand tons in Kazakhstan will reduce imports to 50%. the construction of three poultry farms with a total capacity of 90 thousand tons of meat per year will reduce the volume of imports by 50 % .
It is planned that 17 war veterans from the West Kazakhstan region will celebrate the 70th anniversary of victory in the capital.
At the request of the Polish ambassador, the Chairman of the Senate presented the situation before the elections in Kazakhstan, the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
we will review the image of the postal carrier, we will provide smartphones for postal employees in each city and region, "he said.
the project is aimed at providing unemployed women with theoretical and practical knowledge, advising on opening their own business based on green technologies.
in this case, the issue of entrepreneurship development is resolved.
3.3 billion tenge is allocated to increase the authorized capital of Irtysh social entrepreneurial corporations.
at the same time, the share of developed countries, according to the international monetary fund, is gradually declining. however , according to imf forecasts , the share of the most developed countries will be gradually declined .
The President also expressed warm gratitude to Nursultan Nazarbayev war veteran Kaliev Kabdosh Kalievich.
we, members of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, appeal to the deputy group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a call to initiate early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Another feature of the construction of housing and social facilities is that investment in this area is attracted by private individuals.
Therefore, no payments will be made within 3 months, today this level is 23.5%, "said the Chairman of the National Bank.
on the Eternal Fire in the State Radio and Radio defenders of the Fatherland laid flowers and paid tribute to veterans.
tax collection mechanisms are radically changing. tax collection mechanisms will be radically changed .
all laboratories comply with foreign standards.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan noted that such international conferences as the Astana Economic Forum create conditions for general communication between world institutions and international organizations on financial issues.
today we have one and a half thousand companies working with the reception of guests in the Republic of Kazakhstan. today , we have about a thousand of various companies , which are now engaged in receiving guests in kazakhstan .
ethnocultural associations of the capital, pop stars, music and dance ensembles will perform on the square.
a solemn meeting was held at the House of Culture of Metallurgists, at which veterans of the Great Patriotic War were honored.
In his congratulations, the Chairman of the Board of the toyota company D. Shimizu noted that under the able leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has achieved impressive rates of development.
we must ensure that the secondary education system meets world standards, "said the Sarinzhip aslan.
Recall that in 2015, as part of the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, 10 projects with the participation of transnational companies will be implemented in the agricultural sector.
The Development Foundation has prepared a program for the development of the competence of entrepreneurs, carried out in regional centers, single-industry towns, district centers and remote settlements.
In general, if we want to develop agriculture, we must subsidize more, "the chairman of the committee concluded.
According to the deputy, state support is needed to resolve these issues and ensure the development of the tourism sector.
The annual, traditional, important event on human rights is directly connected with state bodies and non-governmental organizations, international organizations. this important event dedicated to human rights became an annual tradition organized by state agencies , non-governmental organizations and international organizations .
On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, a glory park has been improved, on which a monument worth 711 thousand tenge has now been erected.
The interlocutors noted the similarity of the positions of their countries in many pressing issues of regional and international policy and drew attention to the need to intensify trade and investment cooperation, taking into account the potential of the two countries.
The New Zealand side commended and expressed support for Kazakhstan's international and regional security policies, in particular initiatives in the field of global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, as well as measures for the economic and humanitarian reconstruction of Afghanistan after the war.
The head of the national chamber of entrepreneurs ablai myrzakhmetov will take part in the press conference.
Party leader Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of cooperation between the state and civil society. leader of the party nursultan nazarbayev stressed the importance of cooperation between the state and civil society .
Since the first day of independence, the head of state noted that the doors of Kazakhstan are open to the Kazakh diaspora.
The President of Kazakhstan also talked with entrepreneurs of the region and agricultural producers, noting the positive socio-economic indicators of the region.
The classes involved 40 pieces of equipment, 30 combat crews, more than 300 officers and military personnel under the contract.
It is noted that a mosaic with drawings of veterans and current military personnel will be made on a banner with photographs.
Special attention was paid to the prospects for the development of Kazakhstan within the framework of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol is the way to the future."
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
camp gathering will last two weeks.
Recall that recently an updated "personal account" was launched on the egov portal.
Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly, People's Artist of Asanali Ashim and Rymbayev Rose and President of Kazakhstan federation of wrestling literate Mynbayev.
milking is not only a gold sewing technique, it is a special palsaf.
Prominent figures of domestic ballet, who wrote on behalf of the Union of Choreographers of Kazakhstan, noted that all the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, including in the field of culture and art, are directly related to the name of the head of state.
First of all, I want to note that I am honored to be in Kazakhstan. firstly , i would like to say that i am honored to be here .
all of them urged us to abandon our traditional partners, promising a material, political and even military good.
In 1999, when you were chairman of the government, you arrived in Almaty. in 1991 being the head of the government you had paid a visit to almaty .
for example, the Korean Republican Theater of Musical Comedy staged the play "Heirs of the Dulat Isabekov" at home, he said.
the construction of the meat processing plant will be completed in November.
In addition, this year will be launched the first project for the production of polymer products in the territory of the special economic zone.
the foundation in which our administrative activities should function properly, and through this foundation we must create a structure of strategic understanding.
Kazakhstan's model of interethnic and intercultural harmony is perceived with great interest in Canadian political and expert circles.
we should increase last year's tax revenues this year.
it will consider the premises of interstate partnership in the development of international transport corridors, the trans-Caspian international transport route, the implementation of transport and logistics solutions on the Eurasian continent.
There are also 2 friendship houses in the region, 6 Sunday schools for studying the native and state languages, national traditions, 10 youth clubs with choreographic, computer classes, "the report said.
any appeals, complaints regarding the electoral legislation will be adopted and promptly considered by the internal affairs bodies on election day, "the deputy minister explained.
Recall, on February 17 of this year, at an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister T.Duissenova said that specialists of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan are making efforts to improve the quality of services provided in the field of health and social and labor sphere.
In addition, technical and technological specialists such as an agronomist, mechanic, and agricultural farmer will be trained from the budget.
Amitech astana plans to increase the level of production and trade of products, increase export volumes, improve the quality of products.
Under the program "Nұrly zhol - way to the future," it is planned to reconstruct 11.6 km of heating networks and 3 boiler houses (No. 5, Algerians, zhamankuls) for a total amount of 3.6 billion tenge.
in our area, the first project in the food industry was presented by representatives of Mushroom World LLP.
According to Majilis deputy Gulmira Isimbayeva, there are 6 regions in the country with a level of kindergarten coverage lower than the average republican indicator, these are Almaty, the cities of Astana, South Kazakhstan, Almaty, Zhambyl and Mangistau regions.
Construction of Aktobe industrial zone infrastructure will be completed this year.
in Mumbai, he met with the president of the World Council of Cultural Heritage of Zaratushta, a member of the council of religious leaders.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War and home front workers took part in the ceremony.
this feeling has intensified since we were at the president's reception.
This was announced by an international observer from the CIS mission Valery Halev.
In conclusion, Xi jinping invited the President of Kazakhstan to visit China this year.
Acting Director General of the Geneva branch of the UN M. Möller noted that the election of the President of Kazakhstan for a new term will allow to continue and expand cooperation between the pair unit and our country.
our cooperation with the National Chamber will give impetus to the development of entrepreneurship in the region and will be the key to the successful implementation of the tasks set by the head of state, "said akim sko.
on behalf of all youth and athletes. " sapiev.
acting chairman of the board of the Kazagro holding Makhazhanov told the guests about the current mechanisms for financing the national oath, the main directions of the agribusiness 2020 program, the subsidy system, as well as the current priorities for the further development of the Kazagro group of companies.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan should form a system of cultural and humanitarian work with partners in the Eurasian Economic Union. assembly of people of kazakhstan needs to build a system for deepening into the cultural and humanitarian cooperation with our partners in the eurasian economic union .
a national cluster in the field of oil, gas and oil and gas chemistry, oil and gas chemical engineering will be created in the country, representatives of the joint-stock company said.
The Secretary of State further noted that the Fund's interaction with state bodies in 2014: an important family planning program was successfully implemented, reproductive protection of the health of women and youth, immigrants and Oralmans was provided, operational blocking of gender violence in the health system was established, and successful familiarization of public officials with problems in the field and development of the population.
In the city, he received the necessary advice, began to prepare documents.
in Kazakhstan, 17 million people, regardless of nationality, race, language, religion, live in unity and peace, and this needs to be preserved, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
from the regional budget, participants and invalids of the war are provided with material assistance in the amount of 150 thousand tenge.
under the terms of the competition, enterprises producing products or providing services under the sign "made in Kazakhstan" participate in it.
The conference was attended by world-renowned Israeli, German, Russian, Ukrainian and Kazakh scientists and specialists.
exit poll 550 in the polling point up to 7-20 hours, of which 312 urban, 238 rural.
they met with students and teachers of universities, explaining to them the main points of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "the bright path is the way to the future."
According to him, the regional council of veterans published a book of memory for the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
in the middle age group, the first place was taken by Abdrahman's amine, kumarova rachila, sartmans.
In general, it is planned to hold many events, such as a meeting with veterans, where we will tell in detail about today's achievement of independent Kazakhstan.
the participants of the meeting agreed to intensify cooperation between the parliaments of the two countries.
Minister e. An important part of the idrisov's visit was a meeting with the Kazakh diaspora living in the Altai Territory, a visit to the mosque in Gorno-Altaysk, the national museum named after A. Anokhin.
Then the delegates of the XVI Congress of the party "Nұr Otan" e. Nurakhmetova.
we will never forget the terrible days of our war, "Gabdulkafeev assured.
therefore, the congress is of great importance, the initiative to convene it meets the requirements of the time and is necessary, "he said.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the monuments were opened as part of the action "Worship of the native land."
we had an anti-crisis program that the whole world recognized and rated as good. "
this is the action "Made in Kazakhstan," the youth employment project under the program "Nұrly zhol" and the republican essay contest.
Including under the program "Employment Road Map 2020," 57 residents of the district received loans for 133 million tenge, 6 peasant farms under the kulan program issued loans in the amount of 80.5 million tenge, and 3 peasant farms - for 4.6 million tenge.
ordinary Baimurat participated in the liberation of Ukraine, Romania, Hungary.
Kyzylorda pays 1200 tenge per 1 square meter per month.
During a meeting with Muhammad and saleh al-Sada a. Shokybaev informed the interlocutor about the socio-economic, socio-political development of Kazakhstan, as well as the country's achievements in the international arena.	during the meeting with the minister of energy and industry askar shokybayev informed his counterpart about the socio-economic and political development in kazakhstan , as well as achievements on the international stage .	1,05
international experts also noted the active role and openness of Kazakhstan, which is constantly participating in the authoritative discussion platform "east forum berlin."
In addition, on the issue of refining the budget, the head of state instructed to allocate additional funds from the National Fund, which is being done to make the program more effective, "the deputy said at a briefing in the CCS.
According to the leader of the nation, due to the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program, an additional 500 thousand jobs will be created.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the issue of creating conditions for young people.
As noted in the report, in the region there are significant changes in the field of production, new social facilities and structures will be built.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the country has reached a certain level of development, for the further growth of which a new direction is needed.
In general, the meeting noted the good development of partnership relations between Kazakhstan and its headquarters, as well as the bureau of the European region.
In today's conditions, the main thing is to create new jobs, the chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan believes.
K. Tokayev noted that Saudi Arabia is an important partner of Kazakhstan in the Middle East and Islamic world.
Establishment of a joint commission on the quality of health services under the Ministry of Health and Social Development.
the second stage consists of two parts.
I'm an East Texas congressman.
Also, according to the Governor's Office, there was a list of participants in the parade in Moscow and the capital.
According to international information, 10 operations per 1 million people are carried out in developed countries.
During the conversation, topical issues of development of Kazakh-Japanese relations in the social and humanitarian sphere were touched upon.
The need to develop an instrument requires stability in this area. the necessity to develop the document due to the fact that this area also needs some demopolization .
this will give a new impetus to the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan and will work to improve the business and investment climate.
We need to encourage innovators everywhere, praise them, reward them, show them as an example for the country, "the head of state said.
among the products are petroleum products, minerals, consumer goods, grain, machinery and equipment necessary for industry.
The parties noted that the main priority of bilateral relations should be aimed at intensifying cooperation in the field of mining, non-ferrous metals, mechanical engineering, energy, light industry, transport and communications, as well as agriculture.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Andrian Yelemesov in his report thanked the representatives of Italy for supporting the candidacy of the capital, noting that for the first time in the history of this exhibition it will be held in Kazakhstan, representing the developing world and the Muslim community.
we need to determine the number and configuration of objects along roads of republican importance, "he added.
According to the information of the Ministry, as of April 1 of the current year, from the funds of local budgets, one-time material assistance was provided to 32.5 thousand veterans (participants in the Second World War, disabled persons, persons equated to them, home front workers) in the amount of 1.1 billion tenge; 82 participants and a disabled CIA were granted asylum; 1.3 thousand veterans' houses were repaired for 31.6 million tenge, telephones were installed in their apartments; Out of 15.1 thousand citizens, expenses for utilities for 581.9 million tenge were paid; 924 veterans received tickets for spa treatment for 60.2 million tenge; 17.6 thousand veterans are provided with medicines worth 72.4 million tenge; 416 participants and disabled of the Second World War built dentures in the amount of 10.8 million tenge; 16.9 thousand veterans received preferential travel along inner-city routes for 167.5 million tenge; 21 BOS participants were given the possibility of preferential travel on suburban transport and railway transport for 671.4 thousand tenge; 409 veterans are provided with fuel for 9.9 million tenge; 10.6 thousand veterans were recorded in periodicals for 19.7 million tenge.
crisis of primitive order, mood of general injustice. the first is the crisis , the growing general uncertainty .
Unemployment is also growing in a number of countries, "said A.D.
Since 2010, a lot of work has been done, the number of preschool institutions in the country has increased by 4022, "he said.
The agenda of the 132nd Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union includes the formation of a new system of water management, issues of international law.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 71829, of which 181338 units were small enterprises (less than 50 people), "A. Smailov said.
in this regard, it is envisaged to pass tests in state legal training, fire, physical, tactical, combat training and other subjects.
our task is to ensure that the entrepreneur travels to the same center in districts and villages in order to get answers to all questions, "said N. Altaev.
energy and industrial safety.
Participants of the event watched a video about how March is celebrated in Kazakhstan, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iraq, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, noted that the joint celebration of this holiday not only contributes to the popularization of America, but also positively affects the strengthening of friendship of the peoples of Eurasia and the Middle East.
M.B. Barturi noted the importance of further dialogue between Kazakhstan and Aida, in particular, the exchange of delegations, the participation of Kazakh representatives in the work of Eidu's relevant bodies and support for the effective implementation of all planned joint projects, including projects included in the Eurasian competitiveness program.
To date, parliament is considering a bill "On amending some legislative acts to regulate the grain market."
The harvested wheat will provide the domestic market with grain seeds, as well as export 1.7 million tons of products to foreign markets, "he said. kulagin.
Colonel Kairat Sadykov, Head of the Military Engineering Institute of Radio Electronics and Communications, noted that veterans play an important role in the military-patriotic education of young people.
A. Lukashenko spoke about the results of negotiations between the presidents of Russia, Ukraine, France and the German Chancellor in Minsk in the Norman format, "the statement said.
firstly, as a pillar of stability, we need to increase the share of the middle class, develop business, support it, and help the inhabitants of our country to be a state with medium wealth.
the people made their choice in transparent and normal conditions, "said international observers.
The Qatari Minister and the head of the central bank gratefully accepted the invitation of the Speaker of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
The Chairman of the People's Government of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Szaker congratulated the President of Kazakhstan on his re-election and noted the strengthening of political and strategic cooperation between Kazakhstan and China.
in particular, the activities of two commissions under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the republican commission for training personnel abroad and the commission for awarding state prizes named after al-Farabi in the field of science and technology - are aimed at solving these and other problems.
Since the beginning of 2014, 234 apartments have been allocated for young families as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
Vice Minister of Energy of the Ministry of Energy of the Myrzagaliyev are headed by the intergovernmental commission on the Kazakh side, and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Tourism on the Romanian side.
During this period, enterprises of the city produced products worth 336.9 billion tenge, 29.7 billion tenge of taxes were paid to the budget.
for outstanding services in state and social activities, for a significant contribution to the socio-economic and cultural development of the country, strengthening friendship and cooperation between peoples, "said M. Tazhin.
As the President of the country said at the enlarged government meeting, "- an anti-crisis program, which is the basis of job creation and economic growth.
they must cooperate fruitfully, "he added.
Thus, by launching investment projects, more than 8,000 jobs will be created.
we had to send comments on the telephone numbers about the things that come to their address, "said B. Musin.
In addition, I want to say that we will increase from 44 to 200 grants allocated to Kazakhstanis for training in Hungary, "said the Prime Minister of Hungary.
I want young people to always help them, respect older parents, so our people should be.
in particular, he noted that work has now been completed on the creation of an automated information and analytical new system of judicial authorities, called "arbitration."
in practical logic, your message "beam path" was made timely and highly appreciated domestically and abroad.
Recall that the exhibition "Pavlodar in the wake of history" is held as part of the project of the National Museum "From the bowels of the history of centuries of Kazakhstan."
3) activation of section III with a length of 7.5 kilomts from tets-2 to pavilion du 1;
our ethnocultural association regularly takes part in all holidays, and we actively participate in festive events. our ethnocultural association regularly takes part in all celebrations , and it also helps them to be organized .
The head of state noted 5 institutional reforms, taking into account the processes taking place in the world economy, the changes will be aimed at further improving tariff policy within the framework of Eurasian integration, "the political scientist said.
shishov e. As of January 1 of this year, the potato storage shk delivered 1 thousand 650 tons of potatoes to the capital.
Young soldiers will receive courage and heroism from you, "said Major General Marat Kusain, First Deputy Commander of the South Regional Command.
the primary product - young sturgeon fish and fertilized material (inseminated, worms) were obtained in 50-60 days, and after 1.5 years the commodity sturgeon, and caviar for eating, respectively, will be obtained in 4-5 years, the department explained.
in Kazakhstan, instead of the old certificate of conformity, they began to issue a new model of documents on the circulation of vehicles, the report said.
it was impossible to mention all the areas in which women worked. it is impossible to list all spheres where the women work .
it is not in vain said that every child is a type of family, every citizen is a state.
It should be noted that 2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, this year marks exactly 20 years since the founding of the assembly.
Akmola and Kostanay regions.
in addition, last year was a turning point for the growth of meat and meat exports.
This topic will be included in the plan of research of the commission on sanitary, phytosanitary and veterinary measures for 2015-2016.
the new law has been expanded to 4 levels.
members of the commission discussed issues of expertise affecting business, the introduction of new requirements for business entities.
on this bright holiday, I wish all believers health, spiritual strength, good luck in good endeavors!
3.2% more than last year, "the report said.
The largest number of tests is planned in the South Kazakhstan region, "the report said.
That is, 40 families will receive housing.
The Federation of Modern and Sports Dance of Kazakhstan (bbf rkb) is the largest federation in Kazakhstan in the field of sports and modern choreography.
all efforts to develop the country are being made for young people and their future, "the head of state said.
it is planned to bring this figure to 106%, "the akim explained.
During the visit, the Ambassador gave a lecture to undergraduates of the Institute of Management and the Institute of Diplomacy of the Academy on the topic "Relations of Kazakhstan with Germany," and also told the participants in detail about cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany in the field of public service and public administration.
In particular, for the current year, the costs of the following projects have been optimized: the construction of the "white stone drilling" unit of Kazneftegaz, the construction of a gas and oil gas well, the production of hydrocarbon raw materials, the purchase of passenger cars, the acquisition of locomotives and electric trains, "the head of the department said.
The main goal of this year is to strengthen harmony and unity between peoples and strengthen the friendship of Kazakhstanis, "N.Nazarayev said.
The forum will be attended by representatives of diplomatic missions of Europe, Latin America, Asia and even the African continent.
The event was attended by representatives of more than 70 companies operating in various sectors of the Canadian economy: energy, mining, geology, construction, equipment production, renewable energy, innovation and education.
According to him, students use the data obtained at the factories when writing coursework.
every year, more than 1,500 people, foreign military representatives, experts from various NTO headquarters and the military diplomatic corps registered in Kazakhstan take part in the training.
As you know, in August Minsk hosted a meeting of the troika, the leadership of the European Union and Ukraine. as you know a meeting of leaders of the eaeu member states , president of ukraine and top european union officials met in august in belarus 's capital .
the working group should complete this work within three months.
7,301 objects worth 40.8 billion tenge were legalized.
after the war, without returning to his homeland, he served in Germany for two years.
of these, 30% have the first stage, and the second - 57%.
Thus, within the framework of the industrialization map in 2015, we plan to launch 17 projects worth 104.6 billion tenge and provide stable work for 1.5 thousand people.
in the near future we expect a large group of scientists, each of whom will work in their field, "the minister concluded.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of development of bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic and investment spheres.
In addition, the parties considered a joint project between Kazakhstan and Egypt regarding the activities of the Nur-Mubarak University, as well as the training of Kazakhstani students at al-Azhar University.
we provide an opportunity for ministers and heads of departments to independently solve budget issues. we 'll let the ministers , heads of departments to decide the budget themselves that you are given , " nursultan nazarbayev has said .
the authors note the importance of the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev for the further successful development of the country, strengthening the authority, ensuring the growth of the well-being of all Kazakhstanis.
In turn, the basis of Almaty's economy is small and medium-sized business, which produces a third of the products produced throughout the country.
President N. Nazarbayev's visit to Brussels was an indicator of how much we pay attention to cooperation with the European Union. the visit of the president of the republic of kazakhstan , nursultan nazarbayev , to brussels in october 2014 further underlined the importance that we attach to our relations with europe .
the bill to the Civil Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments to the Budget" (Tax Code), the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Administrative Offenses, as well as amendments and additions to the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on advertising" and "on gambling."
It is noted that the project is of an environmental nature.
Our head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that if we profess the wisdom and greatness of the dzhambul, then the main reason is that the dzhambul dream is combined with the human dream.
Also, as part of the bilateral visit, the head of the ICD will hold a number of official meetings, in particular, with Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov and akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
Now companies from the samruk-kazyna group carefully analyze business processes in the main activity (reengineering), corporate governance, interaction with government agencies, etc.
the athlete proved that he is a real wrestler, - the message says.
According to the Department of Statistics, in January-December last year the main volumes of industrial products were produced in Petropavlovsk (101 billion tenge), Musrepov (16.6 billion tenge), Tayynshin (9.5 billion tenge) and Kyzylzhar districts (8.6 billion tenge), which account for 85% of the regional production of industrial products.
In his opinion, Kazakhstan has achieved great success today and the plans of the President of Kazakhstan for the further development of the state open up great prospects for everyone.
As you know, the regular container service of the Langan-Almaty direction made a trip on February 25 this year from the city of jiansu.
we must provide all Mangistauans with affordable and high-quality housing as much as possible, "said Governor of Mangistau region Alik Aidarbayev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the director of the archive. Noorteva noted that cooperation in the field of archival affairs is an important contribution to the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between Kazakhstan and Finland.
To do this, we will develop the agglomeration of Pavlodar and aksu, actively attract talented youth.	in this regard we plan to develop agglomeration of pavlodar and aksu cities , attract the talented young people actively ,  mr. bozumbayev added .
we are ready to vote for you unanimously, "the authors write.
He noted that this issue was one of the key issues at the expanded government meeting in Akorda with the participation of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the same time, the message identifies a number of key tasks aimed at preserving and improving the country's sustainable economic development.
The volume of gross agricultural output in 2014 amounted to 123.9 billion tenge, or the index of the volume of production - 101.9%, including crop production - 98.8%, livestock - 103.7%, the Department of Internal Policy of the region reported.
The state revenue authorities received 6 applications for legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 215.9 million tenge: 3 residential facilities in the amount of 211.4 million tenge; 1 non-residential objects in the amount of 1.5 million tenge, including 1 commercial object in the amount of 1.5 million tenge and 2 participation of legal entities in the amount of 3.0 million tenge.
A large-scale program continues with China, the volume of which is 40 investment projects, 20 of which we plan to conclude in March this year. currently we work on about 40 projects , 20 of them are expected to be signed in this march .
Recall that the competition was organized by the committee for the development of languages ​ ​ and the socio-political work of the Ministry of Culture and Sports within the framework of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the exhibition shows our capital on the other hand, expands it and flourishes. the exhibition will present our capital city from a completely different side , expand and decorate it .
Within the framework of the Nұr Otan program, the tasks will be implemented and financially strengthened, "said A. Bekenov.
the first project presented at the meeting is related to the construction of an oilseeds processing plant.
this is the first cup of the Kazakh team in this race.
The purpose of the rally is "Eternal youth of the country - to the industry!" Creating conditions for the exchange of experience of project participants and developing proposals for its improvement.
a prerequisite for our prosperity.
Being a candidate member of various international organizations, we are ready to provide mutual support to our countries. we continue to support each other in various international platforms .
During the conversation, the parties discussed issues of holding congresses in the capital of Kazakhstan. emphasized the relevance of the Nazarbayev initiative in the context of a difficult international situation and the increase in the number of cases of violence in the world on a religious basis.
a new form of education is equipped with a medical room, there is a music hall, a sports hall, a playground.
the expected result is an increase in the level of adaptation, socialization and profitability in everyday life, school and society.
G. Abdykalikova noted the importance of drawing attention to priority areas of cooperation, the work of which takes into account the interests of Kazakhstan.
Introduction of the single window principle in export and import customs procedures.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the interview took place informally, during which D.Nazarbayeva informed future specialists about the current youth policy in Kazakhstan, the labor market and measures of state support for young specialists.
In turn, Minister of Education and Science Aslan Sarinzhipov presented memorable gifts to the winners of international and republican Olympiads.
this event once again proved the unity of the Kazakhstani people.
therefore, we believe that in-depth cooperation with Kazakhstan is important.
According to KTZ, the units of the Ural, sewer, mangistau and road and separate trunk networks got acquainted with the information about the management system introduced in the company, as well as explained the basic principles of international standards, conducted practical training on the identification and assessment of hazardous, environmental aspects.
Next year, a professional hockey team representing our region will be created in the major league of Kazakhstan.
In turn, m.hoglund noted that the theme of the "energy of the future" of EXPO-2017, an Astana platform that allows you to discuss issues of ensuring energy and environmental security, sustainable development of the planet, is of particular interest to Norway.
the white staff of the Peter and Paul Heavy Engineering Plant also supported the holding of presidential elections and asked the head of state to nominate his candidacy.
this will improve the quality of public services, consolidate and save resources in the performance of functions, increase the level of corporate governance and improve the quality of management decisions.
I look forward to the upcoming visit to your great country to discuss joint opportunities to strengthen and diversify bilateral ties. i look forward to the upcoming visit to your great country to discuss opportunities to deepen and diversify bilateral relations .
the first stimulus options are ready.	there will be no repressive measures ,  karagusova stated .
this unique institution implements the main principle of our society - peace, harmony and cohesion of the Kazakh people.
To conduct an internship for the full cycle of international response, an international field coordination center (osocc), an international search and rescue team (rdc), international rescuers at the reception and admission point conduct search and rescue operations at the base camp of the Rocky City - Capital training ground during April 1-3 without interruption, working out actions 36.
It should be noted that today in the acord, under the chairmanship of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, an expanded meeting of the government is being held.
Kazakhstan plays a large role in the international market as a connection between Central Asia and the Caspian Sea.
children depicted family members, symbols of the capital and the country. children depicted everything that was connected with their beloved families , the capital and the country , " the message reads .
Today, as part of the "Eternal Memory" campaign, military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will hold an athletics race dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
It was also noted that the new code should be brought into line with the provisions of bills that are under consideration by the parliament of the republic amending the current code. along with that , the new code should be brought into line with the provisions of the draft laws pending before the parliament of the republic of kazakhstan , which amends the code .
Adilbek Dzhaksybekov presented special gifts to veterans of the Great Patriotic War, wishing good health to Terekbay Abdrahmanov, Safonich District and Vladimir Kalsin.
61 million tenge is provided for participation in festive processions in the capital and cities of Moscow, dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War, to compensate the expenses of participants and disabled people of the Second World War, as well as accompanying persons for travel, accommodation and food from the national budget.
Within the framework of the work curriculum, the following topics were discussed: international documents regulating the quality of the pharmaceutical system, national standards in the field of pharmacy (worthy practices).
Also, the regional director of the European Bureau of the World Health Organization praised the visibility of the decision of the President of Kazakhstan to attract investment in the social sphere.
today it is very important to strengthen unity and stability, so we consider you a worthy candidate for the presidency of the country. today , more than ever it is necessary to strengthen unity and stability now like never before , and we think you are the best candidate for the post of the president of the country .
During the meeting, the prospects of strengthening cooperation between the two countries were considered, as well as the deepening of relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union within the framework of the upcoming Luxembourg presidency in the EU.
According to the deputy chairman, today the most popular professions belong to the field of construction and metalworking.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, Semipalatinsk Asbestos Cement Products Plant LLP occupies a leading position in Kazakhstan in the production of coatings and smooth slips, sand and cement packaging, cement and sand coatings.
I am not saying that the modernization of metallurgical enterprises will continue. in addition , the modernization of metallurgic enterprises will be continued , " the minister noted .
we believe that this is a platform for various solutions.
The bill should be considered in parliament within six months of this year and will enter into force next year, he said.
the main trading partners are the Russian Federation, Belarus, the Chinese People's Republic, Turkey.
There will be severe frosts in Kazakhstan, but there are many guests who are conscientiously coping, "said the head of Agro Nur Asia LLP Gahrimani Massoud Hasanovich.
the first direction is employment in infrastructure projects, that is, in projects implemented in the countryside. the first task is to provide employment for infrastructure projects .
itb-2015 "together with the Secretary General of the world tourism organization taleb rifai took part in the opening ceremony of the Kazakhstan stand.
I think that the voice of every Kazakhstani is important for our country, "said the surgeon.
we must ensure the preservation in memory of future generations of people who contributed to the formation and development of the country, "the minister said.
to date, the convention is a universal international instrument signed by countries around the world.
Chairman of the Upper House of Parliament, Head of the Secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, Khatakayev Abdullah ii, praising the efforts of the King of Jordan to promote the spirit of tolerance and mutual respect, voiced the invitation of the President of the Nazarbayev. at the v congress, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11 this year.
through us, cargo will be sent from China to the Caucasus, to Russia, Ukraine and Europe, "said Urazov.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, K. Zhigalov presented the Canadian parliamentarian an invitation to the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11.
According to the senator, the growth of SMEs, according to international experts, is the result of favorable conditions for doing business.
future generations will know what contribution our veterans made to the victory. "
in the field of entrepreneurship, along with the UKP, the national agency "kaznex invest" operates in the republic.
Today, more than 18 thousand women 4 and raise a large number of children, and more than 17 thousand owners of "golden colleges" and "silver colleges" live in the region.
the sides also discussed issues of bilateral cooperation.
This was announced at the meeting in the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan today by the meeting of the First Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Salidat Kairbekova and Deputy Chairman of the Grodno Regional Executive Committee of the Republic of Belarus Viktor Liskovich.
Thanks to the assistance of the Noble Heritage Fund, the necessary medical equipment and equipment were purchased to allow our patients to provide obstetric, gynaecological and neonatal care around the clock, "said the director of the center, professor of kudaibergens.
According to him, the implementation of comprehensive measures will ensure industrial safety within the country.
member of the Central Election Commission for the work of the seminar, members of the Akmola Regional Territorial Election Commission, chairmen of territorial and precinct election commissions, heads of the offices of the governors of Burabai, evaporated, Akkol and working regions, international and domestic observers, representatives of the media.
This suggests that electoral campaigning was organized at a high level, "he said.
from the Italian side, veterans of the guerrilla war, members of the guerrilla association, a representative of the city hall of trieste, deputy president of the province Igor Dolenets, a representative of the administration of friuli-venice-giulia, Francesco-peroni, the highest military, police and gendarmerie command of the region took part.
Recall that investment subsidies for the first time in the country are implemented as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program this year.
for example, presidential candidate Nursultan Nazarbayev has significantly more funds accumulated in the election fund than others, so he can turn to outdoor advertising more, "he concluded.
the ambassador informed the Tokayev. about readiness for the upcoming official visit of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
I want to emphasize the high level of relations between France and Kazakhstan, which was noticeable in my recent visit to your country, the telegram says.
he will definitely go down in the history of Kazakhstan as a special honor, "said I. sauer.
Today, 2.6 million people are employed in the field of small and medium-sized businesses of the country, which is a third of the able-bodied population. today , more than 2.6 million people , or one-third of the workforce are employed in the small and medium business of the country .
The Eeo Business Council will replace the platform "business dialogue, uniting the largest business associations of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia, which are still functioning, and now it will include new members.
There are such opportunities in Kazakhstan, we are considering the possibility of supplying equipment to two plants, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Vietnam, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, heads of various development institutions of Vietnam, representatives of the Vietnamese scientific intelligentsia and the expert community studying development issues of the CIS countries and Europe were invited to the event.
through the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" indicators were determined: the number of deaths in accidents decreased, the time for ambulance was reduced.
In accordance with article 56, paragraph 2, of the constitutional law on elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, presidential candidates must support at least one percent of the total number of voters representing at least two thirds of the regions, cities of republican significance and the capital of the republic.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the Eurasian Economic Union has begun to function, there are high hopes for it.
During the meeting, issues of further strengthening of Kazakh-Turkish relations, increasing cooperation on a wide range of ties were discussed.
we said that the formation of the observation staff of the shu was completed. we were informed that the process of forming the mission of observers of the sco has been finished .
The Ministry of Education and Science, together with Nazarbayev Intellectual School, is developing a draft standard for preschool education, "Zhontayeva said during a press conference of the Central Communications Service.
I support an exhibition that collects exhibits not from one museum, but from all regions. i welcome the exhibition , which attracts not only the exhibits of the museum , but also the entire region .
now work is underway on the Kyrgyz side to ensure a system of sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary control in accordance with eurozone standards, "said the Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan during the Eurasian intergovernmental meeting in the village of temir-shed.
in accordance with paragraph 2 of article 27 of the constitutional law, election campaigning ends at zero hours local time on the day preceding the day of the election, that is, at 2015 o'clock on April 24 00.00.
in his congratulations, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that "your generation has become an example for the younger generation during the war and subsequent years with its military and labor exploits, a contribution to strengthening the sovereignty of our country."
However many years passed, the memory of the participants in the Great Patriotic War remained forever. even after many years the veterans of the great patriotic war remember those terrible years .
this meeting was the occasion for signing key agreements in Minsk on September 5 and 19.
Thus, 43 secondary schools, 9 kindergartens and 8 additional facilities were built in the East Kazakhstan region from 2012 to 2014, 10 buildings were overhauled.
As part of the republican project "Victory" with the support of "Samruk-kazyna" in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, we held a competition for writing essays among schoolchildren.
According to forecasts, the volume of expenses for all time will be 4,080 million tenge, including 643 million tenge of investment costs.
also 2.1% of enterprises and organizations registered in the current period are public associations and foundations; 1.7% - institutions; 0.6% - association of legal entities; 0.5% - consumer cooperatives; 0.2% are state enterprises.
The head of state thanked international observers for their interest in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan, noting the growing political activity of voters and confidence in the authorities.
in our country there is an understanding of the change, production or growth of the economy, as well as a change in the soul, that is, the self-consciousness of each person must change, "the erimbet said.
During the war years, he participated in battles in Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Austria.
appoint - akim of East Kazakhstan region.
He is also in tune with the document "Plan of the Nation -100 Steps," he said, Assistant Secretary General for Economic and Social Affairs.
Work on the draft Customs Code of the EAEU continues. working on a project of the customs code of the eaeu has not been completed yet .
as well as immediate response to TZh facts, campaigning, preparation for EXPO-2017: learning the language of flows of TD employees, ensuring security at new exhibition facilities.
The head of state got acquainted with the process of creating powerful transformers and examined the finished products of the plant.
Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, head of the secretariat of kha e. togzhanov. Minister of Education and Science A. Sarinzhipov, Minister of Culture and Sports a. Mukhamediuly, Director of the Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan Y. Karin, Director of the Central Communications Service under the President of Kazakhstan Y. Babakumarov. as well as representatives of the region, the field of internal policy, culture, heads of youth policy departments and heads of regional secretariats of kha, rectors of universities, representatives of the regional garden and the scientific and expert community.
Another area of ​ ​ the agribusiness 2020 program is the financial recovery of business entities in order to reduce credit burdens and the risk of bankruptcy.
The main direction of eco-operating LLP is collection and transportation of wastes to be destroyed, processing of domestic and industrial wastes.
In addition, last year a center of peace and harmony was created in London, which today is actively working within the framework of the model of Kazakh inter-ethnic harmony, "he added.
As A. Sekeshev noted, Kazakhstan is very active in developing transport logistics, especially between China and Europe.
in the nomination "Best Athlete of the Year" and. Ilyin, Golovkin, z. Chinshanlo, d., g. eleusins, d. balandin, n. doesn't blush, w. diyas, eh. Nugymarov.
Italian experts noted that the Republic of Kazakhstan is located in such a sensitive and geopolitically important region as Central Asia, demonstrating significant development results, and President Nazarbayev in the book "g-global: the world of the 21st century" sets concrete and clear goals in the further development of a promising future of Kazakhstan.
the topic of elections in all gardens of Kazakhstan, including on the Internet, social networks, became the main one until late in the morning.
logistics centers provide regional consolidation and distribution of goods, production of goods to the markets of central Asia, European Persian flow, Caucasian and Turkish.
this is facilitated by the special economic zone "capital - new city."
One of the most important directions of the implementation of state policy, voiced in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol is the way to the future," is the provision of education for all segments of the population.
pay special attention to construction work and quality, "the Governor of the region said.
Within the framework of the trade mission, with the assistance of the Kazakh Embassy in Armenia, meetings were held in state bodies, including with the mayor of the city.
next year we must begin mass construction.
On July 17, 2015, 9 winners of the festival will take part in a concert as part of the 47th world conference of the International Council of Traditional Music.
"We appreciate our strong, open and developing relations with Kazakhstan, and are also committed to establishing even stronger relations on a wide range of bilateral agenda," the congratulation says.
grain crops - 97.1 thousand hectares, oilseeds - 17.4 thousand hectares, fodder crops - 49.5 thousand hectares, potatoes and vegetables - 0.75 thousand hectares.
special attention was paid to issues of scientific and cultural exchange between the two countries.
Senators on the ratification of the agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the readmission of persons illegally residing in the territory of their States; " Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Amendments and Additions to Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Legal Regulation of Intellectual Property (first reading).
President of the Republic of Moldova Tymofti sincerely congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his convincing victory in the presidential election.
competition gives our producers the opportunity to spur and take a decent place, "he added.
training seminars will begin in April.
According to the results of last year, 43,878 criminal cases were opened in 2014 by 93.3%, the judge says.
The Address to the People of Kazakhstan outlines projects on the formation of transport and logistics infrastructure.
the fourth reform of the "nation of a united future" will be resolved if three requirements are met.
provision is provided for assistance in case of emergencies, "the report said.
most of the funds are aimed at increasing meat potential in Kazakhstan. we invested in a program on developing the capacity of the meat industry in kazakhstan .
they received a cash prize and an honorary certificate on behalf of the Kazakhstan-2050 movement.
According to the Governor's Office, the concert "The Great Victory, Thousand Prayers" dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory "was held as part of the action" 70 star days. "
from there we went to the front.
we have built a good railway line, and now it is necessary to expand its capacity. we have established a railway network , we mean expanding its capacity .
Batyr was awarded the honorary title "Honorary Citizen of the Karatal Region," "Honorary Railway Worker."
Also, as the First Vice-Minister of National Economy noted, priority will be given to projects implemented in 2015-2016 to modernize MSW.
It is worth noting that the work within the framework of this organization is aimed at improving the national legislation of the CIS countries regulating competition and developing their application on the basis of international experience.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that in order to achieve the goals, the country needs to remain faithful to the ideas of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, stability, friendship and well-being.
I think that holding an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan is a type of control, a vector of development of not only the economic, state, but also the peaceful approach of Kazakh society, "Bashmakov said.
support of youth policy, education, health care, formation of healthy lifestyle, ecology and environment, protection of citizens' rights and provision of legal advice, work with elderly people and disabled people, gender policy, development of culture and so on, "the Governor said.
in Kazakhstan, each ethnic group has the opportunity to preserve and develop its own language, traditions.
we are actively working on the creation of a capital infrastructure project.	also we work with the company , which is responsible for the infrastructure of the city of astana .	1,06
"with a diploma - to the village!" according to the project, only 4 thousand specialists visited Almaty region.
The discovery of new studies and materials about faith will contribute to the modern understanding of the adoption of war, "said the deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Nurlybek Sherubaev.
At the same time, as the Chairman of the GS noted, Kazakhstan has completed many tasks, the Eurasian Economic Union has been created, the state is implementing a large-scale anti-crisis program and Kazakhstan has become a center of stability and unity of the people.
he congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his convincing victory in the presidential election.
Also, a war veteran was handed the keys to an apartment on a kaliolla.
Nadezhda Stepanovna was also awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of the 1st degree, the Red Labor Badge, the orders "for the victory over Germany," "for valiant work" and honorary signs in the field of health care.
The head of the region got acquainted with the economy of Farmer-2002 LLP.
In addition, our colleagues visited Almaty, Kokshetau, Karaganda, and also visited Shymkent, South Kazakhstan region.
The President of Kazakhstan drew the attention of the population to the development of the region and the increase in the population.
the creation and implementation of regional projects and programmes together with the UN should become an important area for the development of regional integration. " idriss.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan drew special attention to the content of the five institutional reforms of the President n.a. Nazarbayev.
In 2014, compared to last year, the number of operating enterprises increased by 7%.
On the eve of the May 9 celebration, a decree was issued by President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "On single anniversary medals dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945."
According to the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region, projects of "arai" in category "b," "cheese marzhan" and "k," "kulametov" and "c" in category "b" were considered at the meeting.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, in January of this year rainbow LLP for the production of plastics, metals and pipelines was put into operation.
As the director of one of the Karaganda enterprises - power beton LLP noted, joint work with general contractors began immediately after the signing of a memorandum of cooperation.
entered a medical institute, went to work in celipod.
at a press conference, the Director General for Communications with the White Samruk-Kazyna Society Darkhan Kaletaev, the Organization of Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the President of the Union of Nurlan Erimbets, the Director of the Eurasian Media Forum Public Fund, the Operator of the 70 Victory Action Ruslan Dzhemkov, the 24, the Director Ernar NurBbekov and Deputy bekov Director ernar Nurbekov, and deputy Director bekov of the Director.
by commissioning, it will be possible to drive about 80 thousand cars per day, and in 2030 - up to 100 thousand cars per day, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
In addition, according to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the Chinese side offers the Kazakh government a project to replace the capacities of the non-resource sector in Kazakhstan.
today we visited Kokshetau and watched the election. today we have been to kokshetau and observed the election process .
the activities of the commission will focus on the supply programme. the activity of the commission will be focused primarily on the implementation of the program of import substitution .
in modern economic conditions, it is necessary to work together.
with this event, we wanted to support our colleagues, raise their morale before a significant event and congratulate everyone on the upcoming holiday. with this concert we want to support our colleagues , to raise their morale before an important event and congratulate all of the upcoming holiday .
The Kazakh side, taking into account the issues envisaged during the meeting, noted the possibilities of cooperation between jica and jbic organizations in the areas of assistance to Japanese development with regional organizations of central Asia (the International Fund for Saving the Island, the Central Asian Regional Information Coordination Center (Tsarycz), the Central Asian Disaster Response Center).	the kazakhstan side stressed the importance of interaction between japanese organizations involved in development assistance such as jica , jbic and the central asian regional organizations ( ifas , caricc , central asian center for disaster response ) , and drew attention to the ability of the kazakhstan agency for international development ( kazaid ) which is being created in the republic of kazakhstan .	1,06
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on deepening cooperation on joint projects to develop human capital, stimulate science and innovation, and develop labor skills that meet the requirements of the labor market.	at the end of the meeting , the sides agreed to deepen cooperation in the sphere of implementation of joint projects on human capital development , promotion of science development and innovations , development of labor-market skills meeting the demands on the market .	1,06
my father went to war, and my brother was called to the Brest gate, where he died.
Kazakhstan and Thailand attach great importance to cooperation in the development of interreligious and intercultural dialogue.
Germany is the main partner of Kazakhstan in the countries of the Eurasian Union and the fifth partner of Kazakhstan in terms of goods. germany is a key partner of kazakhstan in the european union and the fifth largest trade partner of kazakhstan .
a number of projects totaling 6.5 billion tenge were implemented in the agro-industrial complex.
The international project of the capitals of Islamic culture is designed to increase the relevance of the potential of the member countries of the organization of Islamic cooperation for cultural exchange, the further development of humanitarian Baitslans and the deepening of cooperation.
According to the press service of the Senate, as part of the development of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two states, members of parliament together with the Embassy of Kazakhstan and the Parliament of Romania and the Institute of International Relations and Economic Cooperation within the framework of the Constitution of our country and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the role of parliament in democracy.
the law is aimed at improving state regulation in the field of health care, improving the health of the population and maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
According to the Mayor's Office of Semey, 17 projects for 448 017 000 tenge were implemented in the first direction of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program for the development of employment and public services through the development of infrastructure and housing construction.
it is planned that in the future not only the participants of the center, but also all residents of the capital will receive a high-quality, fast and inexpensive type of communication.
representatives of Aktobinsk Rail Beam Plant LLP met with representatives of the Ministry of Railways, Construction and Architecture of Turkmenistan.
special attention was paid to global security.
Bandamash presented new scientific justifications of the history of the Kazakh Khanate, "the press service of the academy said.
the media should bring these indicators to the country, "the head of state said.
he lives in the capital and studies in the 5th grade of the school of the Kazakh National University of Arts.
The Minister also noted that Kazakhstan is an attractive destination for Thai citizens.
the state annually builds preschool, children's, general education schools and universities, "said the deputy head of government.
they expressed confidence that under the leadership of the head of state the stability of independent Kazakhstan will continue, the growth of the economy will continue and the unwavering reputation of the state on the world stage will be strengthened.
in their letters, the authors thanked the head of state for his constant attention to issues of supporting veterans.	according to the press service of akorda , the authors expressed their gratitude to the head of the state for his constant attention to the issues of support of the veterans .	1,06
In addition, joint work is underway as part of a project to build a new airport and create a return terminal in Astana.	in addition , the sides are considering the implementation of the project of construction and reconstruction of a new terminal in the airport of astana .	1,06
The Prime Minister recalled that the economy of Kazakhstan is becoming more diversified thanks to a comprehensively considered investment policy.	the prime minister also reminded that kazakhstan 's economy thanks to investment policy is becoming more differentiated .	1,06
As a multinational state, we continue to tolerate national and interfaith harmony, "the head of state said.
During the meeting A. Batalov handed veterans a congratulatory letter and a New Year's gift on behalf of the president.
Already this year, 7 billion 981 million tenge were allocated from the state treasury for the construction of housing with a total area of ​ ​ about 36 thousand square meters, 241 families were provided with housing.
The head of the Kazakh delegation did not hide the fact that the countries participating in the Kazakhstan "Ashgabat agreement" have high hopes for the joint use of the international transport and transit corridor with Iran, the Sultanate of Oman, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.
The Peruvian side was informed about the existing socio-economic situation of Kazakhstan, the main directions of the message of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Bright Path - Way to the Future" were presented, the report said.
The project worth 7.4 billion tenge at the first stage will be implemented with the financial support of Kazagro JSC as part of the Kazagro national holding.
there is a demand for these products, for farmers it is profitable and its price - up to 1 million tenge.
Within the framework of 5 institutional reforms, which are now being implemented at the initiative of the head of state within the framework of the new road economic policy, we will continue to develop production and economic policies, "the minister said.
Measures are also being considered to resolve the conflict with Syria, Iran and Turkey, "said A. Nichkasov.
in particular, this happens in the area of ​ ​ the Artem shopping center.
On February 6, 2015, in the youth sports palace of Taldykorgan, a synchronous action "Beginning of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan" will be held.
in general, according to the company's management, a number of projects were implemented within the framework of the state program.
nothing can replace the power of the mother. in this case , nothing can replace the comprehensive strength of motherhood .
to ensure strict implementation of the principle of one window, entrepreneurs are provided by representatives of the regional chamber of the Kazagromarketing joint-stock company, public service centers, land relations departments, architecture and urban planning.
Almaty regional branch of the public association "Kazakhstan Organization of Veterans of Emergency Situations" presented 100,000 tenge as material assistance.
we have begun to implement a new economic policy "path to a bright future," Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
in the future, we will strengthen our professional skills, "the Kazakh servicemen noted.
Today, this system of per capita financing is carried out in 15 schools in Aktobe, including in the foothills, lynx, gates, mugalzhars, Shalkar districts, he added.
According to him, the elections were held as a holiday uniting all peoples.
Tokayev thanked the international observers from the Commonwealth of Independent States for the work done in the extraordinary presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in particular, the issues of improving measures in the field of construction and land management, connecting to the electricity system, simplifying measures for opening and closing enterprises, registering private and executive production, simplifying customs measures, taxation and bankruptcy were considered.
Participants of the event were familiarized with the Kazakh g-global initiative and the basic principles set out in the book.
Kazakhstan is Russia's most reliable and close partner. kazakhstan is the most reliable and closest friend of russia .
The next object in which the head of the region, Erik Sultanov, visited is Adele Bird LLP.
270 veterans arrive in the capital to participate in events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory. 270 war veterans will come to astana to take part in the festival .
investment subsidies are aimed at reimbursing a share of 20 to 80% of the costs of implementing an investment project.
On behalf of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, a special forces unit of the regional command "South" takes part in this exercise.
According to the director of the State University of Employment and Social Programs, in 2014 overhaul of 14 facilities of the Burabai district was carried out: 2 schools, the central city polyclinic, medical and social institutions.
One of the main advantages of the gala ballet tour program will be the performance of Spartak.
According to him, this is due to youth policy.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the state is making efforts to promote the employment of citizens.
In connection with the ruble exchange rate, a number of situations will have to be resolved, but the entire infrastructure is ready for beef exports, "said A. Mamytbekov.
copies of documents will tell about our country's contribution to the victory over fascism, about Kazakhstan's divisions and Kazakhstani heroes, about institutions and enterprises relocated to Kazakhstan, the vice minister said.
Recall that today in the capital, with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science and the joint-stock company Center for International Programs, a forum of young specialists "Educated Youth is the Future of an Eternal Country" was held.
In the first quarter of this year, one project was launched - Kudu Industries Kazakhstan LLP for the production of a full-fledged screw pumping system.
Participants of the seminar were informed about the current state of the Kazakh economy and opportunities for further development, new events and mechanisms for attracting foreign investment.
Discussing issues of cooperation in the CIS, Tokayev noted Kazakhstan's interest in further increasing the role and potential of the assembly: "Work in the CIS is a priority for the parliament of Kazakhstan, including the Senate.
The Azazet Sultan State Historical and Cultural Museum-Mound is the oldest partner of the first president of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, they discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, topical issues of the international agenda, interaction of Kazakhstan and ecu.
In particular, projects for the development of local self-government by solving social issues were implemented in two districts.
In general, last year about 900 families received housing.
for all types of crimes, including especially serious ones - on 18.2% (from 2629 to 2150), serious crimes - on 17.4% (from 33,836,27,941), crimes of moderate severity - on 2.8% (from 279 389 271 592), crimes of minor severity on 10% (from 43,990,39,608), - said in a statement.
bekiz tashimula, moldagal nakupula, rymbek tuleybay - three of my brothers. bekiz tashipuly , moldagali nakypuly and rymbek tuleybayuly - my three brothers .
Thanks to the driving of the crowd, we provided the villagers with high-speed Internet communication and interactive TV id phone and idtv, "said the technical director of the enterprise generously kasimanov.
It should be noted that in 2015 the company intends to allocate 133 billion tenge as support for industrial products.
this parade will be the fifth in order and the largest military parade for pupils of the Zhas Ulan school and other participants.
this will become the driver of the development of the economy in a difficult time for it.
Kazakh national melodies staged at the beginning of the evening were replaced by classical European works performed by the quartet of the national opera Estonia.
The Prime Minister also noted that Kazakhstan and Lithuania intend to become eidu members.
Following the meeting akim of the city bulat bakauov invited white team "Alumeniy Kazakhstan" to meet with representatives of the Korean country to protect the environment from pollution.
for those who want to work, all conditions have been created both in the city and in the village. kazakhstan has created all necessary conditions for those who are willing to work .
Director of Pobeda LLP in Shcherbakty district of Pavlodar region A.Polyakov noted that the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev was a fateful event for the future history of independent Kazakhstan.
According to the director of gsi, the first presidential election of 1991 became the point of the country's national history, a new stage of our statehood began when we experienced an emotional period.
Thus, the construction of the Western Europe-Western China highway with a length of 8,445 km was completed, of which 2,787 km were completed in Kazakhstan (China - 3,425 and Russia - 2,233 km).
Party leader Won Jobbik and deputy head of the party's parliamentary group M. Diondyoshi noted Kazakhstan's unprecedented progress in becoming the leader of the Central Asian region and an honorary member of the international community.
50 of them work around forestry, in other regions Aktobe LLP works.
not visiting post offices, he turns to the post near his house. "
these airlines do not include air carriers from Germany, Austria, Holland, the Czech Republic, Great Britain, who previously flew to Kazakhstan, "the report said.
according to him, it is necessary to get rid of legends that talk about the state program.
As noted, a distinctive feature of this symposium is that Kazakhstan includes representatives of the highest sergeant in three types of armed forces of Kazakhstan: command sergeant-major ronnie Kelly, chief sergeant of the ground forces of the central command (arc), chief foreman scott fleming, chief foreman of the 5th fleet (navcent) and chief command sergeant-master raymond colon lopez, chief command sergeant (afcent).
today I congratulate fellow countrymen, soldiers who fought with us, and those who are still around, on the day of the great victory, "the war veteran added.
these electric locomotives are operated throughout the republic, "says Yermak Jesus, head of the marketing and sales department of Electric Locomotive Plant LLP.
citizens apply mainly for housing. ust-kamenogorsk introduced the land rent for 4 years .
we are all witnesses to unstable external situations. all we are witnessing a difficult external situation .
we know what is happening in neighbouring countries. we know firsthand about what is happening in the neighboring countries .
we are a happy generation of winning fathers.
we also look forward to democratic and fair elections.
The presidential elections demonstrated to the world the wisdom of the Kazakhstani people.
you are the first generations living in the global world, you need to understand the order of development and growth of the country, "the head of state said.
The Government had addressed the concerns of more than 80 large enterprises in the country and had adopted a plan to support them by increasing local content. the government will consider the problematic issues of 80 major companies of our country , the action plan is adopted to support them by increasing local content , " sagintayev noted .
the main products of all factories are fish fillet, smoked, ice cream, frozen fish, fish flour.
the issue could not be resolved quickly, long-term work should be carried out. this issue cannot be resolved quickly .
Sarikulia noted the interest of the Thai government in expanding bilateral relations with Kazakhstan.	ch.sarikulia noted that the thai government is interested in expanding bilateral relations with kazakhstan .	1,07
On this topic, the Kazakh delegation presented the project "New transport system of Astana, consisting of three high-tech systems that complement and integrate light rail, bus rapid transportation and intelligent transport."
The first direction is the implementation of the released working and target groups within the framework of infrastructure projects and projects under the Nұrly zhol program, "said Mr. Karagusova.
Last year, state labor inspectors revealed that in 216 enterprises of the republic before 13.7 thousand employees there is wage arrears of more than 1.6 billion tenge, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan reported.
After school, I entered the Almaty Veterinary Institute. after school i went to almaty veterinary institute , my father was a veterinarian .
in the future we will build schools, hospitals, other social facilities, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
basically this is a joint-stock company "Welfare Fund" samruk-kazyna, "explained the Dalenov channel.
The head of the region awarded the Order of Merit to Georgy Gudkov, Konstantin Guslev, Salikh Sabilyanov, Grigory Severushenkov, Tleubaev, Anatoly Korotkov.
Letters related to the early election of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan continue to be received.
We pose a number of questions that take into account the attendance of guests, these are information points and parking lots, "said the deputy head of the NPP.
Nazarbayev noted that it is necessary to bring industrialization to the end, create a new second economy, create about a million jobs, increase the new quality of income and professionalism of people.
In our region, at present, the education and health sectors buy milk of unknown quality for a total amount of 1.5 billion tenge. in our region the education and health institutions buy dairy products totaling 1.5 billion tenge , the quality of which is unknown .
During the Sabyrgali war, Kusenovich defended the Mogilev city, fought on the western front, participated in battles aimed at liberating the settlements of Smolensk, Bryansk, Kalinin, Vitebsk regions, defended Moscow.
The participants of the round table recognized as a unique public institution the important role of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in ensuring political stability and respect for the interethnic agreement of the many thousands and multinational Kazakhstan community.
The meeting at the construction site of the exhibition complex was attended by heads of local and central government agencies, representatives of expo 2017, whites, baiterek, construction organizations, as well as regional producers.
the project includes 8 interchanges, more than 20 bridges and overpasses. the project includes eight interchanges , more than 20 bridges and overpasses .
the number of murders, causings heavy harm to health, robberies, robberies, extortion, hooliganisms was reduced significantly.
I would like to thank the organizers of this event, "said Ms. Solovyova.
partners exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
in addition, the Ashma Water Committee is negotiating to attract investment from international financial institutions such as the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
the model of interreligious harmony in Kazakhstan occupies a special place in the world. the kazakhstani model of interethnic tolerance takes a special niche in the world .
the meeting with each veteran ended with the song "katyusha" performed by young people.
all citizens should enjoy equal rights, bear the same responsibility and have the same opportunities to achieve certain issues, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
According to Chang Yunsok, thanks to the far-sighted policy of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has entered into dynamic development.
a modernized design with new capabilities and functionalities has been developed, the structure of the site has been changed. modernized design with new opportunities and functionality was developed ; the structure of the site was changed .
According to him, the elections were held on the principle of free, open and democratic elections.
k.jakupov also expressed confidence that the Netherlands Kingdom will support Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
Every year, 100 plots will be exhibited in the shareholder, "said Toktabaev.
Kazakhstan is not the world leader in energy efficiency. kazakhstan is not a leader in terms of energy efficiency .
the purchase of machinery, equipment, tools accounts for 40.2% of the regional investment volume, other capital work and costs - 2.1%.
four people from my family came to the polls, everyone makes their choice, "said Mayra Tokhaeva, a teacher at the Moscow Medical University.
the concept of the national pavilion proves that Kazakhstan is a state that does not stand still and is aimed at further development, "N. Nazarbayev said.
This year, in order to prepare for the flood from March 3, 8,561 people of the operational response department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 9 helicopters for 1,255 units of equipment and 211 units of watercraft were trained.
The message of the Head of State "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" aroused enthusiasm among students and teachers of the department "Oil and Gas and Engineering Technologies."
this is the "sypaga" program, focused on the development of horse breeding, the "kulan" program and the "altyn asyk" sheep breeding program.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the Minister about the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, which proposed to hold early presidential elections adopted by parliament.
The main thing is that we must solve the issue of financing, "the head of the region emphasized.
In the coming days, a national commission on modernization will be created under the President of Kazakhstan. national commission on the modernization for the president of the country will be created in the near future .
The Ministry conducted an analysis of corruption offences committed by employees of central and subordinate organizations in 2013-2014.
intend to further strengthen and develop relations between our fraternal countries in all areas, "the telegram says.
in particular, the President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on behalf of the Syrian people and on his own behalf on his victory in the presidential election.
I am sure that this forum will increase cooperation between the two countries and become the initiator of joint projects, "he said.
some buildings are used for exhibitions in which special exhibits from various museums around the world will be brought in.
one of the first in the CIS countries was the future program.
connect the capital with such leading financial centers as dubai, frankfurt, Hong Kong. we need to connect the capital with other leading financial centers like dubai , frankfurt , and hong kong .
As the head of state noted, the main segment of growth in the country's welfare should be small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. as the president noted , the main segment of country 's growth in prosperity should be small and medium businesses .
According to the Chairman of the Majilis, last year, within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum, the adoption of the concept of a world anti-crisis plan for UN member states gave a new impetus to development.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 spoke about the preparations for the international exhibition in the capital and the initiative of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev.
The government and each of its members will be responsible for the efficiency of work and control over the spending of funds, "the head of state said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that at the end of last year he instructed the government to develop scenarios for the development of events in various versions, the main task of which is not to reduce the growth rate of the economy and maintain basic social benefits.
Minister of National Economy e. Dossayev noted that when developing the three main scenarios, various options for the cost of a barrel of oil were considered.
this, of course, will help by joint decision, "said the director of the chamber in the capital.
In 2014, 2 residential buildings for 107 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 6.4 thousand square meters were commissioned.
There are 1,054 women per 1,000 men aged 36-40 years, 1,095 women for 41-45 years, and 68% more men aged 70 years.
this time it was.
In addition, akims of three districts of the capital paid tribute to veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
Work on the implementation of investment projects financed through the joint-stock company National Managing Holding Kazagro has intensified.
thus, our companies supported the maintenance of the tenge rate.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meeting the prospects and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Saudi relations were discussed.
Abdikalikova also held meetings with the Director General of the French educational agency Campus France. Grassen, President of the Paris Sorbonne Site University Association. and a public figure, m.halter, the initiator of the creation of the Sorbonne-Kazakhstan University.
The deputy of the Bundestag noted the active and reliable political dialogue between the two countries and the good potential of Kazakh-German economic cooperation.
In addition, it will not require additional financial costs from the republican budget and will not have a negative impact in socio-economic terms, "said the Minister of National Economy of the Dossayev.
Domestic consumption of AI-92 gasoline amounted to 2.9 million tons, diesel fuel - 4.9 million tons.
On the eve of the XXII session of the KHA, an expanded meeting of the assembly council was held with the participation of the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan gulshara abdykalikova, during which a number of topical issues related to kha were considered.
this means that every Kazakh family has entrusted its fate to the Nazarbayev.
Thus, a 1-room apartment for 25 square meters. m in Shymkent will cost 20-22 thousand tenge per month.	so , a studio apartment in shymkent city with the total area of 25 square meters will cost about 20-22 thousand tenge per month .	1,07
I am glad that each of us is worried about our country, "said V. Guminsky.
we give peace to the world through the consolidation of peace within the country.
we would like to contribute to the elections, because we are patriots of our homeland, "said A. Gradvol.
According to the Ministry, the delegation of Kazakhstan was headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Asar Musinov, and the delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China - Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Chen Goping.
we must clearly and adequately fulfil the obligations of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to ensure employment. we are to be committed to fulfillment of instructions set be president nursultan nazarbayev on employment .
According to Kabibullah Dzhakupov, the Kazakh-Dutch business council will stimulate trade, economic and technological interaction.
d.gribauskaite invited the President of Kazakhstan to visit Lithuania and expressed confidence that the visit will create conditions for a comprehensive discussion of new opportunities for further strengthening cooperation between our countries at the bilateral level and within the framework of relations with the European Union.
As the deputy of the Majilis in the second direction noted, entrepreneurship in the countryside is being transformed into the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
your sons will forever be preserved in our memory as a valiant officer and a real commander who showed an example of service in his homeland and military service, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
Kazakhstan is an active participant in these negotiations.
in the historical dimension, in the shortest possible time, President A.D. under the leadership of Nazarbayev managed to create a modern state. a successful modern state was built under the leadership of president nursultan nazarbayev for a short historical period .
Kazakhstan is considered a member of the customs union and eeo. kazakhstan is a member of the customs union , the eeu .
this, of course, is not news, because the policy of the head of state is aimed at improving the well-being of the Kazakhstani people, "he added.
In his opinion, the creation of a system of economic cooperation between the EU and the eo is as important as the creation of a common economic space from Lisbon to Vladivostok.
also updated the methodology for calculating macroeconomic indicators, which determines the stability of the economic development of the member countries of the customs union (ts) and the single economic space (back).
In general, manufacturers intend to sell their products in all regions of the country.
to date, 7 out of 43 different transport models located on the sites of "agromashholding" and "saryarkaavprom" are considered brands.
According to the press service of the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, the purpose of motorsport is to promote cars and other domestic goods produced at Kazakhstani enterprises, such as kia, chevrolet and skoda.
During the event, participants discussed such issues as the Kazakh Khanate and Turkestan, the city and steppe in the history of Kazakhstan, ancient and medieval states in Kazakhstan, Kazakh statehood and personal factor, data and studies of the history of the Kazakh Khanate, national pantheons in the Kazakh steppe and science-education in the Kazakh steppe.
WWII veterans set up a new alley in the central park of Kapchagai.
I wish all Kazakhstanis happiness, success, health, well-being of all Kazakhstanis, Astana, "the veteran said.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the construction of this housing was started in November with the financing of the Samruk-kazyna real estate fund.
The President of Slovenia commended the bilateral trade and economic cooperation and noted the significant potential in its development.
we must educate young talents on our stage, "said a.myrsakhmet.
According to the acting Director of the Department of Energy and Environment, the steam development program in Kazakhstan is aimed at holding training seminars and round tables in the regions.
At the concert, the deputy chief of the general staff - the head of the department for educational and ideological work of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel Mukhamedzhan Talas will hold a solemn meeting with veterans of the Great Patriotic War, cadets of military educational institutions, military personnel of the garrison, as well as students of Almaty.
there are classes in obstetrics and gynecology, surgery and therapy, nursing.
To increase the volume of housing construction, it is necessary to build engineering networks of heating, water supply, gas supply, sewage, "the mayor said. the increase in housing construction entails the necessity of construction of new engineering networks of heat , water , gas , electricity and sewerage .
to achieve these goals, the efforts of both the state and civil society must be united in a single channel, "said Lytusipova.
In particular, about 5,000 military personnel, about 200 weapons and military equipment, 70 military aircraft and helicopters took part in the parade.
As the deputy noted, he proudly represented the interests of Kazakhstan.
- At the beginning of the Great Patriotic War 25 formations of the Red Army were formed on the territory of Kazakhstan.
so, among owners of "Olympic student of Rio-2016" boxers ivan dychko, daniyar eleusins, strong abdrakhmans, adilbek niyazymbet, zhanibek alimkhanovich, sick ilyin, zulfia chinshanlo, maya maneza, wrestlers by Greco-Roman technique lmat kebispayev and nurmakhan tynaliyev head of the national team "free citizen of youth," manate manateli, "manatelist," manal manatelist.
we need to modernize, work on new projects and achieve growth.
these programs will help us achieve our goals, "he said.
As the head of the region noted, one of them is the Business Roadmap 2020.
According to him, recent events in the modern world prove that Kazakhstan has always been on the right path.
earlier, the head of the region visited the Zhualynsky district, where he got acquainted with the work of the Koxai reservoir and ring canal.
this day will enter the modern history of Kazakhstan.
Thailand's investment agency has identified new priorities for Thai investment. thailand 's investment agency has identified new priorities for thai investment .
The national holding Kazagro is the main operator for financing investment projects in agriculture.
high-quality transport infrastructure is needed to exploit this potential.
Imports from the Republic of Belarus in January-December 2014 amounted to 136341.6 thousand US dollars, an increase of 96% compared to January-December last year.
In this regard, in order to ensure the activities of amendments made and introduced into the current code, the bill provides for their transfer to the new code, "the statement said.
The Central Election Commission is currently checking the conformity of these citizens with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the law on "elections."
The event is attended by the leadership of the region, kha members in West Kazakhstan region, representatives of ethnocultural associations, emb creative teams in West Kazakhstan region, students of universities, colleges, veterans and representatives of political parties, etc.
In total, 14 thousand 790 people were evacuated in the region, and over the past day - 854 people, "said the head of the department.
These are students from secondary and higher educational institutions of the city of Kokshetau, borough, bulan, workers, ishil, celinograd, arshals.
The first office for primary health care (msak) was opened in the country by decision of the executive director and with the support of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that in 2015 it is planned to launch 12 investment projects totaling 15.5 billion tenge, which will create 720 jobs.
Noting the special role of Kazakhstan in ensuring global security, the UN Secretary General highly appreciated the contribution of the President of Kazakhstan. in the processes of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
Consider the relevance of the issues raised to the topics discussed at the Astana Economic Forum and work on its specific specialization.
concessional financing will be received by enterprises of the chemical and metallurgical industry, the production of food, drinks, clothing, paper products, furniture, coke and processed petroleum products, basic pharmaceutical products and medicines, etc. (a total of 23 industries).
this will give reason for the introduction of a new element, this is training at the workplace, that is, the student will spend more than 160 hours a year at the workplace, "he continued.
I would like to say that Kazakhstan has become a striking example of the holding of elections and the electoral system on its territory, and we were pleased. the last point i want to bring , kazakhstan is an example of the elections and the entire electoral system , and we are very glad , " - he said .
The draft methodology was developed by interested parties, representatives of government agencies, "he said.
This year, as it grows, the event annually unites representatives of skiing.
During the event, the head of the information and expert industry gave a lecture on the main directions of the message "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
In addition, the military council specified the directions for the further development of the ground forces, funds for large-scale exercises, mobilization forces and deadlines, and the procedure for preparing groups of ground forces participating in the military parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
The Eurasian Economic Union was created primarily for ordinary people and their interests. the eurasian economic union was created primarily for the ordinary people .
the second - approval of a draft project (design project) - up to 20 days, the third - the permission itself - within 10 days.
The amount of subsidies on approved applications amounted to 25.3 billion tenge.
this would meet the demand for the company's products in Kazakhstan, CIS and central Asia.
this type of services is provided for the following services: dgps service - providing "meter" accuracy of real time, rtk service - providing "centimeter" accuracy of real time, rr - providing "centimeter" and "millimeter" accuracy in post-processing mode.
Each of the 5115 war veterans living in the republic, akims of regions, cities and districts will be specially congratulated and presented with a set of New Year's gifts on behalf of the head of state.
among them are pediatricians, cardiologists, dentists, surgeons and other specialists.
During these forums, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan informed representatives of the German business community about the main situation of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" and measures to support and protect foreign investors on investment opportunities within the framework of the international exhibition expo-2017.
During the meeting, it was noted that all the necessary projects were prepared, some are in high readiness, and also agreed.
with a new design, you can use any mobile device, web pages can adapt to various formats and any screen diagnosis (smartphone, tablet, laptop, etc.).
A special place during the meeting was taken by the role of future generations in the process of socio-economic and spiritual transformation of our country from the point of view of the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country" prepared by the head of state.
The Serbian side thanked for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan as an interim member of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 and agreed on Serbia's participation in expo 2017.
During a working trip to South Kazakhstan region, the head of state got acquainted with the work of the largest greenhouse complex for vegetable production in the republic.
10-15 people - employees of the administrative block.
all projects were approved at a board meeting.
another project is a special device that automates the operation of pharmacies.
100 archaeological and ethnographic artifacts were presented to the attention of the breadwinners, of which 60 were lamps, the oldest of which were 2 thousand years ago, the oldest in the 19th century.
artists, athletes, representatives of the state prosecutor's office of Dagestan, Tatarstan and Chechens, Ossetians and barcourts, Azerbaijan came to rehabilitation.
As of March 1, 2015, the population was 737,884 people, including the urban population - 348,181 people, rural - 389,703 people.
50.3% of the unemployed will be employed, 12.7% - low-income workers, "the vice minister said.
I believe that this is a great opportunity for local entrepreneurs, "said the investor.
our employees are trained in all practical areas of operations. our employees are trained in the organizing committee in all areas : tickets , the event , the logistics activities , the protocol service .
in the southern region of South Kazakhstan State University named after M. Auezov prepares specialists for chemical, light industry and hunting.
According to the regional Governor's Office, issues of bilateral cooperation and attracting investments to Kostanay region were discussed during the meeting.
The event was organized by the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the Zhambyl Regional Territorial Election Commission.
in general, Kazakhstanis have a good mood, "said the director of the Institute of Sociological Research.
M. Araban expressed interest in strengthening and strengthening bilateral ties between the business community of Kazakhstan and Romania. m. daraban expressed his interest in strengthening and enhancing bilateral contacts between the business circles of kazakhstan and romania .
in recent years, a feed mill, a dairy farm, a horse farm, as well as new technical devices in meat and milk production workshops have been installed.
at the end of the competition, the head of the kasotc training center noted that the brigadier general S. al-Zaben expanded his space from year to year, and training in character is equal to a combat situation.
there is an increase in other sectors, including in the field of non-ferrous bronze and Alumenian raw materials, zinc, "he said.
these are additional revenues to our economy, incomes of domestic producers, "said the Vice Minister.
K. Sarybay stressed Kazakhstan's interest in expanding investments between the two countries and the importance of the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in Astana, which is an effective platform for the participation of Slovenian companies.
According to the Minister, the key topics of the exhibition are the directions that determine the historical and geopolitical role of Kazakhstan in the world.
Together with the European Bank for Reconstruction, 8 projects worth 60 billion tenge are being implemented in the region.
during the Great Patriotic War he served as a signalman on the Vyatka, second Baltic fronts.
Freight turnover by rail between the countries participating in the Ashgabat agreement in 2014 increased by 2.3 million tons compared to 2013 and increased by 10%.
on the basis of this international act, Kazakh and American law enforcement agencies can legally and promptly cooperate in countering crime, ensuring law and order, as well as in protecting the legitimate interests and rights of citizens.
the population should be the main link in public control over the activities of state bodies, "said the head of the city.
According to the Senate, parliamentarians and experts will discuss bills "on electronic government," "on information cross-border handling of electronic documents," "interstate turnover of special communications."
free consultations on business implementation and documents, "the statement said.
During the meeting, the ministers noted the importance of bilateral cooperation on the operation of the Baikonur cosmodrome and discussed preparations for the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Baikonur on June 2 this year.
Within the framework of the memorandum, kazatomprom "uak" has all social facilities on its balance sheet - 2 medical and sanitary departments with stationary 40 and 30 beds in taucent and rubella villages, 2 kindergartens for 160 and 280 seats, 2 cultural and sports centers, 2 hotels, branch offices, a yard and taucent energy service LLP are transferred to the communal property of the South Kazakhstan region.
no woman who can work and be able to work should be left without work!
Recall, on March 25, the Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan completed the registration of presidential candidates.
we are ready to rally around you in turn, "the letter says.
As part of the order of the head of state, the regional development program was revised and appropriate changes were made, "said Sagintayev.
Kazakhstan and Iran are friendly states with common historical and cultural ties. kazakhstan and iran are friendly countries with a common history and culture .
The main areas that we are engaged in are the industry of small and medium-sized service companies. the key direction in which we are engaged poorly is a sphere of services of small , medium-sized companies .
restored electricity in the southern, northern, jubilee and coke and Abai regions of the Karaganda region. electricity supply was resumed in severnoe , yuzhnoe , yubileynoe and koksu villages of abay district , karaganda region .
for example, the construction of a transport highway with a growing capital will contribute to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, to date, 1000 jobs have been created.
Guaranteed transfers from the National Fund are projected in the amount of 1,702 billion tenge, "the committee noted.
The mission of the academy is to train qualified specialists and train highly qualified personnel for public administration based on world experience, "he said.
all these programs have a positive impact on the economy of the region and ensure its sustainable growth.
it would be very beneficial to negotiate between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union.
As noted in the report, the training project is intended for unemployed youth, young and start-up entrepreneurs.
He noted that Kazakhstan was the main partner and expressed readiness to actively develop cooperation in all areas, including electoral issues.
Over 5 years, 400 new types of products not previously produced in Kazakhstan have been mastered.
these measures will subsequently be introduced at all control and audit points of the Kazakh-Russian sheker, "the press release of Passenger Transportation JSC said.
On the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory, an alley of heroes will open. alley of heroes will be erected on the 70th anniversary of the great victory .
dynamic experience of mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan law enforcement agencies, which is currently reaching a qualitatively new level.
i. adyrbekov informed the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the President of Kazakhstan N.A. President of the Lithuanian Republic Nazarbayev. In 2016, Grybauskaite presented a letter in support of the proposal of Kazakhstan in the elections to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
Also, Lebanese viewers were told about the upcoming June 10-11 this year. V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions in Astana, the international exhibition "Expo-2017" on the theme "energy of the future."
As the politician noted, today in Kazakhstan it is possible to observe the level of development of democracy and economy.
As part of the training program, they studied the features of tactical, combat and fire training, took part in practical exercises at the Aisha Bibi training ground of the South regional command.
of which 77.2% was fulfilled at the expense of budget funds, 11.5% - at the expense of the population, 11.3% - at the expense of enterprises.
In 2014, kindergartens with 280 places each in the settlements of the worker, kokarna, and the Nursultan's microdistrict were put into operation.
The main purpose of the business trips of the Slovak delegation of entrepreneurs is to study the market of Kazakhstan, establish contacts with potential partners and open new areas of cooperation.
The event was attended by famous applicants, scientists, public figures, teachers and students of educational institutions of Astana.
the structures of scientific grants and programs are reoriented as necessary by the state program of industrial and innovative development.
He also noted that within the framework of "nұrly zhol," a path will be paved from Kazakh material.
I really liked the exhibition, I got a good impression from it. we like the fair , it is impressive .
The party is covered by all necessary resources, and also has many propagandists and observers in all regions of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan will play the role of a free economic zone in the Eurasian Union, attracting foreign investment and supporting business.
Your rich experience and knowledge in Central Asia will be useful in your further responsible work, "said K. Tokayev.
I noticed that you have long lines, and the elections are held on a day off, "said the American observer.
n.nazarbayev is a very competent ideologist. nazarbayev is a very competent ideologist .
for them, the main thing is harmony.
During the meeting, the bank's operational activities were discussed, including the activities of the EBRD in the Central Asian region, the results achieved and the prospects for further cooperation.
The grace period will be 2 years, which will allow the entrepreneur to confidently get on his feet, "said the official representative of Kazagrofinance JSC Furhad Mirkarimov.
As noted by R. Erdogan, some regional and global events have influenced trade relations between Turkey and Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister, paying attention to the importance of further development of Kazakh-European cooperation, expressed gratitude to the development of trade and investment cooperation with the European Union, which is the largest trade, economic and investment partner of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, as the head of the National Bank noted, in February last year the population conducted testing of second-level banks.
a photo exhibition is organized on the corner of Kazakh culture, which presents images of cultural and historical, archaeological sites, traditions of the Kazakh people, photographs of the modern architecture of the capital and Almaty Olympic objects, as well as books about Kazakhstan and exhibitions of national clothing.
According to the minister, flights to Seoul are opening, and within 2-3 years other flights will be opened to such destinations as Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, New York, Tokyo.
The program was attended by economic entities of all regions of the country and the city of Astana.
upon agreement of thyssenkrupp provides services of engineering, manufacture and delivery of equipment, supervision, training of employees implementing the project.
A hospital, a military editorial office, a field canteen were built on the square, where participants prepared a soldier's porridge.
The frequency of labor storage in 2011 amounted to 13.2 thousand people, as of January 1, 2014 - 172.7 thousand. "
during the implementation of the national cultural heritage project, collections of monuments of all areas were published, with the exception of irgiz, shalkar areas.
The meeting was attended by senators of the Murat Baktiyarovich, Bahyt Shelpekov and deputy of the Majilis Askhat Beken.
During the fair, students talked with employers, requested their demands, conditions of pay, and previously agreed on employment.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the event is to strengthen the unity and friendship of the people of Kazakhstan, based on stability, peace and harmony.
to solve this problem, it is planned to begin the construction of three kindergartens in the capital and complete the construction of 11 preschool organizations, "he said.
the organizers are the regional council of veterans and the department of physical culture and sports.
He also expressed gratitude for the high level of economic cooperation between the two countries, stressing the need and importance of actively developing bilateral cultural ties.
there are concrete and serious steps that should help us, "he added.
this direction is lagging behind us compared to other countries.
In October last year, Norway withdrew its statement.
During the meeting, the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the election of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was considered.
In 2014, 69 educational facilities were overhauled for a total of 2532.9 million tenge.
Special attention was paid to the prospects of development within the framework of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
prospects of expansion of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Liechtenstein and inter-parliamentary cooperation.
my Kazakhstani train traveled 12 thousand km and visited 27 local points.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program alone, about 8 thousand jobs were saved in the capital and more than 4 thousand people were additionally provided with work.
As noted in ktc, the logistics solution "rail-air" provides for unloading a container train at the friendship station with rolling stock along the Chongqing (China) - Duisburg (Europe) route and sending goods through the Almaty station.
accordingly, efforts to improve the quality of public services should be carried out on an ongoing basis.
Therefore, all departments need to provide all types of financial instruments for the implementation of their projects, "the akim said.
Kazakhstan achieved 5 millennium development goals, the maternal mortality rate per 1,000 children in 1999 fell to 12.6 in 2013. kazakhstan has achieved the fifth aim of the millennium development , having reduced the maternal mortality rate by three times from 55 per 1,000 live births in 1999 to 12.6 in 2013 .
According to the press service of Akorda, during the meeting the issues of monitoring the implementation of the tasks of the enlarged government meeting were discussed.
Currently, the issue of creating industrial zones for organizing the production of small and medium-sized businesses is being worked out, the deputy said.
This investment project was agreed with the public board of directors in February of this year.
Moreover, early recognition of diseases allows you to be cured, "the expert noted.
Based on this, nominal income in 2015 year is projected in the amount of 41,307,6 billion tenge, which is 2,413,7 billion tenge lower than in November, with an increase to 59,869,9 billion tenge by 2019 year, "the report said.
According to the president of Zhetysu airline Kalmukhamed Donsebayev, new aircraft will be launched in June this year.
International cooperation is strengthened through joint exercises ("steppe eagle 2014," "relations," "peace mission," "regional cooperation" and others).
The forum participants discussed the situation against the backdrop of the actions of international terrorist and extremist organizations in the near and middle east, in the countries of central Asia in the context of the crisis in Syria, Iraqi lands and Ukraine.
our country is Kazakhstan. we have one homeland .
this work was not unsuccessful.
our people have made an invaluable contribution to the great victory in the most severe war in the history of mankind.
today the state supports the auto industry.
As noted by Kelimbetov, the National Bank controls what changes take place in the domestic and foreign markets within 3-9 months.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the project cost amounted to 120.0 million tenge.
on behalf of the military personnel of the entire regional command "south" were presented with gifts.
all this is done for you.
Thus, 388,423 thousand tenge were allocated to the construction department of the city of stepnogorsk to burn the water supply system of the bestobe village.
In addition, an outpatient clinic for 103.7 million tenge will be built at the expense of the local budget in the village of Trekino.
our city became beautiful, and our villages were devastated.
a total of 6.2 billion tenge was allocated for gas supply facilities.
I want to congratulate you, despite all the difficulties, to hold elections to the parliament and form a government. i would like to congratulate you on the fact that , despite all the difficulties , you were able to hold the elections to the parliament and form a government .
So, members of the Kazakhstan weightlifting federation, Olympic champions, etc., z.chinshanlo, m.maneza, and so on noted that the victories of Kazakhstan's sports in the international arena are the fruit of economic stability and inter-ethnic harmony in the country.
The technical part that makes up the parade is divided into two: historical and modern, "said the deputy commander of the ground forces of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan asylbek satybaldins.
As you know, the national competition is organized by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the Ministry of Energy and the Federation of Trade Unions.
The action "Train" My Kazakhstan, "dedicated to the Year of the People of Kazakhstan, will give a new impetus to the holding of events on such dates as the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of the Great Patriotic War, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution.
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
According to the employment center of Astana, in January-April, 1664 residents were employed under the state program.
In 2013-2014, 500-600 cases were considered under such an article, and already in 3 months of this year there are more than 500 such cases, "said N. Razzak.
The Secretary of State stressed that Kazakhstan attaches particular importance to cooperation with this international organization and takes an active part in the main activities of the Howe every year.
The principles of the tripartite nature of the youth organization are successfully implemented in the republic: a unique industry program, a monitoring and evaluation system and a unique coordinating mechanism.
at the same time, it should be noted that in 2010-2014 (1st five-year plan) all obligations on the image were fully fulfilled.
The absolute support of the population following the election results gives Kazakhstan an unprecedented mandate to implement the tasks set by me, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
according to our calculations, he will regulate new investment flows in the gas effect, "said A. Magauov.
The Minister highly appreciated the bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany. He noted that the visit of Steinmeier to Kazakhstan at the end of last year was fruitful.
at the initiative of entrepreneurs in the region, the "Association of Entrepreneurs in the Field of Service and Services" was created.
in my opinion, Kazakhstan is a country that provides great opportunities for young people. i believe that today kazakhstan is a country of great opportunities for young people .
I think that this competition will make it possible to present the capital not only as a political economic center, but also as a cultural center, "said the deputy head of the culture department of Astana Mayor's Office Narima Mukhambetalin.
summing up the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee and Adyrbekov noted that the pace of implementation of the Law "On the State Border of the Republic of Kazakhstan" cannot be exhausted, moreover, topical issues should be resolved as much as possible.
They will perform on May 1 at a gala concert in the park of the first president of the country dedicated to the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan.
We won all the serious competitions in Europe and got a good reputation, "said the general manager of the cycling team.
10,640 jobs were created last year; 14,425 people were employed, of which 7,314 were under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program.
from. Rabbani noted that he considers our state as an important partner and a friendly and fraternal country in Central Asia.	mr. rabbani regards kazakhstan as a friendly and brotherly nation and important partner in central asia .	1,08
In total, 76.8 billion tenge was spent in the region and 71 projects with 6,699 jobs were implemented, the head of the region said.
the rate of basic population health indicators decreased by 24.3% over three years, mortality from cancer - by 25.5%, mortality from diseases of the cardiovascular system decreased by 36.8%, from tuberculosis - by 47.5%.
about 6 million tons of bread and more than 730 tons of meat products were shipped to the needs of the front, "said K. Tokayev.
This suggests that all great peoples live in peace and unity, "he said.
these upgrades are very relevant, therefore, the mandate of trust provided by the population is very important for their implementation, "the head of state said.
today nuclear diagnostics is one of the main areas of modern medicine. today , the nuclear diagnosis is one of the pillars of modern medicine .
The Department of Internal Affairs celebrated the state holidays of the Republic of Kazakhstan with sporting events with the participation of management, personnel and veterans, the report said.
The main result of last year was the completion of bilateral negotiations with the European Union on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
two stages are over, the third is a very important stage, a period of advocacy.
this is the first step in the history of strengthening trade and economic ties of our union.
in this regard, it should be noted that in the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development, the Zhambyl region should become the center of the national chemical industry, "he said.
there is a national interactive park for children and youth for the development of creative and scientific and educational potential of young Kazakhstanis, a large complex of interactive stands and exhibits in all areas of science, technology, sports and art is presented.
Tokayev noted that cooperation and parity are a priority area of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and the importance of celebrating the 70th anniversary of this unique and unopposed organization.
you have glorious stories, the country is developing steadily.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the opening of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan! congratulate all kazakhstani people on the beginning of the year of the assembly .
they highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, and also noted that President N. noted the great work of Nazarbayev.
for example, since the launch of the site kaharman.kz it has included 20 thousand users.
Within 92 days, the military symbol will be held in 25 cities of Kazakhstan, on May 7, a military parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of Defender of the Fatherland will be held in the capital.
He noted that the "ray road," on the one hand, is equipped with an anti-crisis direction, on the other, it will lay the foundation for the long-term development of the economy.
The large 100-meter ball is the main pavilion of Kazakhstan. the big hundred-meter ball is the main pavilion of kazakhstan - will be dedicated to this .
As promising areas of cooperation, the parties noted the development of high technologies and the promotion of projects in the oil and gas, agricultural sectors, pharmaceuticals, tourism, construction, the nuclear and automotive industries, transport, innovations.
But for some time Kazakhstan has become a powerful state, "said M. Zholdasbekov
Through collaboration with the Unisef and within the framework of the country programme for 2010-2015, activities have been successfully implemented to strengthen the capacity of the family and society, develop social and managerial policies, and improve the social protection system.
To increase the transit potential, the efficiency of the transportation process, reduce the length of freight through the Almat-noise section, construction of a second lane began in April this year, "said R. Sklar.
participants took the initiative to create a public association "Association of Kazakh-Egyptian Friendship," providing for the strengthening and further development of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Egypt.
During the meeting, representatives of the member states of the dialogue discussed topical issues on the international agenda, including various aspects of countering international terrorism, religious extremism, drug trafficking, as well as issues of strengthening control over state borders.
most of the investment investments (83.2%) were made at the expense of the enterprises' own funds, the rest (16.8%) is accounted for by bank loans and other borrowed funds.
the Ural plant "zenith" noted that over the years of independence it was possible to successfully reform the country's economy thanks to the correct strategic decision of the President of Kazakhstan and his ability to place responsibility for their implementation.
we did not forget that the day when we were left without work, and women entrepreneurs, consisting of former teachers, doctors and designers and representatives of intellectual labor, became a new category, "said R. Sarsembayev.
carpet production using Belgian technology in South Asia.
Finnish readers were presented with books and photo albums about Kazakhstan, English-language books of the head of state's message "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" and other image materials.
The city commission of the national contest "Jubilee Family" determined the winners from 6 families.
It is noted that 13.2 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget, 3.8 billion tenge - from the local budget.
A member of the bureau of the political council of the party noted that the past elections are very important for our country, and the votes of voters for continuing the course of leader Nursultan Nazarbayev express high confidence in the people of Kazakhstan.
To the attention of those who did not know about this history, Kazakhstan has not been a multinational state for a long time. it is a note for those who do not know history , who think that kazakhstan is so multinational eternally .
there was no concept of social partnership in the previous law.
then they met with the university, students, delegates who arrived to participate in the World Economic Forum of Youth of the CIS countries.
More than 34 thousand acts of prosecutor's supervision were applied, 51,257 employees were brought to various liability, 71,025 million tenge of expenses were collected in the state's income.
there is everything necessary for the development and education of children, "said Akhmetzhanov.
I sincerely observe the monitoring and progress of elections. i am pleased to participate in monitoring and observing the elections .
The Turkic Academy plays an important role in studying the rich spiritual and cultural heritage of the Turkic world, in particular Kazakh statehood, the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
the school staff was highly responsible for preparation and testing, "the press service said.
as part of these activities, in the Karaganda garrison in military units belonging to the regional command "capital," the knowledge and implementation of anti-corruption legislation by military personnel was checked.
cadets of the military institute of the Armed Forces were shown the artifacts found: cast-iron helmets, German helmets, psh assault rifles, schmausers and other objects.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of further strengthening the inter-parliamentary dialogue between the two countries.
I have been watching the elections since the independence of Kazakhstan. i observe the elections at the outset of independent kazakhstan .
an exhibition of weapons (firearms), books and magazines was also held in the lobby of the Palace of Culture.
After the Expo, pavilions will be used, villages will be used as housing, we will try to create a financial center in the region, all institutions are convenient for this, "the head of state said.
sergeants are mastering new models of military equipment and armed forces.
According to Aliya Ibraeva's business vein, what is needed first of all for beginners.
Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, having put his right hand on the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, vowed to honestly serve the people.
Recall that investment subsidies for the first time in the country this year were implemented as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program.
when the state apparatus without violations begins to correctly comply with the requirements of the law, citizens will begin to treat the law correctly. when the state apparatus starts to implement the law properly , without breaking the rules , then the citizens will respect the law .
It is worth noting that the introduction of new electronic services will save time and will allow tracking budget funds.
According to the National Fund, on behalf of the Head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan together with JSC Samruk-kazyna developed a comprehensive privatization project for 2014-2016.
Thus, the capacity of the rehabilitation seaport increased from 18 to 21 million tons.
I think that by the end of the week we will begin to issue the first loans, "he continued.
Kazakh rescuers and teams of other countries at the seminar-meeting worked out exercises carried out in mountain ranges. rescuers from kazakhstan and the other countries practiced new skills of carrying out rescue operations in the mountain-steppe conditions .
currently, Ktj and Ak have begun implementing projects to create a Eurasian land transport system to ensure the global infrastructure integration of Kazakhstan.
According to the regional department of domestic policy, the Diamond Bird poultry farm was launched in December last year.
The meeting was attended by Deputy Chairman of the National Commission, Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Elena Tarasenko.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov also discussed the preparation of the upcoming official visit of the President of Turkmenistan to Kazakhstan.
we want foreign people to talk about these holidays. "
today this issue is being resolved.
The deputy of the Majilis noted that the state does not renounce its social obligations.
by taking this step, we will approach the fulfillment of the tasks set by the head of state, the further development of the social sphere of the economy, "he continued.
The head of the secretariat of the Central Ethics Commission under the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Sarymsakova Bahyt and an employee of Nazarbayev University Charles Gilman proposed the experience of creating and working a bioethical commission in Kazakhstan.
among them are 25744 in Aktau, 32363 in the capital, an honorary guard company no older than 27943 km, as well as the best special forces platoons of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and military personnel of the naval forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In turn, the Slovak diplomat noted Kazakhstan's contribution to solving regional and global problems, especially in ensuring peace and security, humanism and sustainable development.
During the conversation, the issues of organizing the upcoming political consultations between the leadership of the Foreign Ministry of the two countries, the next 7th meeting of the Kazakh-Afghan joint intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation and the visit of Afghan President M. A. Ghani to the country were discussed.
the current law is the result of many years of work of the President of Kazakhstan.
we are confident that these tasks will allow us to see our country at high altitudes, "said A. Musakozhaev.
According to him, in January-February 2015, the birth rate was 63.5 thousand people.
among them there are many professions such as economics, finance, law.
they arranged a flash mob in the form of "eight digits" on command.
70-80 children per day are born in the capital.
The Kazakh electrolysis plant, expressing gratitude for the support and care provided by white workers, connects all its achievements with the name of the head of state.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed to develop close ties aimed at strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey in the military sphere.
this concept of airport development is used for the first time in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
every family feels the care of the state.
it is designed for the next decade, there is a lot of work, especially since the heating of objects will be easy, but all this will depend on the progress of work, "he said. nurshanov.
equipment delivered from Sweden, Italy, Russia and China.
this will make south-north and east-west transportation effective up to 1000 km, "he said.
The holding of early presidential elections was initiated by the Council of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and supported by deputies of both houses of parliament and the national coalition of democratic forces "Kazakhstan-2050," uniting 6 political parties, 18 republican public associations, 500 regional non-governmental organizations.
The volume of investments in housing construction in January-December 2014 amounted to 138700.1 million tenge, which is 134.5% compared to the level of 2013.	investments in the housing construction amounted to 138 700.1 million tenge in january-december 2014 .	1,09
Nobel laureates to meet with the head of state are f. E. Kidland, E. Maskin, J. Smut, i.e. Pocket, as well as French economist, Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization in the city of	the meeting with the head of state was attended by the nobel prize f.-e.kidland , ye.maskin , dzh.smut , t.karman and french economist zh.attali , ceo of the food and agriculture organization of the united nations jean-g.da silva , undp administrator helen clark , head of the directorate for external relations of the oecd m.bonturi , ebrd 's vice president b.nelson , vice president and director of adb ch.venchay and director of the mckinseyglobalinstitute r.dobbs.	1,09
At the beginning of 2014, 93 or 24.5% of the 380 settlements of the region were gasified, 632.3 thousand people or 80% of the total population of the region were gasified.	at the beginning of 2014 , 93 settlements or 24.5 % of 380 were supplied with gas , the gas supply services covered 632.3 thousand people , or 80 % of the total population of the region ,  the message reads .
Programs and projects aimed at expanding the sectoral and integration model of medical and social services are being implemented together with the Unisef organization, and socially significant activities are being carried out.
The main directions of social policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan - updating of social legislation, formation of effective relations, development of socio-cultural modernization, search of effective way of government, - said L.Nurkatova.
In this regard, the party should respond to the explanatory work of the population, relying on primary organizations, "said the head of state.
Expressing appreciation for the established level of cooperation between the competent authorities of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria in matters of combating crime, ensuring law and order, the parties expressed their readiness to comprehensively expand and develop bilateral cooperation to strengthen the interests of the people of the two countries, stability and international security.
The Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, interested State bodies, local executive bodies and the State Commission have created all the optimal conditions for passing the qualification examination (UNT nb).
the new programme covers 4 phases.
polling stations throughout the country have already begun voting. at the moment all voting polling stations located throughout the country have started their work .
to finance the distribution of food products, the ministry plans to make the necessary changes to the state program of industrial and innovative development.
in particular, through loans for the center-south project, a section to the karaganda and jacket will be carried out.
Member of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan Okhlopkova, as well as adviser to the Chairman of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine.
The participation of the EAEU was considered through the national labor market, "he said.
a pilot project for the development of rural and youth innovative entrepreneurship is being implemented, 6.3 million tenge was allocated for these purposes in 2014, the report said.
The headquarters provides for well-known public figures in our city, party members, representatives of public and non-governmental organizations, "he said.
our general thoughts are that the elections were held honestly and openly. in general the elections were transparent and fair .
The application is available for smartphones in the Android and ios operating system.
besides, a. According to Smailov, the creation of aj "e-statistics" will increase the effectiveness of work with statistical authorities, since the entire internal information system is interconnected and has benefits to overcome changes.
In this regard, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution on establishing the amount of expenses of presidential candidates covered by the republican budget.
He noted that the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in the Kuwaiti state will allow developing bilateral relations between the two countries in the trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres, reaching a qualitatively new level of Kazakh-Kuwaiti relations.
voters of Kazakhstan choose one of three candidates: candidate from khp, zhuldykov, self-nominated, kusain and head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
our task is to ensure the availability of information for the population, "the Governor of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region emphasized.
According to Kazakh data, last year bilateral trade turnover amounted to 3.1 billion dollars.
among those who congratulated on Independence Day and wished well-being to the people of Kazakhstan, Pope Francis, Emperor of Japan akihito, King of Saudi Arabia abdullah and abdel aziz al-Saud, King of Thailand Phumipon Adulyadet, King of the Netherlands Willem Alexander, King of Belgium Philip, Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Saudi Arab Kingdom, heir to the throne, Minister of Defense Salman and Abdulaziz al-Saud, Federal President of the Austrian Republic h.fisher, President of the Israeli State reuven rivlin, President of the Republic of Iraq Thomas, President of Ireland m.higgins, President of the Republic of Cyprus n.anastasiadis, President of the Republic of Korea, President of Cuba raul castro, President of the Myanmar Union.
our country has maintained political stability, inter-ethnic calm, denominations live together, the economy and business are strong.
According to the established schedule, construction work is expected to be completed in December of this year.
allocated funds - 32 billion tenge.
we hope that our visit and efforts aimed at strengthening cooperation will be realized by the common desire of our countries and will have a positive impact on the state of the trade sector, "he said.
The Head of State emphasized the role of Nursultan Nazarbayev in strengthening relations between the two countries.
The Chairman of the Culture Foundation presented to experts the Kazakhstan project "Great Migration of Peoples," implemented under the auspices of UNESCO.
there are no changes for those who have entered this category. this year the categories of applicants have not been changed .
The President of Lithuania also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev and the entire Kazakh people on the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and wished well-being to our republic.
according to him, this can be implemented, and Kazakhstan will achieve this.
Our task is a clear implementation in combination with other priority areas of the country's foreign policy, "he said.
cadets of the military institute developed a staged program, showed excerpts from the battles in which Kazakhstanis participated, and sang military songs, the report said.
The meeting participants also discussed the development of the state educational accumulative system in Kazakhstan.
Nauryz is prepared with the addition of dishes of 7 sacred figures, "the president said.
We implement it against the background of large-scale infrastructure programs in Kazakhstan.
Shinzo abe congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his apparent victory in the presidential election.
I was three brothers, two died of cold, and I was left alone, "said B. Shahmanov.
And the equipment for spring field work of Turmagambet LLP is already ready.
During the meeting, entrepreneurs in the region touched upon issues of paying taxes, state orders, subsidizing small and medium-sized businesses, trading in domestic goods, and certifying goods.
East Kazakhstan nuclear industry is a production zone of a developing country. east kazakhstan - is an industrial region of the country .
leaders and employees of small and medium-sized businesses, active entrepreneurs and peasants take part in these exercises.
in Kazakhstan, the direction of transplantology is gradually developing.	transplantation is developing in kazakhstan .	1,09
Also, Karim Massimov held a meeting with the ex-chairman of the general assembly of the vuk couple eremich.	besides , the prime minister of kazakhstan held a meeting with the former chair of the un general assembly vuk jeremic .	1,09
in Alma-Ata region, the dry port of Aea "Khorgos - Eastern Gate" was commissioned.
according to him, the status of an authorized operator will be improved in the new code.
the project of the multifunctional talan tower complex includes a hotel with 157 seats, a shopping gallery with an area of ​ ​ 8300 square meters, a class business center and residential premises.
During the meeting various issues of further strengthening of business partnership of Kazakhstan and Tatarstan were discussed.
Guests invited Kazakh colleagues to take part in the festive events in Ashgabat in December of this year.
Trading in the second level market began on November 19, 2014. trading on the secondary market started from december 19 , 2014 .
in the modern world, everyone needs warmth, love.
We must work in this direction, "said the head of the region.
war veterans, mothers with many children, orphans, families of those who died in the workplace, workers in the field of education, health care, law enforcement agencies and young families.
The training program was developed for employees of the regional and district akimats, whose tasks include analyzing the current situation, determining regional development issues, choosing measures to solve these issues and assessing their impact.
Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev got acquainted with the construction of the Aray microdistrict in the regional center in the hippodrome microdistrict, which is being built as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program and together with the joint-stock company Kazakhstan Credit Company.
the results of the analysis will be submitted to the head of state at the end of the year.
The relevance of the discussion of agenda issues, in the general opinion of the participants, is related to strategic tasks to ensure international and regional security, to mobilize the forces of supervisory bodies of various countries to protect the interests of society and the state.
investment subsidies are aimed at reimbursing a share of 20 to 80% of the costs of implementing an investment project.
this year we celebrate the twenty-third year of sacred independence. this year we celebrate the 23rd anniversary of our independence .
At the initiative of the Kazakh side, the heads of the foreign ministries of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan adopted a joint statement dedicated to the 40th anniversary of the signing of the double conclusion act.
According to the results of the work, 990 out of 1,553 citizens who applied received consultations on the registration of various social payments, 452 people received applications for changing their details, 111 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
the championship was held in the center of intellectual sports "burabai."
attracting strategic (anchor) investors to form a single operator for the formation and development of road transport infrastructure.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the special role of economic well-being in strengthening the cultural life of Kazakhstan.
The first stage of the regional competition of the best pedagogical families was attended by 20 pedagogical families.
Every year the state support of agro-industrial complex entities of Akmola region increases. the state support of agro-industrial complex of akmola region increases every year .
the population has a low legal literacy rate. there is a lack of legal awareness among the public .
along with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela, the Minister of Oil of that country also comes to us.
everyone passes in an organized manner, they did not meet any problems. everything is held in an orderly way , we have not seen any problems .
in general, the economy is covered by all potato growing equipment.
Turkic language in Ukrainian, "Kazakh social networks for young people," "formation of a new value of patriotism" are only some topics that show how much students are engaged in research in a wide worldview.
The monthly fee for apartments sold with the right of redemption - 1,289,41 tenge per 1 square meter, the cost of 1 square meter of directly sold apartments - 143,987 tenge.
In addition, during the collection, classes will be held on fire training, tactics, engineering training, topography, medical training, communications and mountain training.
The progress and prospects of the implementation of the road program "Nұrly zhol," the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the potential of the five institutional reform programs will become key issues of discussion at this forum.
this issue changed all my plans, and I began to engage in entrepreneurship, because in this area it was possible to protect the rights of women, "he continued.
the above-mentioned functional elements of the project make it possible to guarantee and qualitatively provide coordinate-time and navigation services to users of information of global navigation satellite systems (gps, glonass) in order to improve the accuracy of coordinate determination for cadastral and land survey works, topographic and geodetic works, accurate design of construction works and agriculture, engineering and applied works, etc.
A number of complex issues were discussed during our meeting today. we held negotiations with mr. zarif on all aspects of our relations .
In addition, during the working trip, the largest enterprises in the region concluded 6 memoranda worth 22 billion tenge in local and Kazakh content.
Roads No. 24, No. 25 and No. 27 were laid, the consumption of which is 489.5 million tenge.
The revenue part of the local budget reached 12.5 billion tenge.
today it is important to strengthen unity, harmony and stability, so we consider you a worthy candidate for the presidency of the country.	it is crucial more than ever , to strengthen the unity , harmony and stability , so we believe you worthy candidate for the post of president of the country .	1,09
82 participants and veterans of the Second World War received housing; Overhaul of houses for 13 thousand veterans was carried out, apartment phones for 31.6 million tenge were installed; 17.6 veterans are provided with medicines worth 72.4 million tenge, Duissenova added.
there are a number of factors affecting our lives and economies.
At the same time, the President noted that this day brings the Kazakhstani peoples closer today.
Kazakhmys implements a program to develop local content.
As a way to create an effective public administration system with a professional and compact state apparatus, the head of state called the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, which will begin to enter the 30 most advanced countries in the world, "said Vice Minister of National Economy Madina Abylkasymova.
Members of Parliament and business representatives praised the achievements of independent Kazakhstan, noting the contribution of Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev to ensuring regional and world security, economic reforms and interethnic reconciliation.
The delegation of our country, chaired by Chairman of the nadloc kairat Bekturgenov, as well as Executive Director of Machine-Building Timur Altaev, visit enterprises in the industrial centers of Italy, "the statement said.
At the same time, the remaining 25 billion tenge will be allocated for export and export financing in 2016, that is, for capitalization as targeted transfers to the equity deposit guarantee fund in the amount of 15 billion tenge and 10 billion tenge.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, prior to this period, uniform requirements and general conditions for the circulation of medicines in the eurozone will be created.
this is the key to the future of Kazakhstan.
the Kazakh parliament needs to create conditions for the direct operation of the law.
military personnel organized duty at the communications node, launched radio centers, telegraph and telephone centers, as well as an organizational channel.
in addition, bilateral meetings of the chairman of the meeting with colleagues from the CIS countries are provided.
This year, during the flood, the "hero" demonstrated his power.
trade turnover between the two countries is growing every year.	trade turnover of between the two countries growth annually .	1,09
the past winter season was successful for Kazakhstan sports.
participants will present new equipment, technologies and services for the industrial complex of Kazakhstan.
I think that the President of Kazakhstan has a long-term policy that is fully consistent with the Kazakhstan-2050 program.
sausage and canning products over the year increased by 9 and twice, respectively.
Following the results of the business forum, it is planned to organize bilateral meetings in the format of b2b between Singaporean and Kazakhstani entrepreneurs.
During the meeting, issues of mutual interest were discussed, including the cooperation of the prosecutor's office on law enforcement, transnational organized crime, countering the laundering of proceeds from crime, as well as Kazakhstan's accession to the Council of Europe conventions on international legal cooperation in criminal matters, and the expansion and strengthening of the bilateral legal framework.
we need to include a nationwide action "One country is a big family," said N. Nazarbayev.
In this regard, we consider it important to hold early elections and fully support the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the letter says.
Recall that the train "My Kazakhstan" on a 30-day trip will visit 29 settlements and on April 22 will arrive in the capital.
this theme is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, "said M.Fedorov.
According to him, today the world is beginning to heat up with a new wave of financial and economic instability.
One of the main principles of the rule of law is to ensure the rule of law, that is, all citizens and legal entities, officials, representatives of state bodies, any entity that has entered into public relations should have legal priority as the main object.
Since the beginning of the year, due to the more than double drop in world oil prices and the possibility of further deterioration of the situation, a forecast was made on how the development of the Kazakh economy can be in the event of an increase in oil prices in the range of $50-30, the Minister of National Economy said.
targeted transfers and loans from the republican budget to the regional budget are 44.5 billion tenge, "he concluded. sharips.
The installation of sound devices at traffic lights took 1.1 million tenge.
The Turkish side expressed maximum support for this international event.
The work of the intergovernmental commission was attended by the co-chairs of the commission, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev and delegates from two countries headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister.
The sides noted the importance of further deepening cooperation between Kazakhstan and Luxembourg.
the master plan provides for a deep analysis of the car market of the East Kazakhstan region, an assessment of existing and promising projects in the automotive industry. the master plan provides carrying out of in-depth analysis of east kazakhstan 's car market , assess of existing and ongoing projects in the field of automobile industry .
for me, all of Kazakhstan is a golden cradle, and we should all be the same.
As the main topic of the agenda, issues of increasing multilateral cooperation in the field of countering terrorism, separatism and extremism were discussed. the main item on the agenda was the discussion of issues of multilateral cooperation in combating terrorism , separatism and extremism .
An alternative system will be created in the village of Kuryk, "said deputy Nikolai Logutov.
In general, as V. Vinnik noted, this contributes to the trade of the two countries.
The United Arab Emirate Company is ready to invest in our country and currently signed the long-awaited tripartite memorandum of understanding and cooperation between the akimat of Aktau, Mangistau Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the imperial company Renyble Energy Kazakhstan.
there are many factors, including financial ones. there are many factors , including financial opportunities .
As part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of World War II, special attention was paid to the implementation of the Ardaқtayy project.
the state will help small and medium-sized businesses, agricultural producers.
Long-term observers of the CIS took part in a meeting of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at which issues of preparation for the elections were discussed.
Kazakh diplomats called on Thai entrepreneurs to expand the geography of their business and implement new joint investment projects in Kazakhstan.
now the company intends to work with youth organizations in the country.
we brought with us the soil of Astana land in a capsule and transferred to the memorial museum "mother's mound."
we gained independence and went through difficult moments, crises in a difficult period. we gained the independence in difficult times , went through the difficulties .
Following the meeting, a general agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, republican associations of employers and employees for 2015-2017.
achievements on this path are directly related to your name, "the telegram says.
I want to thank you very much for your fruitful work. thank you for what you have , because giving love and light to others .
During the entire electoral period, the courts of the Republic of Kazakhstan received 7 applications regarding the electoral process, of which 1 was withdrawn, 3 was rejected, 1 was rejected, 1 was left without consideration and administrative proceedings were terminated on 1 complaint.
we must respect our veterans and educate young people to respect them.
all requirements should be clearly reflected, without any distortion, "said the president of the public fund.
According to the e-government website, the main achievement of bilateral cooperation is the launch of the single sign-on (so) mechanism, which is a single authorization between information systems.
The Ministry of Agriculture has created all the necessary conditions for spring field work. the ministry of agriculture is engaged in providing all necessary conditions for the spring field work .
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented with a fresh flower of this variety, brought from Holland.
The event was organized by the republican public association "Congress of Political Scientists of Kazakhstan" and the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
during the event of comrades akhtanov, m. Baigut, w. without a place of residence, a. Ashiri, J. Soltieva, b. brecht and other representations of domestic and modern authors, such as Yesenalieva.
We hope that the new course of development of the country will achieve higher successes, "the congratulation says.
we also hope for an expansion of economic cooperation, which will contribute to the further advancement and deepening of our relations, "the telegram says.
cooperation agreements have now been concluded with South Korea, Germany, Italy, Poland and Russia.
now we need mega-projects. now we need mega-projects .
7 years in the army. i have served seven years .
all agreements were concluded in this direction.
these are not only modernization, but also environmental issues.
In turn, Yuri Oksamitny noted that Kazakhstan has achieved concrete achievements in the field of health and social development.
we, as young people of a free country, choose the path to peace and solidarity, "said Nursultan Dusenbayev, head of the Shymkent region.
our task is to carry out explanatory work and increase the cultural level of the population, "said the Darhan Mynbai.
We are confident that in this difficult winter period, every Kazakhstani should actively participate in the presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the meeting, B. Aytimova informed the participants about the important domestic political and international events planned in Kazakhstan.
the current generation lives in modern independent Kazakhstan. the current generation lives quietly in independent kazakhstan .
this requires harmonization of national legislation.
Participants of the event thanked Kazakhstanis for supporting the "Memory Relay" action and noted the relevance of patriotic education of young people in order to preserve the historical memory of the Great Patriotic War.
our trading partner, if you leave the sanctions against Russia, on the one hand, leave the neighboring country, on the other, help domestic producers, "Madinov said.
Therefore we held a special meeting of bureau of political council of Nr Otan party today and adopted such statement.
in addition, e. According to Dosayev, the head of state instructed to optimize budget expenditures, expenses of national holdings and companies, enterprises.
the development of private medicine, the introduction of corporate governance in medical institutions.
Within the framework of the recent visit of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan to China, an agreement was reached with the State Development Bank of China and Exi Bank of China totaling $1 billion 150 million.
at yesterday's oath-taking ceremony, President Nursultan Nazarbayev said that Kazakhstan has entered a new wave of state structure. yesterday 's inaugural speech of the president affirmed that kazakhstan is on the eve of a new round of state-building .
value in world construction is the harmonious development of man, the ability to responsibly relate to the values ​ ​ of the world and evaluate it, "said T. Tajibaeva.
it is also an economic integrated development plan of states, which includes many sectors, such as infrastructure, industry, trade and activities, and ensures the stability and security of the Eurasian center.
the names of our Ilyans, gennady Golovkin, Denis, Alexander Vinokurov and other Olympians who also became famous at the London Olympiad. the whole world knows the names of our famous olympians - ilya ilyin , gennady golovkin , denis ten , aleksandr vinokurov and many others , including those who made a splash at the london olympics .
since the adoption of the kick project with the support of Baiterek Holding, he has been actively working to find an investor, as a result of lengthy negotiations, Zerde gnb LLC was involved in the project.
The history of Kazakhstan's economic achievements and business opportunities, the volume of work carried out by the government to modernize the state, as well as the system of investment incentives for foreign investors had a great influence on representatives of Bahraini business.
but this is not an ideological, but a feature film. " amantai.
we want to say that the presidential election in Kazakhstan was held openly and meets the requirements of democracy.
According to the CEO of amg, in 2014 the company conducted a study on the assessment of flight safety.
A professional group of screenwriters, directors, historians-consultants was involved in the implementation of the project.
Kazakhstan is the first and only state in central Asia that, at the expense of the state, treats patients with aithv/jitz disease (since 2009).
In particular, by the decision of the political council of the Nұr Otan party, the following agenda was submitted to the congress:
we have identified the level of singers in the genre of duet, trio, quartet and vocals performing in the ensemble. we decided to reveal the level of singers acting in duets , trios , quartets and ensembles .
With the outbreak of World War II, it was part of the 518th anti-aircraft artillery regiment.
my name, the name of the spouse of Alena, sons: daulet, sultan and emir. my name is yerzhan , my wife 's name is alena , sons daulet , sultan , amir .
107 feldsher-midwife stations were built, more than 200 water supply, sewerage, gas and heat supply facilities were repaired, "he concluded.
The meeting will discuss the development of bilateral cooperation, health, education, gender policy, and the exchange of statistical data.
The Kazakh side expressed hope for participation in the upcoming VIII Astana Economic Forum, the fifth congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, as well as in the Expo-2017 exhibition dedicated to future energy, which is one of the largest events in Kazakhstan.
According to experts, the volume of trade between the main markets on the Eurasian continent will grow 1.5 times (in 2014) to 800 billion dollars, in 2020 it will amount to 1.2 trillion dollars, while in China and the countries of the European Union it will grow from 615 to 800 billion dollars, between China and India will increase from 66 to 92 billion dollars, "said A. Mamin.
The Ministry of Education and Science plans to introduce a three-level program in schools of the republic this year.	in order the teachers not to be retrained in higher education institutions , the ministry of education and science implements the three-level program at schools this year .	1,10
It is worth noting that over the past 5 years, budget funds in the amount of 7 billion tenge have been spent on the formation of the entire infrastructure of the special economic zone.
today we signed 3 international documents. today we have signed three intergovernmental agreements .
As the honorary rabbi of the March commission, Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov dedicated video congratulations to the guests of the event and called for a visit to our region, known for its hospitality, explaining the philosophy of the holiday.
investment fund of Kazakhstan "implements a project of a glass production plant with a capacity of 197 thousand 100 tons per year in the territory of the Kyzylorda region.
unfortunately, very rarely do you meet magnetic souvenirs with images of the cities of Kazakhstan. unfortunately , today there are very few beautiful and interesting souvenir magnets of cities of kazakhstan .
General Designer of Arlan - Construction LLP.
I wish everyone well-being and success! " - said akim of the region.
In addition, since January 1 of this year, on the basis of a decree of the Government of Kazakhstan, pensions of citizens who retired in service in the armed forces have increased by 9%.
We believe that the international monitoring institution as a necessary and obligatory condition for the development of democracy is an important element in ensuring the conduct of democratic elections, as well as the observance of citizens' electoral rights, "said a member of the CEC.
From 2005 to 2014, the volume of direct investments from the Singapore Republic to Kazakhstan amounted to about $50 million, Kazakhstan invested $900 million in Singapore. said E. hairov.
in other words, Europe has solved this problem, so I think that we, together with our antitrust service, will successfully cope with this task, "he said.
the role of the father is especially important because he is a real role model for his child and a chief consultant.
The briefing will be attended by Majilis MP Maira Aisina, Executive Director of the Coalition for Green Economy and Development g-global Askhat Suleimenov, Director of the Social Dynamics Public Fund Elena Ozhgo, winners of the Coca-Bronze-2014 contest alla Karabolatova and Zhanar Baibolova.
our common task is to respect our veterans and popularize historical courage. "
The construction of "green" ethno-houses for guests will allow you to talk about ordinary Kazakhstanis, "said the head of the fund.
the main product of kamaz engineering is the shipper and special equipment.
This competition is very important for the country, if Kazakhstan is known to the whole world as a political center, now it will be presented as a center of culture and art. this competition is important and significant , kazakhstan will be recognized worldwide as the political center with a strong economy and rich culture .
In addition, much depends on the active position of citizens, "the akim said at the reporting meeting with the population.
In the reporting year, 450.0 million tenge was allocated from the national budget to attract high-pressure gas networks in 10 settlements of Merken district and 55.5 million tenge from the local budget to support the project.
as part of the program of the visit i. Adyrbekov lr met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Linas Linkevicius, First Deputy Chairman of the Sejm Lr Vidas Gedvilas, Chancellor of the Government Lr Alminas Machiulis and Lr Minister of Transport and Communications Rimantas Sinkevicius.
the number of arcars, buckwheat, kulans, deer is also growing.
according to the rector, the inter-ethnic stability and tolerance of Kazakhstan are a vivid example for many countries.
The President of the Senate briefed the Rabanians on preparations for the Fifth Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, to be held in June this year, on the dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for peace, development and security.
In accordance with the schedule of the mega-project, the Department of Justice of Akmola region transferred the "book of friendship" to the Department of Economy and Budget Planning of Akmola region.
According to him, Kazakhstani employees started an internship in Milan.
despite the difficult natural situation, the growth of crop production amounted to 98.4%, animal husbandry - 3.8%.
The Ministry of the Interior will take all measures to finance the National Guard. the ministry of interior will take all measures in order to finance the national guard .
classes on special training, "" Procedure for conducting radio frequencies, "" Mobile radio communication system. "
During the discussion, the prospects of EAEU expansion were raised taking into account the barriers and benefits of current and potential union members, issues of influence on economic cooperation with some CIS countries and the European Union and existing issues within the eurozone.
these innovations will indeed become our main policy in the fight against corruption, which should be enshrined in the new law "On Public Service," he said. Nazarbayev.
of which KZT160.9 mln was allocated for strengthening the material and technical base of the industry, KZT153.6 mln - for construction and reconstruction of cultural objects.
The participants of the event considered topical issues of the further development of the Istanbul process, the security situation in Afghanistan and the region, as well as the priorities and economic continuity of the region.
i. adyrbekov informed the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the President of Kazakhstan N.A. The President of the Republic of Latvia handed andris berzins a letter asking to support the proposal of Kazakhstan in the elections to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2016.
Complex worth 3 million 200 thousand. Tenge was received under the white loan of the Fund for Agricultural Support.
Adaulbaev also reported on measures aimed at replenishing the budget and returning unused land to state ownership, as well as spoke about other relevant issues of supervisory activity.
During the meeting, the situation in the country's economy and financial sphere was considered depending on the situation in regional and world markets.
for residents of Sarterek and office villages this is a big event.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. A delegation of the government led by Saparbayev visited Pavlodar region on a working visit.
the achievements of our economy have been achieved.
today the LGC project is under development.
the law is aimed at improving the effectiveness of scientific research and its targeted use, "said the State Duma.
it is necessary to establish an eco-tourism business for young people. it is necessary to establish the ecological tourist business for young people .
the athlete and his coach will also be awarded, "the confederation coordinator added.
the development of the agro-industrial complex this year will be carried out within the framework of the main tasks set out in the message of the head of state "Way to a bright future."
for civil servants - implementation of individual annual plans; for public authorities - implementation of strategic plans; for ministers and akims - special indicators of the quality of public services, quality of life, attracting investments; integral macroeconomic indicators - for members of the government.
on the initiative of the leadership of the department and the council, veterans are constantly assisted, department employees congratulate on holidays, meetings of veterans and schoolchildren are organized.
The use of solar energy in rural areas to address sanitation issues. the use of solar energy is of paramount importance for the solving the health issues in the rural areas , " she said .
Recall that the President took the initiative to prepare a special program of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the basis of the national action "Big State - Big Family."
today we are starting the baton of "20 good deeds," today the metropolitan assembly has replenished 20 good deeds, that is, this year we will hold 20 events in support of the assembly.
The main thing is to work together, know a lot about each other, hold hands, "said D. Rusberg.
we expect that graduates of this training center will be employed 100% in the oil and gas industry, "he said.
they do not introduce any "reforms" in the Kazakh electoral process.
senators who spoke on this issue noted the importance of the adopted law, pointing out a number of relevant issues: e.astayev, e.nigmatulin, m.bactiyarov.
this is a sign of friendship, support, unity.
According to him, there is a medical center and food institutions.
Kazakhstan's achievements in sports are enormous.
In 2015, the company plans to purchase goods and services of the capital's enterprises in the amount of 49 billion tenge.
We reaffirm our commitment to the electoral process to ensure the freedom of expression of citizens in accordance with the principles of openness, fairness and competition, domestic law and international standards, "the head of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry summed up.
One of the major projects implemented in the region is the construction of a mining and processing workshop at the Maksut field in the Abay region.
their feat always remains an example for generations, "said Colonel M. Abirov, deputy head of the rehabilitation garrison for educational and socio-legal work.
This year, attention will be paid to public private partnership, "he said.
the text of the law is published in the press.
This is one of the major measures that we plan, "he said.
this project will begin to work fully in the middle of this year.
and the multinational company Kazhrom announces its civil duty to support the proposal to give the head of state a new mandate of national confidence to continue work aimed at the unity, prosperity and good of the country.
For many years, the leader of the nation of Kazakhstan has experienced difficult times in the formation of a democratic and legal state, "said the chairman of the branch of the regional Turkish cultural center" Akhyska "Shahismail Asiyev.
Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Tatarstan Ravil Zaripov noted Tatarstan's interest in strengthening trade and economic ties in the field of mechanical engineering, the fuel and energy complex, transport and urban water supply.
the number of provided services in electronic form increased by 2 times compared to 2013 (2014 - 31,243 (50.5%), 2013 - 13,862 (13.8%).
with a presentation on glass with sand, we introduce visitors to the culture, traditions, history of the Kazakh people. we will introduce the history , culture , customs of the kazakh people with the help of presentations , painted on glass with sand .
Further, the tournament of the cocktail national student league is held in the cities of Astana and Karaganda and ends in Shymkent.
The implementation of stabilization will increase the competitiveness of the economy, increase business responsibility and simplify the regime for Kazakhstan to join the organization of economic cooperation and development, ensure the stability of social and labor relations, "said Atameken Chairman Nurzhan Altayev.
cooperation is carried out in two areas - price maintenance and exchange of information on price proposals.
According to the report, 83 investment projects from Aktobe region are included in the industrialization map of Kazakhstan.
in the elections, we showed the world our unity and power.
today all this has been completed, "the letter says.
In particular, issues of awarding veterans of the Second World War and persons equated to them with jubilee medals, providing them with social, material and medical assistance, as well as participation in festive events of veteran delegations of Kazakhstan in the CIS countries were discussed.
In addition, the advanced Akbike and Makhmutov were awarded a silver medal in the nomination "violin."
we will see the exact geography of the export direction in the second half of the year. we will see the geography of our deliveries adjusted in the second half .
in Pavlodar and Kostanay regions all residents returned home.
the programme will be the basis for the creation of many new jobs and the growth of the economy and prosperity of the country.
The Board of Holders approved the draft action plan for interaction with the Commission and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations for 2015-2018. the college of the ece approved the draft of action plan on cooperation of commission and the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ( fao ) for 2015-2018 years .
If we look at the current state of Kazakhstan, then we will gather and see the existing country.
During the meeting, the heads of state signed a number of decisions related to the regulation of the activities of the EAEU bodies, the creation and work of the court and the commission of the union, as well as the appointment of a member of the board (minister) for energy and infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
young people expressed their support to the leader of the nation, and they are ready to go to a bright future with their country, "said the deputy akim of Kostanay masut Kaliyev.
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
they are my support. "
this is a new factor in deepening our economic and investment cooperation, "the Minister of Foreign Affairs said.
representatives of ethnocultural associations within the framework of the action will tell war veterans, home front workers and youth about the history of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
On behalf of the Mayor of the city, 4 kindergartens are being built in the city of Aktau and a major overhaul of kindergarten No. 32 in the 12th microdistrict is being carried out.
We are now planning to increase the amount of financing for development work so that scientists, together with business, conduct specific scientific research, "said the deputy minister.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on issues related to the socio-political situation in Turkey and relations between the two countries, as well as discussed issues of strengthening partnership on the basis of historical, cultural and spiritual ties between the two countries, including cooperation between political parties of Kazakhstan and Turkey.
According to him, respecting veterans is an honest thing.
among these banks are a bank center loan, sberbank, Caspian bank, asiacreditbank and others.
In December 2013 - 0.3%, "he said.
take-off was carried out in three stages along the route Spain - Greece - Azerbaijan - Kazakhstan.
9. Completion of the 1st phase of the construction of a 21 MW (9 MW) wind farm.
At the meeting of the head of Tatarstan and the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan, prospects of cooperation in the military and military-technical sphere will be discussed.
The head of state stressed the importance of introducing advanced management principles, clear strategic planning to increase the efficiency of domestic companies.
The civil alliance of Kyzylorda region noted the need for important elections for the future of the country.
In this regard, the head of UNESCO got acquainted with the basic principles and directions of the President's message, as well as with the results of 20 years of activity of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
including trilingualism (Kazakh, Russian, English), speech culture, communication ethics, service standards, issues of solving acute situations.
In his speech, the Governor of Bangkok Sukumbanda Paribatra noted the importance of Asian and European cooperation in the light of globalization and current geopolitical events, and also congratulated the delegation of the capital - a new member of the Asia-Europe forum.
The "Nұrly zhol" program provides for the support of farmers through infrastructure development to develop the borders of the village.
today we are entering a new wave of history. today we pass confidently another milestone of our great history .
Since the beginning of the program in the region 239 projects worth 32.1 billion tenge have been approved, 2,462 new jobs have been created.
its main feature is sustainable development and stability of economic growth.
Today, it is necessary to combine all efforts for the implementation of the program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" and the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
Jacob Zenn, the expert of Jamestown fund took part in discussion of questions of the report ("jamestown foundation, akh").
n. Under the leadership of Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has passed through many transitional times with honor. under the leadership of nursultan nazarbayev kazakhstan adequately passed through many trials and crises .
During the briefing, the work of the capital's "National Scientific Cardiac Surgery Center," recognized as worthy of international registration joint commission international (jci), will be discussed.
Currently, the capacity to produce electricity from Kazakhstan is increasing. at present , the ability to export electricity from kazakhstan is increased .
People with disabilities fought for participation in the Zvezda-2015 competition.
According to the results of the forum, participants took part in the competition for youth of Kazakhstan "Together with the country - to new achievements!" It is planned to accept an appeal.
At the same time, the Chairman of the meeting noted that the political direction of our head of state is to support social prosperity, global peace and security, and the development of friendly relations between countries.
About 200 speakers will also speak, including representatives of international organizations, government, non-governmental organizations, Nobel Prize winners, "he said.
at this distance, the Kazakh teams "West Kazakhstan, North Caucasus, Almaty regions and Udmurtia (Russia) show the best indicators.
the Iranian side is interested in implementing various investment projects in Kazakhstan, including minerals, "said the Iranian Foreign Minister.
the second five-year plan is intended for innovative construction.
Great support in the creation of the book was provided by Wilsk and Kobdin district akimats, the state archive of cinema, photos and sound recordings, the regional archive.
We hope that the trade turnover will exceed 1 billion US dollars, "said E. idrissov.
Support measures should be expanded to take into account the current economic conditions. given the current economic state we have to extend the range of support measures , " the president said .
Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the technical equipment and the system of operation of the complex.
memories of the war are preserved in his stories, old letters and awards.
we will now work with Russian public organizations to combat corruption, the inauguration of veterans, environmental security, water resource problems, "said NER.
N. Nazarbayev nұrly zhol. "
I tell all company executives that with reduced productivity and reduced jobs, it is necessary to try to save jobs, "the president said.
Kazakhstan's strategic priority is the development of entrepreneurship, which forms the basis of the domestic market economy.
on republican property - 7, on communal property - 68, on akku - 48, on holdings - 37, "the report said.
According to the expert, 5 reform is a 5 power vector that contributes to the advancement of Kazakhstan.
Chairman of the Industrial Development and Industrial Safety Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development. informed the participants of the meeting about the state and promising development of the chemical industry.
Almaty will present the true appearance of Kazakhstan in winter sports, all sports will be accumulated. in the winter sports almaty will represent the true face of kazakhstan , which will be collected almost all sports .
The Caspian royal fish complex with an annual capacity of 100 tons of marketable fish, 1 ton of marketable caviar, 100 thousand pieces of young red fish in the village of Tomarovo was launched in October last year.
in the conference S. State Secretary of the Federal Ministry for the Protection of the Environment, Construction and Nuclear Safety of Germany flasbart, Chairman of the Chernobyl Shelter Fund. blix, Minister of Ecology of Ukraine Shevchenko and representatives of foreign countries.
The solemn event was held with the participation of Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev, as well as foreign investors and diplomatic representatives, representatives of the association and organization took part in the event.
in particular, they discussed issues prevailing in Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria. in particular , the problems in yemen , iraq , afghanistan , syria .
As N.Nazarbayev said, firstly, Kazakhstanis noticed their level.
In his speech, he noted the importance of discussing the goals of the meeting and road safety issues.
real cash revenues grew by 2.6%, "the report said.
In turn, F.Vuyanovich highly appreciated the preparation of Kazakhstan for EXPO-2017.
the status of the chairman of the court is a mirror of compliance with the law in our country, "he concluded.
Kazakhstan expressed solidarity with African, Latin American and Caribbean countries and contributed to the financing of the permanent monument.
social protection measures for older persons are being implemented at both the central and regional levels. today , social protection of older people is being implemented at both the central and regional levels .
on the station square it is necessary to install new benches, plant flowers, install billboards and lamps, "the report said.
That is, last year they were issued loans in the amount of 31.6 billion tenge.
The competition is organized in two languages, "- said in a statement.
he played a special role in the history of the formation, strengthening the independence of our country, the perception of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the people as a whole, the implementation of deep economic reforms and the large-scale modernization of the social and political basis of our society.
it was assembled as part of the Caring and Health car seat.
our future must be based on the idea of "eternal country."
in addition, they demonstrate their knowledge in the field of topography.
The construction of the Eurochem complex continues in Zhambyl region, this year the second stage will be completed and the company will begin to produce the first products, "the minister said.
according to the conclusion of the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship, the purpose of the protocol is to provide the possibility of unhindered passage of vehicles between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus for the transportation of goods and their territory.
Close veterans expressed gratitude.
Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Additions to the Kazakh-French Agreement on the Conditions for the Establishment and Operation of the Space Remote Sensing System and the Spacecraft Assembly and Test Complex of 6 October 2009 and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Health Organization on the Establishment of a Geographically Remote Office of the World Health Organization Organization for Primary Health Care in Almaty.
Issues of Perm companies participation in Expo-2017 in Astana were discussed in detail.
participants of the meeting discussed the further development of legal cooperation, including the membership of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Hague Conference on Private International Law, as well as Kazakhstan's accession to relevant conventions adopted by the Hague Conference.
sewing of the festive suit of the front-line soldiers will be funded by the regional council of veterans.
In total, over the past five years, 54 objects have been overhauled, including 29 cultural objects as part of the Roadmap program.
This memorandum is aimed at implementing the law adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the optimization and automation of public services in the social and labor sphere."
I want to note the relevance of our initiative to develop a new universal treaty for the universal horizontal and vertical non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. i would once again stress the actuality of our initiative on development of a new treaty on universal horizontal and vertical non-proliferation of nuclear weapons .
the experience of foreign countries shows that only specialists with a certificate are allowed to work with young people, "he said.
students were shown comparative results of international and domestic expertise, a model of world multiculturalism was determined, Kazakhstan's role in solving security and defense problems in international relations was determined.
since the beginning of the flood period, 6,518 people, 1,722 pieces of equipment, 154 water pipelines, 113 floating devices have been involved in emergency rescue operations.
unfortunately, they are not in the market now.
Kazakhstan is now part of the customs union and the Eurasian Union. kazakhstan is a member of the customs union , the eurasian community .
The Minister drew the attention of the participants to the issues of food security and called for supporting the initiative to create a Kazakh Islamic food security organization (iaku).
According to the expert, Kazakhstan stabilized its power, strengthened the parliament with its powers and influence, strengthened political parties and moved to the stage of development of civil society.
The Nұr zhol program proposed by the president, as well as the implementation of long-term priorities, such as the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and joining the thirty most developed countries in the world, require a clear focus on active work and priorities.
this is a new security criterion, we must continue cooperation with a positive result for all parties, "he said.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Yerbolat Dosayev informed about preliminary results of social and economic development of Kazakhstan in January-March this year.
The Minister drew special attention to the work of the "bridge building" between the largest organizations of the continent - the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union.
The President also noted that a congress of leaders of world religions is regularly held in the capital, the next congress will be held at the beginning of next month.
at the suggestion of parliamentarians, work costs, powers, expert, consulting research and individual expenses in the field of information, administrative expenses were reduced, "the deputy said.
are close to completion of the highway.
over the years, the region has become the world center of uranium production.
You realize this goal using the knowledge gained, "he added.
During the discussion, it was envisaged to create favorable conditions for increasing cargo by container train along the banda-abbas (Iran) - Kazakhstan - China route.
in addition, the production cost of electric energy is regulated by the state.
All winners of the festival were awarded diplomas, memorable statues and valuable gifts.
The removal of barriers to mutual trade is a factor in development. one of the important factors of the development is to eliminate the exemptions , restrictions in mutual trade .
During this period, the industry produced products worth 236.2 billion tenge. during the reporting period , the region has produced goods worth 236.2 billion tenge , which is 5.7 % higher than the planned target .
Also, 2 state kindergartens in the villages of dulat and atameken will be built.
Last year, Valikhan residents were the first to complete harvesting.
our people are a united whole, together we are building a powerful and stable homeland.
To do this, it is necessary to take into account logistics together, "said A. Batalov.
A memorandum of cooperation in the field of vocational education and training has been signed between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of National Economy of Hungary.
The Government of Kazakhstan constantly monitors internal and external factors.
its construction provides a positive economic effect for both the state and potential investors.
a parade of troops is the most important event in the country.
aa. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan is interested in strengthening relations with African countries.
According to the Foreign Minister, Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation with African countries in the field of energy and industrial safety.
More than 70 books are put on the fourth section - "Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - for 20 years."
Such awards were received by a housewife Zhumasheva (Zhanaarkinsky district), a health worker (karazhal city), an education worker nurgul imanbekova (Aktogai district), an entrepreneur of ruzalia akhmetova (Karaganda city) and a housewife Lyudmila Kovalenko (Karaganda city).
choosing the head of state, we make a choice in our future, on the way to the step of our country as a whole.
a complex of multidisciplinary industries for small and medium-sized enterprises; Establishment of a regional trade centre; development of a business development map in the capital and other measures.
The great brother said a hundred years ago that all nations are children of the same dynasty.
in conclusion, the author noted that, wishing the head of state health and success, he would continue his research in the field of tourism development in the country.
the meeting was attended by presidents from Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev, from the Republic of Belarus - Alexander Lukashenko, from Kyrgyzstan - Almazbek Atambayev, from the Russian Federation - Vladimir Putin, from Tajikistan - enamel rahmon, from Uzbekistan - Islam Karimov, as well as Chairman of the CIS Executive Committee Sergey Lebedev.
According to the press service of the Senate, the meeting discussed issues of expanding inter-parliamentary relations between the two countries.
Tomorrow, as part of the 8th aefa, I will have the opportunity to talk about infrastructure projects and tenders for foreign investors that will be implemented in Macedonia, "said Macedonian Foreign Investment Minister Furkan Chako.
today there is an effective social policy.
I am sure that both now and always it will be! "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to T. Dilbekov, one of the main areas of work was correspondence with museums of the republic, namely with the central state museum of Almaty.
this is an axiom, first of all, it is necessary to create jobs, create conditions for the population, and then a policy issue, "said the majilisman.
The work of this giant company has recently been closely related to this border in Kazakhstan.
now all the work will be done by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, "he said.
The President of Kazakhstan wished the audience success and high sporting achievements.
we were pleased with such desire and support. we are pleasantly surprised by such attention and support .
the m g_l_k ate "is familiar for a long time to Slavs and Turks.
there are disagreements in state support for agriculture. there are distortions in the evaluation of the system of state support of agriculture .
Currently, on behalf of the Prime Minister, the department is working on the creation of a fund that will deal with tax-free financing of microcredit organizations on the basis of apex fund. at present , on behalf of the prime minister the ministry is considering the issue of establishing of a fund on financing microfinance institutions on unsecured basis apex fund .
passenger turnover amounted to 20.3 billion pkm and increased by 2.6%, "the report said.
So, in 2014, research costs amounted to 66.4 billion tenge and increased by 2 times compared to 2010.
A. Isagaliyev urged Dubai investors to take part in these projects, noting the favorable investment climate in Kazakhstan and the introduced benefits for foreign investors.
on the portal, we provide information in the form of display, infographics, as well as organize online conferences and trainings, seminars, "said the rector.
- During the period of global challenges, President Nursultan Nazarbayev needs to provide a new trust mandate that will bring Kazakhstan out of the crisis.
the Minister visited a number of enterprises.
thus, the best scientific project dedicated to Kazakhstan's inter-ethnic tolerance and social harmony, and dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in "History - Glory to the Past!" Republican project, the megaproject "a thousand children."
During the conversation, issues of cooperation in the oil and gas sector and the implementation of the project for the development of the Kashagan field were discussed.
we want Kazakhstan to continue to lead the same person as you, "the authors write.
At the same time, the head of state noted very interesting directions in this area. "
According to the information, today voting takes place transparently, fairly, openly without any violations, in business conditions, calmly and in accordance with the norms of the electoral law, "said the secretary of the central election commission.
in particular, the head of state wrote a written work on the topic "our strength is in unity," read an excerpt from the work of Ilyas Yesenberlin, and in an oral conversation spoke out on the topic: "the words of ancestors are a source of wisdom."
In addition, within the framework of these events, the collection "My Kazakhstan" and "Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan" will be presented on the activities of ethnocultural associations.
Vladimir Putin congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
This project was organized by peasant farms "treasury," "hostess of ata" together with the Baikonur social entrepreneurship coordination, "the report said.
In addition, 2,434 houses were flooded, of which 2,213 houses were pumped out of water, "he continued.
ethnocultural associations of West Kazakhstan region sincerely congratulate Nursultan Nazarbayev on his election victory and inauguration. ethno-cultural associations of west kazakhstan region wholeheartedly congratulate nursultan nazarbayev on his victory in the elections .
This should not be, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the most difficult is a process that lasts weeks, months.
In the morning, B.Saparbayev visited the job fair at the Kazakh National University named after Al-Farabi and took part in the international scientific and practical conference "Integration of science, education and business as the basis for innovative development of the country."
we show the whole world an example of unity that can successfully counter the negative manifestations of the global economic crisis, "said B. Artayev.
for Hungary, Kazakhstan is the main partner in Asia. kazakhstan is the number one partner in the region .
dear Kazakhstanis, friends, supporters and now, in accordance with the constitution, I swore allegiance to my people. dear citizens of kazakhstan , friends , colleagues , associates , under the constitution i have just taken the oath to the nation .
therefore, our veterans deserve all respect not only in the holiday, but also in everyday life.
nevertheless, the economy made an economic report and decided on further development.
today, working with young people requires qualification. the current situation on the young generation demands really skilled work .
eeo is only an economic union, and in this case there is a deepening of the processes of removing barriers, the movement of goods, capital, etc.
In total, 1 million 300 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
For five years Kazakhstan's share in procurement of goods, works and services increased from 37.7% to 63.5%.
At the same time, we established constant contact with election commissions and interested state bodies, both at the central level and on the ground, "he added.
The prosecutor of the Muratbek region of isadils noted that 1.320 billion tenge of debt was returned under the act of prosecutor's response and 1035 billion tenge was returned to the state budget.
moreover, Kazakhstan should remain a secular State.
You can name this course as an application element.
It is worth noting that over a 5-year period, 75 projects were implemented in Kazakhstan with the output of 770 thousand jobs.
The state budget plan of the Department of State Revenue for the city of Astana for the 1st quarter of 2015 was implemented with an indicator of 105.6% in the plan of 157.1 billion tenge.
with the opening of a new rural club. i congratulate you on the opening of a new club .
As part of the execution of the order of the head of state by the Government of Kazakhstan and Samruk-kazyna, a comprehensive privatization plan for 2014-2016 was developed.
military personnel underwent combat training with and without weapons, performed exercises in physical, military-medical and technical training.
our main task is to pay attention to the rejection of children. our main task is to focus on the causes of child abandonment .
For the development of transport infrastructure in the Mangistau region, the Rehabilitation-Video Exhibition highway is being restored with the attraction of loans from the Asian Development Bank from the national budget.
The construction of a chemical gas complex will also begin, "said the head of the department.
To date, 104 doctors work here (of which 55 have qualification categories), 283 specialists with secondary medical education.
For 9 months of 2014, the number of employees in this segment increased by 1.1%, production increased by 5.6%.
The State provides full support for the development of agriculture and provides the necessary funds.
We can also say about the success of Denis ten, 3rd place at the World Championships in Shanghai, gold in the additional program, "said S. Musaybekov.
we support the proposal of the Asian Development Bank on the further implementation of new regional projects in the areas of priority areas within the framework of the Central Asian regional economic cooperation program, "said Timur Zhaksylykov.
during the years of kha service, the president put forward specific ideas.
In addition, the diplomat noted that the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan expects the upcoming visit of the Minister of Sports to the capital, "the statement said.
Production of goods and services per capita increased by 944.6 thousand tenge, which is 5.6% more than last year, he said.
The adoption of a new law on public service for all public authorities, including all law enforcement officials.
The solemn procession led by the military unit orchestra 5518 was attended by representatives of various ethnocultural associations, bikers and a chain of cars "bipek auto," "kazzink" white, "umz" white, "with growth." 88 employees of enterprises and organizations such as "Asia auto," students of state institutions, universities and colleges, students of city schools took part in it.
according to the acts of prosecutor's response, property totaling 289,342 million tenge was returned to the state, "the report said.
In addition, during 2014, the amount of the consolidated budget amounted to more than 1 trillion tenge, exceeding the figures of 2013.
Within the framework of the Address "Nұrly zhol" it is planned to open electric power projects in the eastern part of Kazakhstan, namely in the Semipalatinsk, Rostov, Aktogai directions.
the implementation of State programmes is important.
I want to emphasize our desire to further expand interstate relations with Kazakhstan in all areas, as well as increase our efforts in ensuring security, stability and multinational for the interests of our friendly countries and for the benefit of the entire Muslim world, the telegram says.
The Coordinating Council approved projects on the scarce direction of infrastructure: water supply system, power supply, sewerage and heating networks.
we unanimously support the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. we have always actively supported you policy casting our votes for you .
The President of Kazakhstan also talked with the staff of the enterprise and agricultural producers of the region.
your life is full of courage, heroism and perseverance. all your life is the feat of arms , courage and perseverance .
these veterans were awarded the Order of the Great Patriotic War of the second degree and medals for other achievements.
According to experts, the center of the global economy is focused on Asia.
this meeting showed us what action needs to be taken in the future. this meeting allowed us to achieve a certain decisions of the process of settlement of the conflict .
we have set up a republican public election oversight commission. we have created the republican public commission to monitor the elections .
The action "We forever remember," held in our country, is unique.
The main aspect of public policy is the creation of an industrial and innovative economy. the main aspect of state policy is the creation of industrial and innovative economy .
to attract investors and modern technological industries, an industrial zone with all the necessary infrastructure is being created in the city. the industrial zone is created with all necessary infrastructures for involving the investors and construction of modern technological facilities .
During the meeting with the Chairman of the Senate, Czech Ambassador to Kazakhstan Elishka Zhigova noted the significant achievements of Kazakhstan in the socio-economic sphere.
The program of the competition, which will be held for two days, will include European and Latin American dance programs.
According to astana solar, in 2015 the company plans to produce 170,000 units of solar panels, the capacity of which is 40 MW.
The conference was attended by representatives of more than 250 intergovernmental and business communities from south-eastern and western Europe, central Asia and the Caucasus.
district akims will summarize the results of the year, talk about the further development of the city territory and answer questions from residents.
Representatives of the government and Kazakhstani business will take part as speakers of the forum.
According to the project, we will approve the model certificate of the President of Kazakhstan, "said the Secretary of the Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan.
adb actively implements projects, including the financial sector; small and medium-sized businesses; infrastructure; including transport; energy and urban development, the Ministry of Finance said.
The head of the confectionery workshop, a participant in the Bzhk 2020 program, zhakupova shared her successful business by participating in the state program "Business Roadmap."
unity, inter-ethnic harmony.
The kizi of the peasant economy were highly appreciated by consumers, were recognized as the best products, "the akim of the region said.
Today, in difficult geopolitical conditions and unstable conditions of the world economy, Kazakhstan offers stable and reliable development thanks to the Head of State, "he said.
At the same time, Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev noted that this program will become an integral part of the project for 2015-2019.
Nursultan Nazarbayev on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on his own behalf expressed sincere condolences to their relatives and friends.
The meeting discussed the implementation of the action plan for the preparation and holding of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, as well as measures of social support for veterans.
In total, 1992 budget organizations were prepared, of which 916 were educational facilities, 704 health facilities, 372 social facilities, "he said.
He called on Croatian companies to actively cooperate with the Kazakh business, explaining that large Eurasian projects are being implemented in Kazakhstan, and noted the need to use such an opportunity so that the Kazakh market is open to the Croatian side.
in a difficult economic situation, our countries demonstrate a high level of mutual support and cooperation in the direction of genuine Eurasian integration, "he said.
Since the beginning of the shipbuilding program, the plant has produced 20 military vessels, the capacity of which will be from 27 to 240 tons.
The share of men in the total number of heads of legal entities at the beginning of this year amounted to 73.8%, women - 26.2%.
our priorities remain unchanged, they are reflected in the concept of the country's foreign policy. kazakhstan 's foreign policy concept reflects our permanent priorities .
At the same time, 5 thousand mW of existing capacities were modernized, an additional 1700 mW of electricity was launched, "said B. Arsenov.
according to the results of last year, the area of ​ ​ crops increased by 16.7 thousand hectares, including grain crops - by 27 thousand hectares.
such steps will ensure a balance between the tasks of collecting payments, create the necessary conditions for doing business and stimulate foreign trade.
In addition, the Minister got acquainted with the construction of the workshop of Leader-2010 LLP for the production of milk and kefir.
The Almaty publishing house presented at the exhibition new books of Kazakh writers, children's literature, culture and everyday life of the Kazakh people, traditions, heroic and lyrical songs, editions and albums of the collection "My Kazakhstani" in Kazakh, Russian and English.
the politics of the world and the expression of freedom, human rights, countering violent violence, extremism and xenophobia.
Iran intends to further deepen cooperation with Kazakhstan in this and other areas.
According to him, the first five-year plan of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development is well completed, the second five-year plan is actively being implemented.
this work should be carried out in an integrated and consistent manner, no one can increase their work.
we miners support your policy and, trusting you, ask you to nominate your candidacy for the upcoming presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the letter says.
aa. idriss presented Kazakh diaspora with books about Kazakhstan, textbooks in Kazakh for general education schools, as well as computers.
this can be achieved by changing the action, "said Yuri Danilevsky, program director of the Adises Institute in Kazakhstan.
The National Chamber will service upcoming projects in the regions. national chamber will provide the service support of projects that the regions will prepare .
The presentation of the commission's reports was attended by heads of internal policy departments of several regions of Kazakhstan, representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of Almaty, law enforcement agencies, legal scholars, representatives of state bodies and non-governmental organizations of Central Asia, international and non-governmental organizations, education and health organizations, business and horticulture.
"Public health issues and demographics are an important part of our state's social policy.
we have increased all benefits.
the first was a visit to Karaganda.
Recall that today the VIII Astana Economic Forum began work.
we will activate this promotion and publish information about donors.
moreover, this tool is not fully used.
more than 200 journalists from 37 countries reported on the presidential election in Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of national companies took part in the meeting of the Sherpa (Special Representatives) Advisory Council on the implementation of the initiative "Sustainable Energy for All," held in the Vienna branch of the UN.
Also, six veterans from the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, Pavlodar, as well as Almaty and South Kazakhstan regions will go to Moscow to participate in the parade dedicated to the anniversary of the Victory.
among them are members and veterans of the assembly in all regions of the country, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, members of parliament, heads of central and executive bodies, representatives of political parties and religious associations, non-governmental organizations, diplomatic missions of foreign states, scientific, creative intelligentsia, the media and rectors of higher educational institutions.
these two structures within the framework of trade and economic cooperation and the multilateral trade and economic program and the list of activities for the development of project activities for 2017-2021, "said K. Maxim.
So, according to him, in 2008-2010, the total gold and foreign exchange reserves of gold amounted to about $50 billion, that is, by this time the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves had grown 2 times.
The meeting noted that the region is implementing a program for the development of water and wind energy for 2006-2020.
there will be no temporary population. there is no such word " nation for a while . "
Also members of the delegation consisting of senators e. Mukaeva, Majilismen M.Ashimbayev, R. Madins, A.Bimendin, V.V. Medeu. took part in the opening of the new building of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Vietnam.
I will nominate n.nazarbayev.
in this case, agriculture in Kazakhstan has a positive trend.
By order of the Head of State, the Ambassador on special assignments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan aidar Zholbarysuli Abishev was appointed national coordinator for the activities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization from the Republic of Kazakhstan, the statement said.
diversification of the economy is aimed at the implementation of high-quality strategic plans, improving social well-being and the provision of public services at a high level.
A total of 8 thousand km will pass through China, Kazakhstan and Europe.
friendship house - the center of public consent, museum-reserve of East Kazakhstan region and natural landscape, organization, institutions "Solidarity" and "Vzglyad."
my father fought in the war from beginning to end. my father came through the war .
of which 19 are grandchildren, 35 great-grandchildren, 1 happy grandmother.
The final information on the observance of legality in the extraordinary presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be published additionally, "the official representative said.
All necessary organizational, technical and financial measures for the conduct of elections have been taken by the relevant electoral State bodies.
Rural labour inspectorates, the Department for the Coordination of Employment and Social Programs, Labour and Social Protection of the Population, more than 15 representatives of the State Center for the Payment of Pensions presented the "Book of Friendship" to the Department of Internal Affairs of Akmola region.
our newly created department - our task is to serve the people. "
Su-30 cm aircraft is a unique highly maneuverable fighter. the su-30sm is a unique , super-maneuverable fighter .
Last year, 587 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned in the Mangistau region. last year mangistau region commissioned 587,000 square meters .
Welcoming the Bulgarian counterpart on Kazakh soil, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan noted the friendly and structural nature of bilateral relations in the legal sphere.
the joint venture produces street lighting, lighting of production buildings, traffic lights, railway signs, household lamps and LEDs.
The Ljungan harbor is one of the strategic directions in a foreign country aimed at the effective development of the country's transport transit potential for Kazakhstan, "the report said.
cultural and tourism clusters, along with the key to stimulate creative activity of the population, intend to develop an infrastructure of commercial services aimed at achieving positive social and economic results.
It is held for 3 consecutive years on International Gypsy Day.
The implementation of the state program in state bodies was also discussed.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Malaysia Daniyar Kabidullayevich Sarekenov has been appointed acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Brunei region.
With his welcoming speech at the congress, the executive secretary of the Zhas Otan party, Nurlan Sydykov, reported to the participants on the work done by the "young homeland" of 2012-2015.
however, is now in disrepair.
In 2014, 31 projects totaling 5,027 million tenge were considered at a meeting of the council at the city akimat to consider innovative projects for forced industrial and innovative development, of which 28 projects were approved, 12 entrepreneurs were provided with land plots.
these elections will go down in history as a great trust placed in me by Kazakhstanis, the President of Kazakhstan stressed.
It is noted that the meeting participants heard a report by the representative of the Steam Children's Fund (UNICEF) in Kazakhstan, Yuri oksamit, on the project "City that concerns the child."
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during the meeting the Kazakh diplomat noted that for two decades Kazakhstan has created a unique model of political stability and interethnic harmony, based on the dynamic growth of the economy.
harvesters, sowing complexes, tractors, seeds, falcons.
The fact that young people in Kazakhstan take part in the elections and vote, make a choice in their future is just joyful, "the international observer said.
this is a historical opportunity to become an even stronger, ambitious, united country, implementing the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" and the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," he said.
the population of Kazakhstan as of May 1 reached 17 million 458.5 thousand people, including the urban population - 55.3%, rural - 44.7%. the population of kazakhstan as of march 1 of the current year amounted to 17 million 458 , 5 thousand people , including urban population - 55 , 3 % , and rural - 44.7 % .
support from the State and local executive bodies, as well as young people.
Kazakh society is beginning to flourish, "the head of state said.
it was about Kazakhstan and its world.
to prepare for the large-scale parade dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, military personnel of the types and branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who arrived in the capital from all regions of the country, mentors of higher and secondary special military educational institutions of Kazakhstan.
Rector of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences a.torkunov drew attention to the fact that under the wise leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev Kazakhstan not only significantly improved socio-economic indicators, but also decided on an innovative path of development.
Dear Kazakhstanis, I congratulate you on the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, this is a significant holiday for our country. dear friends , i congratulate you on the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan , it is a big celebration in our country .
I am sure that I will make every effort to deepen our cooperation, "the telegram says.
151 States have now ratified the convention, including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, the Russian Federation, and the slogan.
we announce the first winners of the state prize for Independence Day, "said the chairman of the committee.
It is worth noting that the Russian holding Efko plans to open two creameries with a capacity of 330 thousand tons per year in the north and south of Kazakhstan, as well as build 50 thousand tons of storage and 2 elevators.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of interaction between the two countries, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
we are members of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, realizing our responsibility and as real patriots of our homeland, we call on the people. we , members of the council of the assembly of people of kazakhstan aware the responsibility as a fellow of the president of kazakhstan and the true patriots of the country , appeal to the people of kazakhstan .
Information on the state of human settlements development should be accessible to rural residents. information about the state of human settlement development should be made available to its residents .
At this exhibition, two goals are planned: the presentation of the national section, the demonstration of Kazakhstan in the international arena.
we know where we're going.
In addition, the meeting participants discussed the prospects of cooperation between Almaty and Dubai.
In the action devoted to realization of the questions raised in Strategy-2050 and the new economic policy "Nr a way - a way to the future", the deputy of the Bundestag Karin Strents, the secretary of state of the Ministry of Economics, construction and tourism of the federal land Mecklenburg front line Pomerania Stefan Rudolph took part, the ambassador of RK in Germany became nusip and the president of Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the city of Schwerin.
for this, the country developed a strategic program of Kazakhstan until 2030, then it was released until 2050.
According to him, the Kazakh-Hungarian business forum showed an increase in interest between the business communities of the two countries.
According to the first stage, construction and repair work on the industrial site at the quarry was completed, the abc with infrastructure was repaired and put into operation, the construction of the priority facilities of the enrichment complex (dismantling and dry crushing) began, commissioning is scheduled for September this year.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bavarian State Secretary for European Affairs and Regional Cooperation Merker discussed issues of expanding interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Bavaria and deepening trade and economic relations.
According to him, the introduction of "green" technologies and practices through youth, ordinary families and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would ensure social development and stability in rural areas.
Particular attention was paid to the main institutional reforms proposed by the head of state at the last congress of the Nur Otan party.
The organization of veterans of TZh bodies and the personnel of the fire fighting service organize various events to provide social assistance to veterans, disabled people, war and labor veterans.
He also told representatives of the Dakb/ecu about the socio-political and socio-economic situation in the country, the department said.
The speaker also made an official statement in the House of Representatives of North Carolina on support for bilateral cooperation with our state and handed a copy of the letter to the Kazakh ambassador.
applicants for the title of best company commander had to successfully pass tests for knowledge of state-legal, fire, physical, tactical and special training, military topography, weapons and military equipment.
The event was attended by members of parliament, representatives of central state bodies, regional akims, heads of Astana and Almaty cities, representatives of national companies and local executive bodies, educational organizations and youth organizations.
Thus, all services for entrepreneurs are grouped into one place and provide services free of charge on the principle of "one window," representatives of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs said.
I want to thank everyone. i want to say thank you for everybody .
Kazakhstan has reached the high seas.
In general, for the next 5 years we plan to implement 200 projects, within the framework of which 50 thousand jobs will be created, the minister said.
On behalf of the regional council of veterans, he awarded veterans the Order of Merit to the Fatherland with the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
we held active negotiations with the equipment supplier, held a tender and agreed on the estimated cost of this equipment. we have negotiated with the supplier of equipment , held a tender , agreed about the cost of this equipment .
at the very beginning, of course, it is difficult - a new situation, a new team, especially teenage houses. in the beginning it is always difficult because of the new conditions , new team , especially the guys are away from home .
During the working trip at the end of last week, the head of state gave a good assessment of the development of Almaty. during the last working visit the head of state gave a good estimate of the development of almaty .
The country has a good mood, "said the political scientist.
this means that Kazakhstan has become not only the geopolitical center of the world, but also the world political and economic center, of course, Kazakhstan should become the center of world art in the future, "the minister said.
we have specific projects. we have the concrete plans .
In Battakova, she noted that special health schools are actively working.
Last year, a major overhaul of the rural house of culture "bidaikol" was carried out.
unlimited emissions of this gas are Kazazot LLP and local residents, "he added.
Around the year, the issue of transferring facilities to investors should be resolved, "said the head of the rdsdo Investment Project Center.
As part of the festival, representatives of ethnic and cultural associations of the Bashkirs "Salavat" organized a sports event "Wrestling."
we are confident that Kazakhstan's independence has become the greatest sign of historical justice. " Denisenko.
congratulated Latvia on the successful start of the presidency of the Council of the European Union.
Also, in accordance with these changes, the executive director can appoint up to 2 deputies for himself, "the committee on international affairs, defense and security noted.
like all Kazakhstanis, our team connects its future only with you. our stuff , like all people of kazakhstan , associates the future only with you .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also congratulated the trade union on the outcome of the negotiations in Lausanne, achieved by the fruitful work of Iranian foreign policy.
The senator stressed the importance of this visit, which will give a new impetus to bilateral relations and increase the basis of legal consent between Kazakhstan and Lithuania.
J. Kerry expressed condolences to Nursultan Nazarbayev in connection with the appointment of the President of Kazakhstan.
I hope that this "bridge" will be strong enough to establish bilateral ties.
After six months, language training will continue abroad.
we intend to further deepen our strategic cooperation and good-neighbourly relations with the People's Republic of China. " Nazarbayev.
As the head of the NPP noted, the key to the successful development of entrepreneurship is the professional state apparatus, qualified services for business and the population.
this is my first visit, Kazakhstan is my second homeland, the people here are very hospitable.
This year has become a great holiday for our country. this year will be a jubilee for the kazakh country , it will celebrate the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .
firstly, in the field of cooperation, the personnel reserve of the clinic is differentiated. under the cooperation first of all the analysis of human resources of the clinics is carried out .
According to him, in this regard, the time of work was freed up and postal workers began to work in another direction.
people expect from theater and cinema, from the general art of sincerity, morality. people are waiting for nobility , honor , dignity and compassion from theatres and cinema .
The Ambassador noted the readiness to develop mutually beneficial and equal cooperation with Kazakhstan.
despite this, the soldiers completed all the tasks of the camp training camp and improved their skills.
The medical train team includes doctors who received the main specialty: a therapist, a pediatric doctor, a neuropathologist, an eye doctor, an eared doctor, a gynecologist, a surgeon, a urologist, a mammologist, and a dentist.
On December 18 and 21, 2014, the World Speed ​ ​ Skating Championship among students was held in Alma-Ata. from 18 to 21 december almaty hosted world speed skating championships among students .
the business program of the forum includes business sections to discuss the development of the tourism industry, the metallurgical cluster, industry, financial infrastructure and other relevant issues,
Kazakhstan's political and economic reforms can be expanded and used in all countries of Central Asia, "the expert said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the conversation Lebanese viewers were awarded the prize of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Kazakh feature film "Sky of Childhood," which tells about Nazarbayev's childhood and youth.
As the head of state noted, all conditions are created for young people, and the road to them is always open.
The Group is ready to support Kazakhstan as a strategic partner in the field of regional and global security, to provide assistance in the field of nuclear disarmament.
the president of the country must conduct the right policy, I made my choice and I am sure that he is right.
As part of the event, the project "Frozen Water for Rural Children" was launched.
currently provides dno colocation and hosting services.
for the first time, we have witnessed unhindered, full participation of people in elections. for the first time , we have witnessed such an unprecedented voting turnout in the elections .
we have many projects in common.
project cost is 37.5 billion tenge.
The prince highly appreciated the achievements and activity of our country in the international arena, welcomed the intention of Kazakhstan to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
I want to assure that France supports your efforts aimed at ensuring stability and good-neighbourly relations with the countries of Central Asia, as well as improving the socio-economic situation of the region, the congratulation says.
The water level in the village is declining, so residents are given the opportunity to visit their homes, "said A. Sovetov.
As the head of the region noted, if there are interesting business projects, then Irtysh can be considered through the blue white line.
our goal is clear, the goal is one, we proved it by giving our vote and demonstrating unity, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
In addition, in 2014, 12 out of 17 projects totaling 323 million tenge were implemented within the framework of the Agrobusiness 2020 sectoral republican program.
aa. Kazykhanov called on leading British companies to take an active part in the exhibition, "the statement said.
In addition, an exchange of views was held on the further expansion of trade, economic and investment cooperation.
in general, the use of new technologies and the use of "know-how" in the framework of the program will improve the economy, increase the service life, reduce the cost of development of deposits.
Akim of Akkol region V. Eliseev, managing director of JSC "Astana expo-2017" the triumph of rakhimbekov, head of tourism department of Akmola region shynarbek batyrkhanov, president of the Union of Ecology "nature" and Association of enterprises of Kazakhstan mels eleusizes take part in it.
the special geographical position of Kazakhstan and Hungary and a place in international organizations "will contribute to our countries in conducting strategic partnership and cooperation," said the head of the government of Kazakhstan.
however, according to Dzhaksybekov, it is necessary to take into account the current situation in the world economy and proceed from the tasks of the president's message "bright path."
According to the director of the maksut makhanbetov company, with the support of the state, entrepreneurial activity was able to widely use its opportunities in business.
Participants of the event expressed interest in discoveries and international initiatives in the cultural and social life of the country, including the upcoming V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, special mobile groups will be created for these purposes, which will include employees of the regional departments of the Committee of Labor, Social Protection and Migration of Kazakhstan and employment centers.
The Kazakh delegation was headed by presidential adviser - Secretary of the Security Council nurlan Yermekbayev.
prospects for joint projects in the field of investment activities were also considered.
thus, trade restrictions may be imposed with the Republic of Kazakhstan on groups of goods that cause economic damage to domestic enterprises.	in particular , kazakhstan can introduce the trade restrictions on those product groups for which there is economic damage to the domestic enterprises .	1,12
Now we are collecting applications and forming a delegation of regions, "says Robert Yusupov, head of the department of international and interregional cooperation of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Kostanay Region.
and "successfully" allows you to work at great depths.
there will be joint work in all key areas.
At the same time, the head of the department noted that 222 thousand people work in his organization, and 50% of them are in rural areas of the country.
A participant in the Battle of Stalingrad, a holder of the Order of the Red Star, awarded the medal "For Courage," the badge "Police Excellence" 97-year-old jur of mare complained about the lack of a stroller necessary for walking along the street with his grandchildren.
Members of scientific and methodical council, responsible specialists of Presidential Administration, the Administration of the President of RK, calculating committee, agency on affairs of public service and anti-corruption and also representatives of the Ministries of Justice, the culture and sport, national economy, health care and social development and some other bodies participated in an action.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the political triumph of the president of the country, directing the main policy of the country, "he said.
now we are discussing the choice of a judge at the first stage, "said Z. Balieva.
It is also planned to invest 682.1 million tenge in dairy processing enterprises this year.
The project cost of 370 million tenge, as well as this project served as the basis for opening 31 workplaces, the Governor's office reported.
Only then can we say that we will be a prosperous and peaceful "eternal country" that will create conditions for the good life of our citizens, "the head of state said in an interview with reporters.
The two-day training seminar was held in East Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and Mangistau regions.
construction works are carried out with the participation of international financial institutions (khki).
Also, Nursultan Nazarbayev and the good night discussed topical issues on the international agenda.
the greatest deficit is observed with growth in the cities of rides, in the areas of zyryans, urjar, deep.
In this regard, the head of state drew attention to the fact that many joint ventures of the two countries are working, and noted that this will continue in the future.
It is expected that by April 25 such medals will be awarded to all war veterans and rear workers.
In order for these technologies to be introduced into the most successful projects, the state must adhere to an effective policy in the construction of houses or repair work, "concluded the head of the Center for Energy Efficiency of the 20th Century.
To ensure the 6% growth of Kazakhstan's economy, we need to create 10,000 jobs. In order to provide a 6% growth of Kazakhstan's economy, we need to provide up to 10,000 jobs.
work is underway in this direction.
without a strong cultural pillar, as the experience of actively developing world nations shows: Japan and European countries, southeast Asian bars, state economic and political success is impossible in the world.	the experience of the most dynamic nations of the world : the us , japan and europe ,  tigers " of south-east asia demonstrates that without a solid culture the modern world can 't reach the economic and political success .
Representatives of the National Registration Center LLC and the Kazakhstan Association of Evaluation Bodies, test laboratories and industry institutes took part in it.
In this regard, the heads of three companies and the ordinary ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Shokybayev also met with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Internal Affairs of the country Sheikh Abdullah and the Nasser and Caliph al-Thani, discussed the prospects of this project and other relevant issues of Kazakh-parallel relations.
and each such joyful army provides for special gratitude.
in the south of Kazakhstan, 2-3 hours of solar energy are produced per year, which any country cannot boast. south kazakhstan produces 2-3 thousand hours of sunshine for a year .
aviation doctors provided medical assistance in cases where obstetrics and gynaecological, infant and paediatric pathology, the circulatory system, surgical, therapeutic diseases, injuries, burns and poisoning, traffic accidents were affected.
by the level of a chemical accident, rescuers of the Republic of Belarus were ahead of everyone.
in turn, a. Uzumju thanked for the active participation and support of Kazakhstan in the work of the organization.
at the congress, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev presented the concept of "A Nation of a United Future."
the portal contains information on 3D tours of videos on Kazakhstan, the history and culture of the country, interesting events and the life of ordinary Kazakhstanis.
the measures we take, including in the framework of legislation on administrative offences, have yielded positive results. the measures that we have taken , including within the framework of administrative law show the positive results .
this is one of the highest rates among government agencies. "
this intensified the scientific process on the scale of the republic, "said T. Balykbaev.
in addition, Kazakhmys is one of the largest silver producers in the world.
the second direction of the program, aimed at the development of livestock, is designed to implement large projects.
in turn, 9.6 billion tenge was allocated for the development of local roads, transport infrastructure of streets of rural settlements and the city of aktobe.
In accordance with the consular charter of the Republic of Kazakhstan, consular offices protect the rights and interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan, its legal entities and citizens within the framework of international law.
At the end of the event, veterans will tour military ranks on the fronts, "said S. Ordabaev.
at the same time, the certification of battalion commanders (divisions), their deputies and officers equated to them was completed. previously certification of officers of the battalion ( division ) , their deputies and their equal was completed .
According to the director of the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies Yerlan Karin, for Kazakhstan the development of transport infrastructure and the expansion of transport corridors has always been a strategic issue.
the first creative clusters are aimed at developing individual spheres of culture and art, creating a creative environment, "the minister said.
In accordance with the plan, the creation of new jobs will be carried out within the framework of state programs, projects aimed at developing the region and supporting small and medium-sized businesses.
During the meeting, the possibility of further development of bilateral cooperation was considered.	the sides considered prospects of further bilateral cooperation .	1,13
addressing the audience, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that today the doors for the citizens of the country are open to the whole world, but Kazakhstan remains the place where everyone is trying to return.	addressing to the audience , president nursultan nazarbayev said that today 's the whole world is opened for the citizens of our country , but kazakhstan is the place where everyone wants to go back .	1,13
today, as you can see, our country has gladly met the victory of the president in the elections, "he said.
first of all, this will be based on operators, machine builders, welders-assemblers, drivers and trains, "said K. Varibekov.
our goal is technological and innovative re-equipment.
At the same time, cement production doubled and reached 4 million tons.
if earlier 35% discounts were issued only 44 to 40 days before the departure of the train, now 35% of preferential trains can be used when receiving tickets 10 days before departure and 20% when receiving a ticket 2 days before the departure of the preferential train.
they said goodbye to their relatives for a year and for the first time passed in a single formation from the site of the military unit.
for work on the anthology of videos the materials collected by Nr Otan party are used: documents, letters of heroes, prize sheets; footage and archival pictures from newsreels; encyclopedias, historical literature, periodicals and others.
the implementation of the new program will create 20-30 competitive domestic companies.
safflower oil is exported to countries such as Russia, Georgia, Iran, Kazakhstan, China, "the report said.
On April 26, 2015, the Kazakh diplomat got acquainted with the campaign before the extraordinary presidential elections in the country, the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "bright path," the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation.
bilateral meetings of Kazakhstani and Singaporean entrepreneurs in b2b format are also planned.
Recall that by the decree of the head of state, 2015 was declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the main activities of this complex are water treatment, carbon dioxide baths, inhalation, laser therapy, heliotherapy, massage, acupuncture, heat treatment, etc.
The People's Heritage Program provides for the phased introduction of the largest and most sustainable companies of the state to the stock market.
The 7th international competition of special masked groups warrior-2015 will be held from April 19 to 23 at the Amman special operations training center of King Abdullah II.
The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan in its activities will maintain contacts with all organizations most open and interested in conducting the election campaign, in accordance with the norms of the electoral legislation, "he said.
B. Netanyahu wished Kazakhstan further success along the path of economic prosperity.
the exhibition will be held for the first time in Central Asia and the CIS and will give a powerful, new impetus for the preparatory work on the use of alternative, renewable energy, will provide a platform for the presentation of the best world technologies, will contribute to the introduction of energy-efficient programs, "said the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Commissioner of the international specialized exhibition" Expo-2017 "rapil zhoshybayev.
our first project is the construction of the Kazakhstan section of the Western Europe-Western China corridor, "the total length of which is 8 thousand kilometers, and the length of the carriageway through Kazakhstan is about 3 thousand kilometers.
According to K. Tokayev, Kazakhstan is grateful to China for significant assistance to international initiatives in the country, including the convening of a meeting on interaction in Asia and confidence-building measures.
It should be noted that last year was a year of abundance for Kyzylorda rice farmers.
today I have a festive mood.
Europe, America and Asia.
At the end of the solemn meeting, the soldiers-winners were presented with memorable gifts and letters of thanks on behalf of the Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
thus, kdb began to implement the second tranche of funds allocated from the national fund to finance projects in the manufacturing industry under the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
Within three days, military doctors summarize the results of medical and preventive work at all levels of military medicine, exchange experience, and increase theoretical knowledge, "the report said.
At the suggestion of imperial, it is planned to build a module for the generation of electricity based on solar and terminal energy.
we are now studying and discussing these issues during the forum, "the deputy said.
The armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan are not represented in many areas. the armed forces of kazakhstan are not represented in many regions .
According to the company's representatives, the decision to create production in Kazakhstan was made thanks to the attractive investment climate in the country and the good development of the rehabilitation system infrastructure.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the country predicted such a development of the situation and developed appropriate measures to overcome negative phenomena.
Also, in order to determine the accuracy of coordinates up to 2 meters in real time in the service radius of the post up to 300 kilometers of the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea for marine services, such as engineering, hydrographic, bathymetric research and marine navigation, the global navigation satellite system will provide a local marine differentiated station for signaling.
he highly appreciated the activities of the joint commission on economic cooperation between the government and private sectors of Kazakhstan and Japan.
During the meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries, the state and prospects of bilateral and multilateral cooperation on a wide range of issues were considered.
The head of state noted the steady economic growth of the West Kazakhstan region, solving social issues, improving the well-being of families.
the memorandum is aimed at improving technical cooperation in the implementation of the issue of sustainable energy development in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, we propose to create a single information base that will clearly inform about the competitions, "he said.
According to K. Tokayev, it is necessary to attract qualified young specialists of Kazakhstan to the work of the steam system, and a program of paired development can play a useful role in this important matter.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the West Kazakhstan region includes leaders of ethnocultural and religious associations, deputies of maslikhats, representatives of state bodies, educational institutions, public and youth organizations, entrepreneurs.
in schools and colleges, guardianship councils are created (2015 - 45%, 2020 - 60%).
establishing dialogue and launching a platform for cooperation within the EU-eo format can be a fruitful opportunity for mutually beneficial interaction, "he said, adding that a similar initiative of the President of Kazakhstan is supported by the leadership of leading European countries, including Germany, France and other states.
According to the results of exit polls, the results of presidential candidates were summed up: n.nazarbayev - 97.5%, dyzdyks - 1.87%, a.kusain - 0.63%.
summing up the results of the meeting, B. Saparbayev noted the need for high-quality and timely completion of the construction of the Student Games 2017 facilities, which are constantly in the center of attention of the head of state.
now we occupy a leading position in the export of flour, uranium, chromium in the world, "the head of state said.
saving additional budget funds, "V. Dodonov said at the round table.
Thus, Hungary has become another country that has created a full legal basis for cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of criminal proceedings.
From March 16 to April 24 of this year, mobilization groups covered 521 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting 1,085 times, including 11 unscheduled ones.
The head of state openly expresses his opinion in connection with world events, all this proves that the head of state deserves to be the leader of Kazakhstan and be the president of Kazakhstan. the head of state always comment the world events all this proves that the president deserves to be the leader of kazakhstan to become the president of the republic of kazakhstan .
The tenge fund of the festival amounted to 2.5 million tenge.
on behalf of all the agrarians of the country, I declare that our voice is with you. "
the first stage will be held from April 6 to 17, the second - from June 15 to 26.
Within a month, the city will be landscaped and landscaped, the territories of social facilities of the capital, as well as metropolitan parks and mini-gardens will be cleared.
Kazakhstan is a crucial transport link between Europe and Asia in terms of geographical location. because of its geographical position , kazakhstan became a key transit hub between europe and asia .
we must not only be responsible for the opening of enterprises and the employment of the population, but also ensure their social well-being. we , businessmen , took the responsibility not just to open a business and employ people , but also to ensure their social well-being .
this will give a new impetus to the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Kazakhstan and will work to improve the business and investment climate.
In particular, these are special laws in the field of state regulation of certain sections related to production, subsoil use, transport, trade, excise products, "the Vice Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan explained.
Also, during a teleconference in Pavlodar, a powder polypropylene granulation workshop of Petrochemicals Ltd LLP was opened.
hospital staff thanked the President of Kazakhstan for creating the necessary conditions for the development of health care, advanced training and exchange of experience in the republic.
As an example, the minister cited Thailand's existing visa-free regime with Japan, Russia, Turkey, Singapore, Bahrain, Brunei, noting that after simplifying visa requirements, Thai tourists' trips to these countries increased 5-6 times.
Thus, last year Kazakhstan took 28th place among 192 countries in the pair ranking with the project "electronic government for citizens," "the minister said.
In fact, 66 objects were put up for sale, 50 objects were sold.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan handed an invitation to the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
as an example, students were presented with newspapers of Tatar, Armenian, Uzbek, Kurdish, Ukrainian, Azerbaijani and other ethnocultural associations of the republic.
this is the first such agreement signed by the United States of America with Central Asian countries.
At the same time, according to Mukhanov, the "Nұrly zhol" program not only develops infrastructure, but also provides new jobs, expands the space of production opportunities of the regions, reduces the costs of small and medium-sized businesses.
As a multinational state, we continue to tolerate national and interfaith harmony, "the head of state said.
Prior to that, he worked in public works, was chairman of the veterans association and a member of the city council of veterans.
This year Kazakhstanis devote our main values, such as independence, freedom, unity and unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
And we will contribute to the implementation of the economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and Strategy-2050, which provides for the entry of Kazakhstan into the number of 30 developed countries of the world, "the letter says.
The organization of production of a large drilling complex for drilling oil and gas wells, the cost of the project - 645 million tenge, Zhigermunaiservis LLP, created 33 new jobs.
In September of this year, the plant will begin to assemble the first tractors, "said Genghis Abishev, general director of Kazakhstan Agro-Innovation Company LLP.
He noted that the volume of production amounted to 6.2 billion tenge, 1,500 jobs were created.
The participants of the seminar were informed that the creation of one of the most important strategic projects for Kazakhstan - the Eurasian Economic Union - provides for the strengthening of regional economic ties.
According to the ministry, the international conference "east forum berlin" is a dialogue platform for organizing regular meetings of political figures and business circles of the CIS, central, southeastern and western Europe in order to openly discuss topical issues of close economic relations.
Petro Poroshenko also congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
Kazakhstan has high transport transit, currently new programs further improve the country's transport transit, and, of course, the economy and the field of roads will develop in such a country.
I know Arabic.
now this type of services is free.
In total, as part of the 2020 Employment Roadmap program, more than 30 thousand citizens were educated on the basics of entrepreneurship, 28.7 thousand people received loans, of which 20 thousand opened their business, and 8.6 thousand expanded their range of interests.
Recall that the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Fundamentally Improving the Conditions of Entrepreneurial Activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" is put into effect on January 1 of this year.
A number of new exercises have been added this year.
Last year, the Ural Plant Zenit joint-stock company put a rocket-artillery ship on the water, transferring two boats for the border service.
This project was developed in accordance with the initiative of the head of state to implement the project "national champions" at an expanded government meeting.
turning the capital into a business, cultural and scientific center of Eurasia, attracting researchers, students, entrepreneurs, tourists from all regions.
The new economic policy has become a barrier to Kazakhstan's economic risks.
our text was on a physical and mathematical profile.
For N. Nazarbayev, according to the deputy, this is only an instrument, the main thing is a person for him.
as a part of the Kazakhstan delegation the vice-minister of national economy Marat Kusainov, the vice-chairman of National Bank Oleg Smolyakov, the vice-Minister of Justice zauresh a baymoldina, the deputy minister on investments and development erlan sagadiyev, the board member of Bayterek joint-stock company Noah and also responsible specialists of the ministries and departments, institutes of development.
It is noted that the cost of the project amounted to 12,900 million tenge, as part of the implementation of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020" the bank subsidized the interest rate on loans in the amount of 4.5 billion tenge.
we must pay attention to the fact that now the whole world is looking for a form of economic growth.
Every year the number of veterans and disabled people of the Great Patriotic War is growing.
we have witnessed these democratic elections. we were witnesses of these democratic elections .
symbolically, both holidays coincide. it is symbolic that the two holidays are following each other .
including a meat processing workshop, a feeding workshop, a vegetable storage facility, a slaughter, a breeding ground, and a reproductive farm.
two directions are already open.
in particular, the possibility of creating a samuryk innovation company on the silicon plain was considered.
The parties signed a memorandum on cooperation and cooperation between the Eurasia trade center and Aktobe entrepreneurs.
"on the commercialization of the results of scientific and (or) scientific and technical activities" with mechanisms for financing the implementation of innovations in production.
the visit of our veterans to Moscow and participation in a military parade is a bright event.
In 2016, 1412 students of 4 classes from 14 regions will take part in the testing of pirls.
At the same time, the business structures of Kazakhstan will strictly comply with the requirements of national legislation and conventions of international labor organizations and work on joining the UN global agreement, "N. Altaev said.
the mood of the population is the main indicator of the state of the country. the public mood is the main indicator of the situation in the country .
Trade turnover between the two countries increased significantly over six years, and in 2014 amounted to 1 billion. Dollars, and trade with all other countries of central Asia amounted to only 75%.
The President of Egypt congratulated the head of state on his historic victory in the presidential election and assumption of office.
we want to establish such cooperation with Saudi Arabia, "said the Minister of Industry and Development.
this experience requires scientific justification.
in printed gardens n. Nazarbayev 14, sizdykova - 4 and a. kusainov - 2 materials, - said in a statement.
These corridors passing through the center of the country will activate the work of all international routes.
it is worth noting that "kegoc" serves as the system operator of the unified electric power system of the Republic of Kazakhstan (bej).
the entry of the state into the Eurasian Economic Union, the measures of the Government of Kazakhstan to further improve the investment climate, the implementation of a forced industrial program, as well as positive changes in the country arouse interest among Thai investors.
work is underway to limit administrative barriers to the activities of the private and communal markets, "the report said.
Also, the Ushbulak-2005 poultry farm, capable of producing 90 million eggs per year, was launched in the area.
We must also get rid of those factors that prevent us from conducting trade and investment, "the minister said.
The budget for 2015 year provides for 1,276, 7 million.
to do this, it is necessary to develop mechanisms for simplifying and stimulating trade, ensuring its transparency and legality, as well as creating effective cooperation institutions on all issues of cooperation, "said Trade Minister Andrei Slepnev.
The financial agency of the Unified Business Support and Development Program "Business Roadmap 2020" is the Development Fund, and the operator is Atameken NPP and akimats.
The main thing for us is not to record violations, but to warn them. the most important thing that we do not want to fix the violations , we want to warn them .
for example, "on entrepreneurship," On state regulation of the development of the agro-industrial complex and agricultural zones. "
The banner of victory, which began its journey from 36 airborne assault brigades of the capital, was visited by military units of all regional commands, said Major General Daulet Ospanov, head of the Almaty garrison.
Every year we move away from the then historical feat. every year we are drifted apart from that heroic time .
On the eve of the New Year, we will meet with their families and present gifts, "said F. Limimenko.
these challenges are developing very actively, measures need to be taken to reflect them, "he said.
according to him, such a program was prepared by the president of Roosevelt in the 1930s.
In the first five-year plan, we laid the legislative and structural foundation.
we plan to hold a congress of mining and metallurgy workers, "said B. Manasbaev.
According to him, Kazakhstan is now making a lot of efforts to overcome the global economic crisis.
16.2 billion tenge of investments were allocated for the project.
the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Lithuania also attended the meetings. Mukhamedzhanov and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Lithuania to Kazakhstan.
In addition, the head of state noted that in order to support domestic demand for the products of domestic companies and create new jobs, it was instructed to begin the implementation of all projects planned under the Nұrly Zhol program.
According to the head of state, this will improve the transparency of customs regulation, administration and will not lead to corruption.
As part of the social project "Looking to the Future," the benefits of oriental massage were seen by 5 citizens with disabilities.
therefore, we will continue to take all necessary measures to improve the qualifications of company commanders and ensure their professional improvement, "said Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev.
more than 644 tons of wool, which is 0.4% less than in 2013.
about the heroism of our glorious officers and soldiers. we all remember the heroism of our brave officers and soldiers .
I wish you good health, happiness, well-being and well-being to the people of Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
Last year Kostanay region implemented projects worth 69.4 billion tenge.
The working session also discussed the participation of the country's leadership in the upcoming bilateral and multilateral international events, main foreign policy priorities, including 2017-2018. promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, the development of official development assistance initiatives, the establishment of an Islamic food security organization headquartered in the capital; establishment of a regional diplomatic hub in Almaty, as well as a number of major events planned in Kazakhstan - Participation of the Ministry in organizing a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, the Astana Economic Forum and the International Media Forum on Peace in the Middle East.
we changed some areas.
It included the youth wing "zhas otan," the republican headquarters "green country," the youth congress, the national kt league and the debater association.
In this regard, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, the concept of developing the gas industry until 2030 is being implemented, a general schedule for gasification of the country is being developed, according to which by 2030 the volume of gasification of the country will increase from 42 to 56%.
Also, as part of the program "development of small cities" this year, it is planned to build the necessary infrastructure for the irrigated massif in the rural zones of ecibastuz and aksu cities.
such conditions are usually formed by the state, especially at the initial stage, "said the vice president.
for example, 479.0 thousand square meters of housing were introduced in the first quarter of this year, or 2.1% more than in the same period last year.
I suffered an injury to my arm, abdomen and pressure in the Polish city of Białystok. i was wounded on the territory of poland in bialystok and got in a field hospital .
of which 2306 bachelors, 3571 undergraduates, 172 specialists, 80 doctors, 134 graduates of internship and graduate studies, 1,411 interns.
The main luck of the company lies in compliance with the strategy of social responsibility, "said B. Kazhiev.
the parties discussed the possibilities of cooperation in the development of clean energy, gas chemistry, transport, medicine, agriculture and education, the dog industry.
and here we surrendered weapons, standards.
for the first time in Kazakhstan, "green" technologies will be used here - a "green" roof, energy-efficient elevators, energy-saving glass, a rainwater reuse plant, parking and charging stations for electric vehicles, special places, locker rooms and washbasins for cyclists.
writing an essay on "Ways of greening" the economy of Kazakhstan through its future profession. "
S-295 crews take part in all exercises held in Kazakhstan and far abroad.
also mineral products 14.2%, chemical products 13.5%, metals and products 13.2%, livestock and crop production and finished consumption 12.1%.
During the meeting with the President of the Institute of Economic Research of the Ifo-Institute in Munich, the hans-werner discussed the intensification of bilateral trade and economic cooperation and the expansion of mutual cooperation on the forecast and assessment of the development of the world economy.
Smailov also noted that in 2015 there are 155 national forms and 51 departmental statistics.
b. baibek also spoke about the party's participation in the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting, the head of state in support of domestic producers announced the start of the "Made in Kazakhstan" action.
this is inter-ethnic harmony, political stability, economic reform and a high level of social security.
its authors are more than 50 amateur artists and professionals from 8 regions of the country, the city of Aktobe and districts of the region.
The new project will actively attract students studying abroad who will participate in the implementation of new projects aimed at attracting investments in the country, building up the country's trade, economic and tourism potential, as well as protecting Kazakhstan's interests at the international level, the national movement said.
During the registration campaign, interviews are held with adolescents who will be informed about the development of the armed forces, the achievements of military service, the participation of the Kazakh army in international exercises, peacekeeping operations.
During the conversation, R. Akhmetov noted that the Astana religious forum has become an authoritative international platform for promoting dialogue of cultures and civilizations and was devoted to the topic "Dialogue of religious leaders and political figures for peace and development" at the V Congress in the capital on June 10-11.
The Speaker of the Senate introduced the guests to the new strategy of economic and political development of the country "Nұrly zhol" and called on Indian entrepreneurs to take an active part in its implementation.
they are free and educated.
Nursultan Abishevich closely monitors the development of all sectors of the capital daily. every day nursultan nazarbayev pays much attention to the development of all spheres of life in the capital .
R.Zhoshybayev handed over the original invitation on behalf of the President of the Republic n.nazarbayev.
The Government has also prepared impact plans and schedules according to the economic situation.
I wish the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and all Kazakhstanis to hold the flag of peace and harmony more firmly, to strengthen the friendship and unity of our people, to work ruthlessly for the benefit of our holy homeland - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we understand that security and stability cannot be shared.
in accordance with the bill, a single coordination center for the management and development of special economic zones will first be created on the basis of kaznex invest.
According to the ambassador, this award is a real indicator of the significant contribution of the head of state to the development of important scientific and engineering projects in the post-Soviet space.
I think that the modernization commission is developing a clear plan for the presidential program and will submit it together with the government within two months, "explained D. Ashimbayev.
at the invitation of the Latvian side, R.Zhoshybayev took part in the international conference "greenbridgeforum2015," organized within the framework of Riga's chairmanship in the Council of the Union of Greeks of the first half of 2015.
today I voted for the first time in the election. today i have voted in the election for the first time .
this year is full of memorable dates - the 20th anniversary of the constitution, the 20th anniversary of the assembly, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
This year, the Governor's Office of the capital plans to allocate funds to visit the burials of heroes of the Great Patriotic War. this year the mayor 's office has decided to allocate funds for visits to places of burial of kazakhstani soldiers who died in the great patriotic war .
they are 39 disabled people of the Second World War and 93 participants, 5 - citizens who worked at enterprises, institutions and organizations of the city during the blockade of the city of Leningrad and were awarded the medal "For the Defense of Leningrad" or the sign "besieged Leningrad"; 11 - former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps; 4507 - persons awarded orders and medals of the former USSR for selfless work and impeccable military service in the rear and who worked from June 22, 1941 to May 9, 1945 for at least six months, during the Second World War, 783 - other categories of persons, "the report said.
He proved that Kazakhstan is a strong, prosperous country in its development. "
According to the Ministry of Defense, the event was attended by specialists from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Tajikistan, who completed a course at the Military Academy of the Russian Armed Forces.
During the conversation, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the high pace of development of bilateral political, economic, educational and cultural relations.
7 objects worth 216.1 billion tenge were legalized.
He expressed confidence that the successful implementation of "Nұrly zhol" will achieve high world standards of economic and social development for Kazakhstan.
According to Murat Amirgaliyev, since 2008 the cooperative has passed certification of iso 9001:2001 standard.
The negotiators expressed satisfaction with the dynamics of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey, stressing the mutual desire to further strengthen the partnership in bilateral and multilateral formats.
The action was attended by executive bodies, large enterprises, entrepreneurs, deputies, ethnocultural associations, branches of the Nұr Otan party.
Joining the number of 30 developed states - our goal and the common fate of all Kazakhstanis - set important tasks for society for the future of the country.
the volume of logging is 200-225 thousand cubic meters, "he said.
a. The sculpture told the Croatian audience in detail about the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan and the measures taken by the capital to support and protect foreign investors.
to do this, we collaborated with an American unique inventor, "he said.
in our country there are many talents. i started to paint with the 5th grade .
volume of mining and processing industry with growth by 6.2%, 102.5 billion tenge, natural volume index - 86.6%.
this is the first law in the post-Soviet space on this topic.
traditional reports of the districts of the capital will be held from February 2 to 9, 2015.
the interlocutors agreed to expand bilateral cooperation.
On their Facebook page, they expressed words that relate to the honor and dignity of presidential candidates.
I came to vote with my family. i came to vote with my family .
This year the Governor instructed to strengthen the work on attracting investments.
in turn, M. and expressed readiness for joint work for the further development of bilateral cooperation.
M. Esenbayev informed about the main directions of the current socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," the jubilee date of 2015 - the 20th anniversary of the National Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, as well as about the measures taken by Kazakhstan to improve the judicial, legal and criminal systems.
we once again demonstrated before the world our democratic form, political culture. we showed the world that kazakhstan 's political culture means unity , responsibility .
The commission included officials, educated specialists, each of whom meets a specific direction, "he said.
they expressed their respect to the veteran, thanked and wished him health.
The volume of industrial production over the past year increased by 2.1% and amounted to 649.1 billion tenge.
winners were awarded medals, diplomas and valuable prizes.
For tennis players of Kazakhstan, this was the only exit to international competitions, "said the executive director of the tennis federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan dias doskaraev.
At the same time, as the head of the NPP board noted, in the case of cooperation with China, the development of the non-resource sector is important for Kazakhstan, and in this case our country is ready to discuss certain aspects of attracting investments.
tree planting is a holiday for veterans and young people, children. planting of trees is a good opportunity to create a feast for veterans , children and youth .
today my children have a special mood. today , the children really feel good .
Currently, there are a number of pilot innovative projects in the region, "said the Governor of the region.
"I was very responsible for the model of solving the global events of our country at any time," he said.
it is necessary to make changes to the relevant amendments, so we must use the right time for the release of samruk-energy, "said Bakhmutova.
this has been facilitated by two major negative trends in the recent world economy.	two main negative tendencies in the world economy contribute this process .	1,14
fourth, related to the creation of new jobs.
primarily from physical, fire, professional, combat training.
The meeting was attended by more than 300 people: members of the political council, the leadership of the central apparatus of the party, members of the Nұr Otan faction in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, first deputy chairmen of the regional branches of the party, members of the central control and audit commission and others.
According to M. Susainov, in the period from 2015 to 2016, projects will be implemented for the construction of the Borzhakty-Ersai railway line and the commissioning of the Kuryk ferry complex in the Mangistau region.
According to him, Kazakhstan needs to create appropriate conditions for the commercialization of scientific projects.
Integration of customs and tax systems.
The celebration of the 70th anniversary of World War II will contribute to the development of Kazakhstani patriotism, "the Secretary of State said.
for example, nato is considered a military bloc, but the state within this organization has relations with all other countries.
futsal, volleyball, table tennis and chess.
The appearance of this document does not call into question the direction received in the country, "he said.
for the qualitative growth and diversification of the economy, we are implementing an industrialization program. to reach quality growth and economy 's diversification the country fulfills industrialization program .
of which 21.2% are in the South Kazakhstan region, 16.3% in the Almaty region, 13% in the Mangistau region, 9.4% in the Zhambyl region, 40.1% in other regions of the country.
the direction of industrialization of your country is associated with a new economic policy "nұrly zhol" in terms of its goals and objectives.
The total amount of investments to expand the port will amount to 27 billion tenge and more than 200 jobs will be created.
During the conversation, it was noted that Kazakh-German relations continue their development in the form of mutually beneficial cooperation and constructive dialogue.
kindergarten is equipped with all requirements.
for foreign observers, the event in our state has become a lesson, "said N. Erimbetov.
the Chinese side highly appreciates friendship and bilateral relations. "
The section has been prepared in Kazakh, Russian and English.
Center for International Programs has launched a new social project aimed at creating a modern communicative online platform among graduates and employers
Tripartite and quadripartite memoranda, cooperation agreements between educational organizations, the regional education department, enterprises, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, and the regional chamber of entrepreneurs are signed.
The amount of the allowance for the birth of the first, second and third children is 58,172 tenge, for the birth of the fourth and more children - 96,953 tenge, the Ministry of Health and Social Development reported.
According to him, the new measures taken by Kazakhstan for the prosperity of economic business will attract foreign investors and open new production.
During the solemn event, the head of state congratulated all veterans and residents of the country on Defender of the Fatherland Day and the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
we were forced to destroy the enemy to protect the east, "the batyr shared.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of active and effective work of the commission.
The Advisory Council of European Prosecutors is an advisory body to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which includes more than 40 member States of the Council of Europe and 5 observer States.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, stressing that today the EU is the largest trading partner of Kazakhstan and the largest investor in the country.
In addition, the ambassador noted the importance of implementing the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - path to the future" and emphasized the relevance of the new economic policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War living in the village of Shayan visited the houses of M.A.Dullaev, B. Igisin.
The meeting participants noted the growth of bilateral trade (according to the results of 2014, trade between the countries amounted to 336.7 million US dollars compared to 2013), but in general the potential of trade and economic cooperation was not revealed.
therefore, at the university, first of all, it is necessary to focus on the development of creativity and critical thinking of students.
According to Tsygenov, from this year the investigation of corruption cases will be strengthened.
According to him, the elections are normal.
Also, taking this opportunity, I urge other member states to join the Iak, "said E. idrissov.
the military council also paid special attention to issues of military discipline and law and order.
Interaction between the authorized bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the body conducting investigations.
Moreover, 5 billion tenge will be allocated to the fund in the form of targeted transfers for capitalization and guarantee of equity deposits, and the remaining 25 billion tenge will be allocated for export financing and lending of the fund in 2016.
we are sure that today there is no other alternative. we are confident there is no alternative .
May the joy, peace, and abundance not escape from your shanyraks! " said the head of state.
young physicists, mathematicians, computer scientists, architects, artists, environmentalists and athletes told the head of the capital about their successes and achievements, shared plans for the future.
products are exported to countries near and far abroad.
At the end of the meeting, the Ambassador of Japan presented the invitation of the Prime Minister of Japan to the Secretary of State. the Second World Women's Conference, to be held in Tokyo in August this year.
The minister thanked veterans for the courage and endurance shown to them during the difficult years of birth.
In this regard, a concept has been developed regarding energy efficiency and energy transmission until 2030, "he said.
representatives of the two countries discussed topical issues of cooperation between the defense departments of the two sides.
As the head of the upper house of parliament noted, Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of comprehensive cooperation with India, which has authority in the modern world.
aa. Idrisov emphasized the role of Hungary in the possibility of cooperation between the EU and the Eo, noting that "Hungary can become one of the bridges that will strengthen relations between the two unions."
your exploits will be a great example for us.
The Head of State noted that the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of culture and art were made possible due to the systemic economic development of the country.
In 2015, according to the decree of the President of Kazakhstan, about 30 thousand people, namely 29 thousand people, should be invited.
According to information, the plant produces 15 thousand tons of sodium cyanide per year, 5 thousand tons of ammonium sulfate.
During the presidential elections in the country, the Institute of Democracy held a nationwide echo poll in all regions, "said Julia Kuchinskaya.
I wish all Kazakhstanis prosperity, tranquillity, well-being and confidence in today and tomorrow!
Another important area of ​ ​ cooperation is the development of the transport and transit potential of the two countries.
the operation of the exposed elevator is organized rationally.
By the decree of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev akim of Astana adilbek dzhaksybekov for valiant work before the state, active social activity and in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, the order "Parasat," veterans of the war, slow, abdrakhmanovka, bekenovka, Vladimir kalsina, Maria Poltoratskaya, chairman of the branch of the Veteran organization handed the Order an Ameda in the Order a.
entrepreneurship is developing, 250 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises work in the region, which have produced products worth more than 53 billion tenge.
Former Prime Minister of Spain h.sapatero congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election, focused on the fruitful cooperation of the governments of the two countries and wished prosperity to our country.
644 people, 1707 pieces of equipment, 153 drainage units and 112 swimming units took part in rescue operations and measures to combat water, "said R. Imankulov.
As part of the development of new microdistricts of the city, the construction of a highway with a length of 2.3 km and an estimated capacity of 696 million tenge from 12 to 19a of the microdistrict has begun, "he said.
This seminar testifies to Kazakhstan's readiness for international cooperation as a sovereign young country, "said the dean of the Higher School of Public Policy of Nazarbayev University Nill Collins.
Today, a historic event is taking place in the country - national presidential elections. today , the country has held very important historical event - the national presidential elections .
Introduction of compulsory social health insurance.
the construction of the gas turbine station is in full swing, preparatory work has been carried out, "the representative of the ministry concluded.
In 2014, the airports of the capital, Kokshetau, Petropavlovsk, Kostanay, Shymkent, Kyzylorda were transferred to the trust management of the airport management group for a period of 7 years.
The Constitution guarantees and supports every citizen of our country. the constitution is the guarantor and the support of every citizen of our country .
In the 4th quarter of 2014, 44 credit institutions were engaged in microcredit services, of which 31 were microcredit organizations and 13 were credit partnerships.
Kazakhstan, for its part, condemns any form of terrorism and extremism that pose a threat to international security, "the telegram says.
at the same time, elections in Washington, New York and Ottawa will end on April 27 this year at 6 a.m. Metropolitan time.
Recently, we have strengthened cooperation with Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries, "Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a press conference.
the growth of the role of the capital and Ankara in regional and global politics and the growth of authority in the Muslim, Turkic world.
Note that at the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, proposed 5 institutional reforms - there is a model for the formation of a "nation of one future" in the concept.
in this regard, the interlocutors expressed interest in expanding and strengthening ties between the business circles of the two countries, including through the chambers of commerce and industry.
our goal is to achieve accelerated delivery of cargo by passing 1.5 thousand km, "he said.
for Spain, Kazakhstan is the main partner.
The head of the multinational family expressed his opinion about the holiday.
Youth 20-25 are those who implement the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
such a method will eliminate all violations, "said M. Rekas.
this is the highest growth among sectors of the economy, "said the head of the department.
The Kazakh Minister called on his European colleagues to consider in detail the newly opened opportunities for representatives of European business as a result of the implementation of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," called on European companies to implement a strategic plan for the development of the country's transport, industrial, energy infrastructure, as well as take part in the "expo-2017."
we, deputies of the Senate of Parliament, are confident that the holding of early presidential elections will contribute to strengthening peace, unity and harmony in our country, "said K. Tokayev.
many of you are associated with independent Kazakhstan.
the number of livestock in all categories of farms was: cattle - 4,985 heads, sheep and goats - 3,612 heads, horses - 1,031 heads, camels - 1,339 heads, the report said.
In accordance with the strategic documents extended until 2020, the Kazakhstan transport system will be brought to a new level of quality, "he said.
They officially stated that they intend to participate in 3 more international organizations, and I think that we will still register many states that will be about 60-70 countries, "he added.
The Kazakhstan g-global initiative is to find effective ways out of the global financial and economic crisis by attracting scientists from all over the world, talented youth, representatives of media, public and business structures.
The proposed project will ensure the full development of 1300 MW of electric energy in Central Asia in the summer, the head of the department said.
six tank crews (three main, three spare) will be identified here, who will begin preparations for the "tank biathlon 2015" and will speak on behalf of Kazakhstan at these large-scale international competitions.
And also the introduction of "green" technologies in villages and cities, "said A. Suleimenov.
in the context of the difficult economic situation in the world, Kazakhstan is dynamically developing and is achieving significant success. in a difficult global economic situation , kazakhstan is developing dynamically , achieving great success that makes us happy " - the president of turkey said .
more than 200 journalists from 37 countries reported on the presidential election in Kazakhstan.
in addition, the muratbek takambayev met with war veterans Nikolai Vasilyevich Kuznetsov and Alevtina Ivanovna Gerasimova.
at the initial moment, preparation was underway. at first there was a preparation .
204.8 million tenge was allocated through the non-governmental sector as part of the state social order.
episodes have a visual impact of 2d and 3d graphics with archived video frames.
According to N. Nazarbayev, next year we will open the doors of a huge market that will allow us to increase our capacity.
Within the framework of the festival, performances of such domestic and modern authors as akhtans, m.baygut, s.orunbai, a.ashiri, j.soltiev will be presented.
The support measures used in the framework of the Productivity Program 2020 will be provided within the framework of two tasks: "modernization of existing industries and the launch of new industries" and "maintenance of entrepreneurial facilities."
in this regard, Kazakhstan, as a dynamic state, has formed its image of an effective world structure in the 21st century.
SMEs amounted to 59,215 units, including 7,928 legal entities, 5,1278 individual entrepreneurs and 9 peasant farms.
Today, the relatives of the veteran, that is, 7 children, 16 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren, are waiting for the 100th anniversary of their grandfather.
During the meeting, topical issues of bilateral and international level were discussed, the press service of the Majilis reports.
I want to emphasize that this is based on the principles of respect for sovereignty, economic pragmatism, equality and openness. i would like to emphasize respect for sovereignty , economic pragmatism , equality and openness are the basis of the eurasian economic union .
A good potential for the further development of the region's economy is provided by the newly created Eurasian Economic Union with a common market for goods, services and capital, which provides wide opportunities for trade and economic development of the region.
He noted that the event will be invited to lead regional and city, regional and city maslikhats, heads of regional departments, khazko members, representatives of ethnocultural associations, political parties and non-governmental organizations, heads of the council of veterans, the council of mothers, the media and students.
As part of the State program of forced industrial-innovative development for 2010-2014, 15 investment projects worth 79 billion tenge were implemented in the city in 2010-2013, 2704 new jobs were created.
at this stage, a stake in Kazakhstan airports was transferred to the trust management of amg.
we were at the polling station for which Nursultan Nazarbayev voted, and we noticed the good mood of the majority there. we were in the voting station where nazarbayev has voted , and we watched very good atmosphere .
According to the head of state, the initiative of the "economic belt of the silk road," which the head of China first raised in the capital, is of particular importance, and Kazakhstan was one of the first to support this initiative.
a.shokybayev spoke about Kazakhstan's achievements in the political, economic and social spheres since independence.
The development of the Minsk protocol is your merit, "the head of state said.
During the growth, a memorandum was signed between the Governor of the East Kazakhstan region Daniyal Akhmetov, the Chairman of the Board of Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan aibatyr Zhumagulov and the Chairman of the Board of Irtysh akk uk, on the implementation of the construction of a house in eastern Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The capital is the first city in Kazakhstan to open a car brand showroom.
Karim Massim performs the tasks assigned to him, he has the potential, appropriate knowledge, so we trust him with the work begun, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to him, international observers were surprised by the activity of the election participants.
this speaks of the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, that they live in unity, "he concluded.
In turn, Queen Elizabeth II noted the importance of strengthening and expanding ties between the two countries.
this is bureaucracy and corruption, low self-awareness of the people, "he said.
This memorandum will be another step towards improving the quality of services provided in the healthcare system and the socio-labor sector, "said the Vice Minister.
The general special edition showed the interest of the Turkish community in Kazakhstan and the achievements of our country.
We are confident that the election of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament will be an important strategic stage in strengthening Kazakh statehood, the deputy concluded.
as a customer and organizer of housing construction.
the right direction of our fruitful cooperation between Kazakhstan and Italy in traditional energy and other spheres. the fruitful cooperation between kazakhstan and italy in the field of traditional energy is the right direction .
The WTO has not only economic but also political significance for us.
in particular, they discussed the training of specialists in international relations, accompanying translators, personnel exchange between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and foreign institutions, the reserve of diplomatic workers, the transfer of diplomats to the private sector, smart workers centers, international organizations, etc.
The main purpose of the bill is to regulate public relations related to the participation of the national contingent of the Republic of Kazakhstan in peace and security operations (missions) in accordance with international obligations adopted by the republic.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be held simultaneously in the capital and regional centers.
In 2014, for 1,050 recipients of targeted social assistance from 220 families, for 2,457 children from 879 families with children under the age of 18, state assistance was assigned to 376 families, of which 62.8 million tenge was paid from the budget.
So, according to him, today Kazakhstan cement, brick, electrical engineering and metallurgical products and other industries received a long-term order for construction.
their importance is obvious because the country is on the verge of a new level of development.
this application is based on the good sports infrastructure and experience of your country in relation to winter sports, "the letter says.
in accordance with the rules of 1941-1945 70 years of victory in the Great Patriotic War, "the text of the decree says.
our goal is to ensure employment for all.
At the 1st stage, the final price of power companies will be reduced due to lower prices for Ekibastuz State-1 LLP from 8.80 tenge to 8.65 tenge/1 kvz (excluding VAT).
In addition, during the meeting, issues of improving legislation regarding Tajik citizens, migrant workers temporarily working in Kazakhstan were discussed.
We hope that in the near future he will appear in the field of animal husbandry, "he said.
in addition, Abdulrahman al-Zamil noted the need to open direct flights between the two countries for the successful implementation of joint projects.
Congratulations to everyone on the March holiday. i congratulate everybody on nauryz holiday .
These two areas of work, jointly implemented by microsoft Kazakhstan and bgm, are combined into a project to improve the skills of the 21st century.
It is no coincidence that the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions is included in the list of global and regional initiatives in the UNESCO action plan on the implementation of the international decade for the rapprochement of cultures, announced at the initiative of Kazakhstan (2013-2022).
it does not duplicate government programs. it does not duplicate the government programs .
during the reporting period, 9 masters of sports of international class, 35 masters of sports, 122 applicants for sportsmanship were trained, 152 people fulfilled the standards of the first category.
we pay great attention to the trans-Caspian direction. we pay great attention to the development of a trans-caspian direction .
In general, he is undergoing the first tests today.
According to him, the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan will begin to regulate this system of relations.
More than 500 out of 90% of thousands of registered voters voted.
The share of new investment projects launched within uiid mb in the total volume of industrial products in 2014 amounted to 15% or 181.8 billion tenge.
today we observe the activity of private business in the field of commodity fishing. today , we observe active growth of the activity of the private business in the commercial fishery .
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping also touched upon the main aspects of the international agenda.
According to M. Mukhanov, the implementation of the infrastructure, industrial and innovative development program will certainly have a positive impact on economic growth.
The event was attended by members of the Council - Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus for foreign economic activities within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union Sergey Rumas, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakhytzhan Sagintayev, Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Igor Shuvalov, Chairman and members of the board, representatives of the Republic of Armenia and the Kyrgyz Republic.
in most cases, public authorities are not subject to social projects. social projects are aimed at issues of disadvantaged families , problems of minor children and etc .
During the meeting, topical issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of countering crime, laundering of criminal funds, ensuring law and order, international security were discussed, the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan reported.
they are suitable for each holiday, but often receive a military initiative and often visit the chambers.
The event focused on promising opportunities for strengthening regional economic cooperation and ways to improve the arenas in the context of constructive and pragmatic integration for the sustainable development of Central Asia.
The Polish Ambassador highly appreciated the work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, according to which the Assembly has become an important institution whose activities are aimed at strengthening the unity of the multinational people of Kazakhstan.
as a result of the implementation of the state health program, positive achievements have been achieved. positive results were achieved in the sphere of healthcare as a result of the realization of the state program .
Among those who received a presidential scholarship are the valiant Suleimen, Myrzatai Zholdasbekov, Bibigul Aulegenov, Khasangaliyev's escender, Vladimir Tolokonnikov, Herald Belger, Asanali Ashimov, Yuri Pomeranets, Sherkhan Murtaza, Akim Libra, anatoly young and others.
currently provides dno colocation and hosting services.
delegates got acquainted with the tragic history of Soviet nuclear tests in Kazakhstan, the contribution of our country to the process of nuclear disarmament, as well as consistent steps aimed at strengthening the deterrence regime and achieving significant progress in the field of global nuclear disarmament, the ministry noted.
Recall that today in the capital, the international energy agency signed a memorandum of understanding and further cooperation with the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan and kazenergy.
Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, providing official support to Kazakh participants.
our plant at the first and second stages of the program of forced industrial-innovative development improves its development trend.
representatives of Austrian companies expressed interest in cooperation in such areas as facility management, hospital design and management, transfer of new technologies. during the meeting , the representatives of austrian companies have expressed interest in cooperation in the spheres : facility management , planning , design and management of hospitals and transfer of new technologies .
order should depend, firstly, on trade, transportation, and the movement of resources. the rules should be related to trade , transport , and movement of resources .
At the same time, I want to note that we can take part in the competition of the cheapest pavilion of high quality, "said A. Musin.
the development of the air capital is coordinated with the ktz plan for the development of alternative routes, which will more than halve the cost of delivering goods.
The formation of a multicultural personality is carried out through various types of work: gaming activities, thematic classes, independent art work, organization of festive and entertainment programs, the report says.
the organizers of the action are the Richos Borovoye Hotel and the private charitable foundation "precious heritage" of steel compensation.
Special attention was paid to the discussion of practical steps in strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and Russia within the framework of interregional and border cooperation, industrial cooperation, cooperation in the fuel and energy, nuclear and space spheres, monitoring the implementation of the joint action plan for 2013-2015.
According to the results of 2013, the total cost of Kazakh maintenance amounted to 68.5 billion tenge.
According to him, this issue was actively discussed by Kazakh, Russian and Belarusian experts and business associations, now he is interested in deputies of parliament and the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
I wish you the right choice and success, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
a favorable investment climate in the country ensured a large influx of French companies into Kazakhstan.
As the parties noted, in the future we have the opportunity to strengthen cooperation in the field of tourism, oil and gas, agriculture.
According to the bank, 90 apartments will be built in Petropavlovsk, including 45 apartments along the white line of Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan.
bitumen, crushed stone, cement, paint, reinforced concrete structures are produced in the Mangytau region.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked everyone who took part in the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ Eurasian economic integration.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan has created new branches of mechanical engineering: railway engineering, electric locomotive, diesel locomotives, cars, passenger and freight cars.
In general, in the country this year, construction and installation work is carried out on 40 sections with a length of 1300 km. in general , the construction and installation work is carried out on 40 plots with total length of 1,300 kilometers .
This will not affect the objects iid mb and "nұrly zhol," as well as the objects of the exhibition "Expo-2017."
Opening the meeting, the Governor noted the importance of the activities of the "Nazarbayev University" both for the capital and for our country as a whole.
This year, our center marks 20 years, in 15 of which we see wine from the Pkkr company, "says the head of the Shapagat health center.
A lot of work is underway under the "Nұrly zhol" program, within the framework of which we are building roads, industrial facilities, affordable housing.
there is no administrative price, there will be no barriers to trade, "he said.
Francois Hollande congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
we appreciate your great contribution to strengthening friendship, good-neighborliness and partnership, which will unite Russia and Kazakhstan, in the implementation of large-scale economic projects in various areas, the telegram says.
During the meeting, the parties noted with satisfaction the high level of political ties between the two countries and emphasized the importance of developing cooperation in the field of culture.
In addition, the forum discussed the investment opportunities of yuko, the presentation of companies in grain, construction, light industry and mechanical engineering took place.
I am sure that all residents of the republic who are not indifferent to this action will support the idea of ​ ​ creating our unique national cultural value, "B. said at the opening of the Saparbayev action.
The pmi index is formed as a result of an examination of the construction industry, services and production, "the report said.
Recall that today Kazakhstan celebrates the international day for the protection of children.
The second issue considered at the meeting was devoted to the work of the courts during the extraordinary elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, this year practical work will continue, which will be devoted to engineers, employees of the medical and scientific and pedagogical industries.
since last year, we have improved the export of milk and meat. since last year we notice a positive trend in the export of dairy and meat products .
I want to congratulate all Kazakhstanis on this wonderful holiday. i want to congratulate all people of kazakhstan on this wonderful holiday , as i understand , it 's a holiday of bright , holiday of kindness , your new year , " the ambassador congratulated .
The second stage of the exercise will be held in June this year.
We will continue to work in international organizations, "the president said.
the budget should be decided in an open manner, with the participation of representatives of public organizations and individuals. the budget appointment should be open to people , non-governmental organizations .
we noticed that everything is ready and planned. we managed to see that everything was planned and prepared , people have learned how to hold elections at the proper level .
According to the author of the coat of arms, this proposal was initiated by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the chairs of "UNESCO" and the research institute "ethnoarchitecture" in the direction of modernization and development of the lifestyle of Kazakh society.
We ask you, mercenaries, authorized state bodies and samruk-kazyna:
its area is 294 hectares, this is more than 1/3 of the area.
Issues of development of magnesita company's activities in Kazakhstan were considered during the conversation between Karim Massimov and the vice-president of the company Zelber Dettonier to Nashimento.
The volume index for the transport industry in January 2014 amounted to 107%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the government and local executive bodies should constantly analyze the economic situation in the country and in the markets of our main trading partners, take measures if necessary.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also visited the exhibition halls with archaeological, ethnographic, historical and cultural monuments of Kazakhstan from ancient times to the present day.
Mayor of the city congratulated the new residents on the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War and thanked the veterans for valiant work, wished them health and well-being.
we veterans lived at different times. we fought for country , for the sake of the free life of future generations .
thanks to the unity and stability of the multinational people, Kazakhstan has achieved great success. thanks to the unity and stability of the multi-ethnic people , kazakhstan has made great strides .
Recall that today the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has opened in all regions of the country.
over the past 5 years, the number of main complaints has decreased by 33% and in 2014 amounted to 3.2 per 100 thousand people (in 2009 - 4.8 per 100 thousand people).
I have been dealing with this topic for many years, I can professionally evaluate this document.
In order to equalize the regional economic and demographic imbalance, the Employment Road Map 2020 programme is taking measures to increase the mobility of people, as well as the development of educational infrastructure in the northern and eastern regions of the country.
The First Deputy Prime Minister held a meeting on supporting domestic producers with the participation of heads of central state bodies, national companies and representatives of the business community, according to the official website of the Prime Minister.
on the one hand, this is a tribute to the parents who raised you, those who raise you, "the president said. during the ceremony of awarding the title in the Nazarbayev acord.
according to him, love for the homeland begins with the family.
small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is an integral part of the economy of the East Kazakhstan region and the main fund of the region.
this suggests that our society supports democratic values, as well as peace and tranquillity on our land, "the presidential candidate added.
we fully agree with state policies.
we will revise transport cost standards and optimize other costs, "said the CEC chairman.
President's Permanent Council, Nazarbayev's program, a plan for the implementation of five institutional reforms and a national commission for renewal created for this purpose.
according to the level of education over 15 years old (high 52.6%, unfinished high 8.1%, average special medium 21.5%, total medium 11.8%, incomplete medium 4.5% and not indicating education 1.5%).
scientific research is envisaged for the effective implementation of this work.
Even if 50 out of 100 steps are implemented, Kazakhstan will be represented to other states as a country that has implemented a big plan, "Mr. Gref said.
According to the TZh committee, the implementation of the state program for the construction of roadside medical and rescue points was completed ahead of schedule for a year.
At the 2nd stage, tariffs for kegoc JSC, energy transmission organizations, will be reduced.
having reached a high level of food in the country, Kazakhstan is increasing the level of food supply worldwide.
In October last year, the authorities of Kazakhstan and the French aviation industry held talks.
In accordance with article 41, paragraph 3-1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I decide:
As reported, the purpose of the contest "Workshop" of the artist "on the skin" is to develop the aesthetic and ethical culture of teachers in the field of education of the Akmola region, to promote additional education through decorative and applied arts.
President of the Turkic Academy, Nursultan Nazarbayev, wished health and well-being, noting that he was at the head of the integration of Turkic countries.
During the meeting with the Lithuanian Chancellor, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and the upcoming visit of the Lithuanian Prime Minister to Kazakhstan in May this year.
Since the beginning of the year, inflation has amounted to 1.1%, with 3.3% for the same period last year.
Every year, the economy loses its position and is in a desperate situation. year after year , this sector of the economy has been losing ground .
The total volume of targeted transfers from the republican and regional budgets in 2015 amounted to 3,425,938 thousand tenge. the total amount of targeted transfers aimed at stepnogorsk from the national and regional budgets for 2015 amounted to 3,425,938 thousand tenge .
According to the Director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of South Kazakhstan region, Kazakhstan managed to establish high-level economic cooperation with this country.
We must determine the tasks set in the framework of Strategy-2050, "he said.
there is demand, we must continue to increase it, "the deputy said.
Transturservislord LLP is interested in the construction of an intercity bus station for 8-10 thousand passengers in the city of Kyzylorda in 2015-2017.
the only city in Kazakhstan with a metro is Almaty. almaty is the only city in kazakhstan that has a metro station .
During the meeting, Valentina thanked German leader Nursultan Nazarbayev for her attention and support.
The chairman of the central bank, speaking about the financial system of the state of Qatar, noted the need to develop bilateral cooperation with our country in the financial sphere, including Islamic banking.
The National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan through the exhibition "Saryarka - the golden cradle of steppe civilization" opens the project "Kazakhstan from the bowels of the ages," implemented as part of the state program "cultural heritage."
Alexander Lukashenko congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
topical issues on the international agenda were also raised.
In addition, in order to discuss bilateral economic and investment projects, it is planned to include Chinese entrepreneurs in the delegation and organize a visit to Kazakhstan.
In turn, he thanked the President of Kazakhstan for the invitation and conveyed greetings to the Hungarian people.
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted the high level of mutual understanding and cooperation achieved between the parties, as well as the significant contribution of the pair's development program to the process of socio-economic modernization of Kazakhstan.
The head of state was informed about the activities of the museum, which intends to become a modern intellectual center, which will analyze and evaluate the historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan.
these are citizens of Central Asia, Turkey, other states.
Child Protection Day is a special day for them.
12 veterans who arrived at the solemn event were awarded medals "70 years of Victory" and monetary certificates.
this is a celebration of the eternal glory of our heroes, "said the deputy chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General Mukan dusekeev.
According to him, yesterday's session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan reached a new level, now the slogan will become "a big state - a big family."
During the visit, Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea Cho Jol, President of the Korean tourism organization Chu Juice and Executive Vice President of the Agency for Trade and Investment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan said.
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis on a bright holiday - March. i want to congratulate all kazakhstani people on nauryz .
in fact, 64 objects were put up for sale, 48 objects were sold.
In addition, the head of state noted that efforts are being made to cooperate with the countries of the European Union, which are the leading trade, economic and investment partners of Kazakhstan.
until the issue is resolved, including liability for all facts of illegal interference in the business, appropriate measures will be taken, "he added.
On the concert stage dedicated to veterans of the Great Patriotic War, soldiers-internationalists, servicemen of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, pupils of the school of young Ulan-Ude, long-awaited victory songs were heard.
The event was organized by the Governor's Office of the North Kazakhstan region together with the Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc."
The national maritime transport company Kazteniztransflot called it timely to resolve the issue of holding elections, taking into account the aggravation of the global economic crisis and the difficult international situation.
He noted that in 2014, 3 higher educational institutions of the region graduated from 5008 graduates.
The main goal of the introduction is the modernization of the social assistance system, the transition to new types of social assistance in order to prevent dependence, the unconditional transition from social assistance to the principle of "mutual obligations" (social contract system).
In October last year, the assets of the production complex were accepted into the balance sheet of the investment fund to pay off the debt of Asian Ceramics LLP.
the site contains several activities, as well as a section on various electoral topics, such as "discussion of candidates," "voter list," "the most active area."
For 5 years, 23 sectoral programs for the development of priority sectors of the economy were adopted, a schedule for the rational placement of production capacities, an industrialization map, 16 territorial development programs, and entrepreneurship support programs were approved.	moreover 23 sectoral programs for the development of the priority economic fields , scheme of rational allocation of production capacity , the industrialization map , 16 territorial development programs , business support programs have been set up .	1,16
ernst & young ".
today we have determined in which direction to move. today we have designated the direction to move .
- In the first five years of implementation of the industrialization program, 770 enterprises were built, 75 facilities were introduced this year alone.
this area is regulated by three laws and combined with international language, but in a customs union some procedures change.
meat production increased by 22.1%, grain - by 19.4%.
works from nearby countries, for example, from Tatarstan. "
and the fate of our people depends on it.
The head of state emphasized that he supports all measures aimed at the peaceful settlement of the situation around Ukraine.
he cried a lot, didn't want to let go, but I ran away.
it's a big responsibility for them.
construction volumes in Pavlodar and Karaganda regions decreased significantly.
the senators also considered the bill "On the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the transfer of convicted persons."
lensannier also expressed satisfaction with the constructive nature of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Ecu.
During the construction, 1000 people worked, now 760 people are employed.
In his speech, he praised the partnership between the state bodies of Kazakhstan and the steam fund: the work of the ministries of health and social development, education and science and the national commission on women's affairs and family and demographic policy under the head of state.
Today, Kazakhstan is one of the main strategic areas of our country - socio-economic modernization and the creation of a modern social state. "
Therefore, I agree that my candidacy will be put forward to achieve further goals, "the head of state said.
In 2015, 33 joint projects are expected to be implemented, "said the Minister of National Economy.
an unprecedented example when the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan receives lessons. model of the assembly of people of kazakhstan , undoubtedly , is a very instructive , unique model .
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Abdel fattah also exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
The team of the Golden Mountain Kokshetau LLP fully supports Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, who has nominated himself for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement says.
we should not stand still, based on our achievements, we should focus on strengthening our statehood, "he said.
This time, crisis events can cover 2015-2016.
According to the regional akimat, in accordance with the Decree of the Republic of Kazakhstan on measures to separate powers between the levels of state administration in Kazakhstan, a division of powers between the central and local levels of government was carried out.
The main purpose of the visit is to attract investments in the economy and infrastructure of Akmola region, expand trade and economic ties, establish partnerships between the regions, the director of the regional chamber said.
Turkish President Recep Erdogan paid a state visit to Kazakhstan.
the growth of public investment affects our economy in two cases, "- said A.Irgaliyev.
Kazakhstan participates in the Human Capital Development Index for the second time.
the study was carried out with the help of the civil alliance of Kazakhstan, "he added.
this competition strengthens conflict relations and contributes to a dangerous trend such as the "right of force" in world politics.
from this year's budget, we are considering and implementing the issue of providing medical services for sorters. this year we are able to budget for medical care of mail sorters , and this year we implement it .
Also, within the framework of this project, the parties signed a memorandum of cooperation between the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" and "Kazpost."
In this regard, Turkey is supporting the Kazakh people, and in this campaign our side will make every effort to support this candidate, "the Turkish republic said.
A very difficult work will be carried out in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
From April 1, the next draft campaign will begin. regular army conscription campaign will be started since april 1 .
the council includes eminent persons of the country and the region.
During the meeting held after the ceremony, the Kazakh diplomat addressed the Danish princess and the Danish people with wishes on behalf of the head of state and expressed confidence in the development of friendly relations between the two states, the statement said.
The high potential of Kazakh-Thai cooperation in trade, transport, logistics and agriculture was noted as part of the implementation of the new economic policy.
In particular, the volume of production exceeded the figures of last year by 1.5 billion tenge.
this is a tribute not only to the hero of the Soviet Union Ivan Panfilov, but also to all Kazakhstanis who fought against fascism, strengthened and returned to the country and contributed to the development of Kazakhstan, the president said.
Kazakhstan today is called spiritual mecca. i can call kazakhstan a spiritual mecca , and this is true .
According to the company, the cargo was distributed in the following areas: Aktau-Makhachkala - 2,677 thousand tons, Baku port (port of sangachal, dubendi) - 1,919 thousand tons of oil, Black Sea - 3,394 thousand tons, Mediterranean Sea - 1,546 thousand tons.
at the same time, instability in world markets, sanctions policy, weakening of confidence between the leading world powers, the threat of aggravation of the political situation will contribute to the process of formation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
at international competitions, a talented athlete releases the name of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and the country.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the event was attended by ex-presidents of the Croatian republic stepan mesich and willow josef, ex-Minister of Foreign Affairs Budimir lunchar, diplomats and representatives of business, academic and public circles.
non-food prices decreased by 0.6%.
On my part, appropriate instructions have been given for interaction with Croatian companies wishing to work with our country, "the head of state said.
Vice-Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland y.Pekhochinsky expressed confidence that Nursultan Nazarbayev will continue his policy aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of the country in accordance with the message "bright path."
13 projects worth 12.8 billion tenge were approved in the manufacturing industry.
Also, disabled people who lost their breadwinner increased by 7% from January 1, 2015, "he said.
To adapt and provide integration services, there is a center for adaptation and integration of Oralmans in Karaganda and Shymkent cities, as well as in the Aksukent village of South Kazakhstan region.
we need to create an additional price for business, understand business tasks. we need to create additional value for the business and accelerate understanding of business objectives .
a plan of performances is currently being developed, which will become a distinctive prize for all war veterans, as well as an indicator of the combat readiness of Kazakh military pilots. nowadays a plan of performances is developed , which will become the gift to all war veterans , as well as the standard of readiness of kazakh military pilots .
the film crew of the mezzo backstage program to develop a program about the concert halls of the capital, where the competition will be held.
our happiness is the achievement of our independence today, "he said.
Over the years of independence, we have laid a solid foundation for development.
reform aimed at the development of civil society, a united nation, determines what the future of the country awaits from every person. "
The deficit of the republican budget in 2015 is expected at the level of 1,265,5 billion tenge, "the committee said.
Recall that the VIII Astana Economic Forum began work in the capital.
Oleg smokes has also been appointed deputy chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the president said.
in addition, undergraduates took part in the scientific conference "European Union and Kazakhstan-2050" in Brussels at the European Commission.
the functioning of the international Chongqing-Duisburg route contributes to the intensification of Eurasian economic cooperation and trade relations.
Last year, we entered into an agreement with the Association of Culinary Workers of Russia and Kazakhstan and the University of Training. last year we signed an agreement between the association of cooks russia , kazakhstan and university training .
we built a railway to be continued. we have created a railway and we must build .
election of members of the political council of the party and the central control and audit commission.
modern equipment of the French company rishel is installed in the greenhouse.	the greenhouse is equipped with modern units by french company rishel .	1,16
Your great work has given a special impetus to the development of our country, "the head of state said.
loan portfolio increased by 72% and amounted to KZT4,100 m.
24 thousand of them were passported, "said the vice minister.
this document contains detailed information on priorities and investment climate of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including a new package of government measures to improve the investment attractiveness of the country and benefits for foreign investors, experienced information on the most important sectors of the Kazakh economy, the region of the Republic of Kazakhstan, business conditions, an overview of the simplified visa procedure for countries with high business interest in various sectors of Kazakhstan, etc.
"Today, cargo turnover is growing at the border crossing of the" uh "and" future "rehabilitation international commercial port.
During the summit, Ad.Dauylbayev held bilateral meetings with foreign colleagues - Ministers of Justice and Prosecutors General of Canada, Romania, Turkey, Oman, etc.
Director General of isesko Abdel Aziz Tueijri wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health and well-being, noting that under the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan the country is confidently moving towards sustainable development, prosperity and improvement of well-being.
The Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan is interested in training Kazakh military personnel in higher educational institutions of the Ministries of Defense of Russia, Belarus, Turkey, India, South Korea, China, Kazakhstan and the UK, the statement said.
According to the head of the region, the coordinating council has yet to consider many projects.
their total value is estimated at 6 billion 556 million 879 thousand tenge.
The exhibition was held in two sections.
expo is an event of entertaining and educational importance.
through activities - 48 livestock farms, 9 mini-centers and 9 kindergartens, 11 for the transportation of goods, 2 for the transportation of goods, 32 for trade, 6 for cafe business, 28 projects in the field of service.
first of all, this will ensure social stability in society, secondly, it will reduce dependence on imported products and will provide an additional incentive to create new jobs. Firstly, it will provide social stability in society, and second, it will reduce dependence on imported products and will be an additional initiative for the creation of new jobs.
glory to the heroes of the Great Patriotic War!
Within two days, May 21-22, 30 events are planned.
he was awarded the bronze medal of Khshka, the medal of the European Society of Head and Neck Tumors, the jubilee medal of the arrow, many awards and diplomas.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, tamara duissenova etc. He supported the gmbh company's proposal to build a sub-plant in Kazakhstan for the production of plates, screws, pins, special implants and tools.
in order to encourage citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign citizens who have made a significant contribution to ensuring the supremacy of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the formation and development of constitutional foundations, the protection of constitutional rights of citizens, as well as in honor of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the text of the decree says.
The railway structures of the countries are actively working among themselves, the minister said.
Kazakhstan annually takes part in the action, which is recognized as an authoritative dialogue platform of world tourism and allows to present rich history, culture and unique nature of the country.
It is planned to hold photo contests for expectant mothers on the theme "I will be a baby" and "Share your joy - a miracle of light."
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that all the work carried out is aimed at the future of the country, at the future of the younger generation.
He also noted that the support provided by the state will allow the development of private entrepreneurship.
after the break of the third stage of the launch vehicle, the breeze-m "crew block and the Inmarsat-5f2 spacecraft continued their autonomous flight.
Yesterday, a meeting of the group took place, and by the end of June we will submit proposals for your consideration on the implementation of reforms and instructions, "the Prime Minister said.
The youth policy of the President of Kazakhstan became the basis for the film. youth policy of the president formed the basis of the picture .
This process should give great impetus to the first forum of the regions of Kazakhstan and Poland planned this year.
The head of the city noted that work in this direction will continue.
I instruct the government to urgently develop a law on the commercialization of science.
During the implementation of the Program for the Development of Regions - 2020, within 5 years it is planned to build rental housing for an average of 29 thousand square meters. m for 1,483 thousand apartments.
The book of the President of Kazakhstan "Book-2015," which was held on February 27 and March 1 of this year in the largest exhibition center of the Baltic countries "Kipsala," was presented at the opening ceremony of the international exhibition.
During the meeting, the investment opportunities of the two regions were presented, in addition, the participants of the business forum discussed topical issues of supporting the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
we have developed a number of proposals to stimulate enterprises. we are preparing a number of proposals to stimulate enterprises .
This is how we should educate our youth, "the president said.
According to him, such long-term programs as Strategy-2050 and Nұrly zhol have appeared in Kazakhstan in order to join the number of 30 states.
Bogatyr coal company is a Kazakh-Russian joint venture for the production of coal "samruk-energo" (a white subsidiary of "samruk-kazyna") and bk "rusal."
in different years, competition for the program was different. over the years , competition was different . " - he added .
we try to win in all competitions in which we participate.
The Russian Prime Minister expressed readiness to intensify cooperation within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, which opens up new opportunities for the development of cooperative ties with Kazakh partners.
For 23 years, Kazakhstan received 56 medals at the Olympic Games and about 640 medals at the Asian Games. within 23 years kazakhstan has won 56 medals in the olympics and 640 medals in the asian games .
The cost of 1 pavilion is 9 million tenge.
As of December 1, 2014, the number of emergency schools decreased by 106 and reached 136.
come on specific facts, give your suggestions, "said Mr. Dosanov.
On June 2, 2015, in honor of the 60th anniversary of the Baikonur space complex, a solemn event will be held at the cosmodrome and the city of Baikonur.
also at the Munga and Aisha Bibi training grounds, special units of the regional command "south" are held camp training camps.
Recall that last year the airport of Kyzylorda received international status.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that despite the crisis phenomena in the world, Kazakhstan continues systemic development, this is evidenced by the socio-economic indicators of the region.
During the visit of Shaanxi city delegation to Karaganda region, these and other agreements were reached. this and other agreements were reached during the business visit of a delegation of shaanxi province in karaganda region .
For the first time in the last 5 years, Kazakhstan increased the export of cattle meat by 14 times and exported 12 thousand tons of meat and meat products, "the report said.
EXPO-2017 will contribute to the development of architectural and construction art of Kazakhstan, "the head of the branch said.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, a memorandum "on trade and economic cooperation" was signed during the meeting.
This project was dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
We are talking about promoting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, preparations for the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017," the launch of the official development assistance mechanism "kazaid" and the creation of a multilateral diplomatic hub in Almaty.
for me, this election will be held for the first time. for me , these elections will be the second .
in Karaganda, temirtau, shakhtinsk.
During the meeting, such issues as the provision of assistance to children, perinatal screening, early rehabilitation of children born of neurological pathology, the development of an emergency and emergency medical service, rehabilitation of patients after cardiac surgery and stroke were discussed.
China's initiative to create an economic belt of the silk road is combined with the new economic policy of the President of Kazakhstan.
Holding the Olympic Games in Almaty will be an event for all Kazakhstanis and our future generations. holding of the olympic games in almaty will be a great honor and pride for all kazakhstani people and future generations .
Together with the guys we will make every effort to the "best" competitions.
the composition and activities of the working group have been clarified, "the report said.
I deliberately voted for Nursultan Nazarbayev. i deliberately chose a nominee of the president .
these products will contribute to both the creation of new jobs and employment and the implementation of the 2020 Employment Road Map program.
"the best goods of production purpose," "the best consumer goods," "the best food goods."
the capacity of one terminal was 1.5 million tons, the remaining two transshipment terminals - 1.5 million tons, "said R. Sklar.
we together with the president, "said a member of the republican assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
the law should be above the legislation. the law must be above the bylaws .
Chairman of the Eurasian Medical Union A. Sarkisyan notes that the high trust shown by the Kazakh people is a sign of recognition of the work of Nursultan Nazarbayev in creating a democratically developed and socially responsible state, maintaining stability in Central Asia, protecting the health of the people.
of them with the Kazakh language of instruction - 62,384, with the Russian language of instruction - 25,398.
according to him, three months is the present.
I am sure that Kazakhstan will continue to strengthen relations with the European Union through your leadership, as well as ties between the capital and Rome, "the congratulation says.
1.5 billion tenge is provided for the return of the interest rate on the loan.
In addition, 2,598,3 million tenge was allocated for the completion of the construction of the city multidisciplinary hospital for 300 places.
with a full forecast estimate of gross domestic product last year increased by 4.3%, "said A. Smailov.
the measures taken will reduce atmospheric pollution of harmful substances in Kazakhstan and increase the competitiveness of the national economy, the minister concluded.
In 2014, the construction of 4 kindergartens in Aktau began.
our countries have become an important, constructive force for the stability and development of the region. our countries have become important constructive forces in achieving stability and development in the region .
Kazakhstani youth should participate in solving global problems. it is necessary that the kazakh youth will take part in resolving global issues .
at that e. Kazykhanov drew attention to the implementation of a number of international projects in Kazakhstan, such as the Western Europe-Western China transport corridor and the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway line.
During the meeting, the state of bilateral partnership and prospects for further cooperation were discussed, including the participation of Italian companies in the second five-year plan of industrialization, in the projects of the infrastructure development plan within the framework of the new economic policy "bright path - way to the future."
The gift prize is awarded in the field of science, literature, journalism, sports, folk art, design and inventive creativity, pop, theater and cinema, classical music and social activities.
Based on open data, Kazakhstan has developed mobile applications to search for licenses, healthcare and education facilities, "he added.
Last week, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Abu Dhabi met with the Commissioner General of the National Pavilion at Expo 2017, Salem al-Amer, with the aim of exchanging views on the participation of emirates in the international specialized exhibition "Expo 2017" in Astana.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, a special state program for the development of domestic and inbound tourism will be developed.
In particular, President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev praised the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" and noted that Swiss companies are interested in measures to create a favorable investment climate.
Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that at the end of last year he instructed the government to develop scenarios for the development of events in various versions, the main task of which is not to reduce the growth rate of the economy and maintain basic social benefits.
worked there throughout the war. during the war i worked there .
this requires great hope.
241.4 million tenge was spent on spa treatment and provision of compensation funds for disabled people and veterans and increased by 12%.
As akim noted, students of the school named after Shesenov. developed a social project "Work in Rehabilitation."
Following the discussion, Bakytzhan Sagintayev instructed the Ministries of Agriculture and Investment and Development, together with the Atameken NPP, to work out and form a map of priority projects in the field of agricultural processing.
of which the export of red meat - 7.5 thousand tons, beef - 6.3 thousand tons.
The heads of state discussed priority areas of bilateral cooperation, as well as the development of the Eurasian integration process.
these are competitive enterprises that ensure the life of the country, diversify the economy, ensure the growth of Kazakhstan's exports, open new markets, "he said.
According to the statement of the committee, the bill provides for the settlement of the issue of exchanging/transmitting secret information of state bodies authorized to interact with authorities received from state bodies, to justice bodies and international organizations by amending and supplementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Statistics," the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Customs Affairs," "On Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments."
During the war years, we only thought about how to help the wounded, and tried to relieve their illness. in war we thought only about how to help the wounded , sooth their pain , save them .
Last year, the first draft of this nature was carried out.
financing was carried out through the joint-stock company Kazagrofinance.
In addition, according to the minister, popular science films about the development of Kazakhstan and its natural relics should be used.
the specific weight of milk increased by 3.2% and amounted to 473.3 thousand tons. milk production was increased by 3.2 % , amounting to 473.3 thousand tons .
The competition was attended by more than 200 public museum and museum types, cultural organizations, independent education, sports, children's, youth, veteran public structures, national cultural centers, all willing founders of public museums.
Another goal of our country in holding the Expo-2017 exhibition is to show the world community its capabilities.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that the participating countries today have chosen a long-term direction of peace, harmony, mutual benefit and support.
Recall, on April 13 of this year, they began to accept documents for the appointment of the Future international scholarship.
He served in the regiment 240 m. "
conductor - floating aquavia (Italy).
including Karaganda, Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan regions.
According to the Secretary of State, within the framework of the program of the Head of State "Nұrly zhol," the national commission will promote the participation of women in all infrastructure projects implemented along the "bright path."
the military parade will be attended by 5 thousand military personnel, 220 modern weapons and military equipment, 70 units of modern aiation equipment.
In addition, due to temporary difficulties in the Russian economy, the heads of state discussed current issues of mutual trade.
In 2014, the labor units of the "green country" were allocated 11.4 million tenge from the local budget, and 300 young people of the region were temporarily employed.
During the negotiations, the technological capabilities of Italian companies were considered.
in addition, I am sure that they will be strong to the traditions of our ancestors. "
You know what efforts I am making to strengthen close cooperation between our countries. you know that i pay attention to strengthening of the close cooperation between our countries .
22.2 thousand tons of rice seeds were poured into sowing warehouses. 22.2 thousand tons of rice seeds have been poured into the storage for the next year .
in fact, 66 objects are for sale, 51 objects have been sold.
under one control we solve two problems, create equal conditions for graduates.
Issues such as measurement, increasing efficiency come to the forefront around the world - the main tool for shaping change is the state. all over the world the most important problem is the problem of increasing of efficiency - the main instrument of reform , created by the society - it is a state .
initiate a large-scale reform of trade policy and customs procedures within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union. it is necessary to initiate a large-scale reform of the customs procedures , trade policy within the eurasian economic union .
most recently, representatives of the Chinese foreign trade bank. just recently , the representatives of the foreign trade bank of china have been in the nce .
I can proudly say that I am the grandson of one of the heroes of the Great Patriotic War.
the largest sales volume is in Karaganda - 397.0 billion tenge or 77.8% of the regional trade turnover.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today the judicial system faces new tasks outlined at the VI Congress of Judges.
all borders are crossed out, delimited, demarcated.
box intervals of 15 meters, vehicles - 20 meters.
Under the heading "voice of war" on the site there are front-line letters and live voices of some war heroes.
In general, compared to 2013, passenger traffic increased by 10%.
in the republic, depending on the information related to the election of kusainovka - 0.7%, n.nazarbayevka - 97.7%, duzdykovka - 1.6%.
among them are members and veterans of the assembly in all regions of the country, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, members of parliament, heads of central and executive bodies, political parties and religious associations, non-governmental organizations, representatives of diplomatic missions of foreign states, scientific, creative intelligentsia, the media and rectors of higher educational institutions.
The main investment investments were carried out by small enterprises, their volume amounted to 220210 million tenge or 121.4% by 2013.
We fully support the fact that the candidacy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, the staff of the Golden Mountain Kokshetau LLP more than 2200 people, has been nominated for the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the ministry, the purpose of the minister's visit is connected with the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development (SPFIID).
Independence Day of Kazakhstan is the greatest holiday for us.	the independence day is the most great holiday for our country .	1,17
Also, according to him, this year a palace of schoolchildren, a marriage house and a regional court institution will be built.	according to him , this year also the palace schoolchildren , house of wedding , the building of the regional court will be plant .	1,17
his selfless work, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
today we can offer our customers transportation services anywhere in China, Europe, Russia, the Caucasus and the Persian Gulf through Kazakhstan. today , we provide our clients with transportation services from any point of origin in china , europe , russia , south caucasus and the persian gulf countries to any destination via kazakhstan .
Professional Holding analyzes the world educational experience taking into account the economic and social situation in Kazakhstan, and also transfers it to the education system of Kazakhstan.
they informed participants about the ongoing action and the work of a mobile phone, handed over mobile phones with an "alarm button" to a group of veterans.
Among them are the Zhanazhol gas processing plant, the Aktobe rail and beam plant, a new ferroalloy plant in the white stone act "kazchrom."
This year we very carefully clarified the lists of voters.
Thanks to his talent and work, it is very important to choose the path of growth and find his place in society, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The purpose of this action is to organize the free transfer of valuable historical artifacts to the national museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
locomotive building plant (Kazakhstan-Russia)
According to the Akmola Media Center, in 2015, 4.3 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the housing and communal services program, within which 3330 people will be employed.
the command of the Warsaw military garrison sent a guard of honor and a military orchestra to the monument.
It should be noted that Kazakhstan and Adbar cooperation from 1994 to the present is represented by 21 state loans and 2 state guarantees in the amount of 3 billion tenge, private sectors - 8 loans in the amount of 455.2 million dollars without state guarantees, and 69 projects in the amount of 31.09 million tenge were presented as technical assistance.
Thanks to this work, we are reducing the shortage of preschool institutions, "Akhmetzhanov concluded.
"The upcoming presidential elections are an important political event in the life of the country, which places great responsibility on all participants in the electoral process."
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked all the specialists who participated in the construction of the plant, and wished an early start and further success.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also met with leading athletes of South Kazakhstan region in this form.
When I talked about cooperation, I would name such areas as transport, trade and communications, the development of the field of medicine, and this is only a small part of our potential, "said algirdas butkevicius.
Nuraskarovich nogaev - akim of West Kazakhstan region;
eurozone countries - 61 thousand tons of grain and Middle Eastern - 17.9 thousand tons of grain, "he said.
According to the chairman of the board, this year the composition of the tender commission was changed.
Kazakh entrepreneurs intend to present their companies, discuss cooperation with Hungarian enterprises, the possibility of establishing professional ties, participating in bilateral negotiations and implementing joint projects in various sectors of the economy, the report said.
Since July 1, 2014, the states of psychologists working on a contractual basis have been introduced in all juvenile courts. freelance psychologists work under the contract in all juvenile courts since july 1 , 2014 .
rule of law, protection of human rights, implementation of legal reforms, strengthening of international cooperation in the fight against transnational crime.
major projects include Pavlodar and eastern Kazakhstan, a geochemical complex in Astana, a eurochem in the Zhambyl region, a full-cycle automobile plant in a non-growing form, everything was realized through direct investment, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Currently, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has reached an agreement on cooperation with leading polyclinics of the ego city, white "Astana Medical University," employees of the departments of surgery, urology, cardiology, neurology, therapy involved in operations and treatment.
The heads of departments noted the commitment and unity of Kazakhstan and Hungary in ensuring international and regional security at the modern level, "the statement said.
According to the results of the event, the deputy akim said that Kazakhstan's initiatives for the development of the industrial industry are an important part of the future development of Kazakhstan and are an integral part of the new national program of forced industrial and innovative development, the development strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol."
Kazakhstan has a welding institute with the participation of the total company, projects in the field of solar energy are being implemented.
If Kazakhstan agreed, then thanks would be unlimited, "he said.
international experience was widely used in the development of the bill.
in addition to the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway line, the Aktau-Egzali (Iran) road will be opened and further towards the Persian Gulf, including Dubai.
It is noted that adjustments will be made to the business plan of the company.
As part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, voiced by the head of state in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the Baiterek holding is faced with the task of strengthening the housing infrastructure.
production growth by 0.3%, agricultural growth by 0.8%.
dear compatriots, dear Kazakhstanis opened today the year of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, announced by my decree throughout the country. dear compatriots , dear kazakhstanis , today the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan takes start in sync across the whole country .
business training in business communications was held by 4095 entrepreneurs.
It is very important that in world culture, among other things, the best aspects of the culture of our country, our people are visible!, the letter says.
The event was attended by the Ambassador of Ukraine, diplomats of Bulgaria and Japan, deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of this country and Georgian-Yezidi, Jewish, Assyrian and Ukrainian national-cultural centers, intellectuals of science and culture, teachers of Yerevan University, as well as political scientists, ethnologists and students of higher educational institutions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
foreign and domestic observers note an increasing activity in voting, "he said.
entrepreneurs must understand their responsibility to the people and the state, "said the mayor of the city.
To date, a competition has been announced, in May the winner will complete the construction, "the statement said.
Dmitry Medvedev congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential election.
The head of state expressed hope for the positive impact of the changes on the company's obligations.
The President of the Republic of Seychelles on behalf of the Government and people of the country expressed condolences to Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Finance, the budget received 307.2 million tenge.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the parties discussed the ties between the state and the Orthodox Church of Kazakhstan.
Soon Kazakhstan will celebrate the 70th anniversary of victory. very soon kazakhstan will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the victory .
everyone came to the training ground and began to solve the tasks approved by the leadership, "said Lieutenant General Alexander the student.
Kazakhstan is recognized as a generator of stability and security in the Central Asian space, a reliable partner of the international community in strengthening global peace.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that, despite the difficult economic situation in the world, the EAEU member states have great potential for further development for the benefit of all.
currently there are 117 reservoirs in Zhambyl region, of which 5 in the republican, 7 in the private, 105 in communal property.
tank crews of Russia, Armenia, Belarus and Kazakhstan took part in the competition.
this is 4 times more than in the previous 2013.
In 2014, 1 billion 867 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget to strengthen the material and technical base of the Department of Internal Affairs, which is twice as much as in 2013.	in 2014 the regional budget allocated 1 billion 867 million tenge .	1,17
As you know, investment subsidies have been carried out as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program since last year.
due to all measures, the dilapidation of the main equipment was stopped, emergency conditions at power plants were reduced, "he said.
in the field of health, the services provided amounted to 27850428.0 thousand tenge (98.1%), including the largest volume of services (55.3%) due to the services of hospital institutions provided in the amount of 15390021.0 thousand tenge, the report said.
To date, the agency is considering about 20 investment projects worth more than $770 million, "added the deputy chairman of the board.
Burgomaster of Berlin noted the possibilities of two capitals in the framework of the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
the program is comprehensive concrete measures of youth, corresponding to the loads of the party and the young homeland. "
we were looking forward to completing this renovation. we are all looking forward to the completion of the repair .
The Eurasian Economic Union is a process of emergency potential. eurasian economic union is a very promising process .
Honorary veterans received respect and gifts.
As you know, the main exporters of Almaty are cars, oil and gas devices, building materials, medicines, medical products, textiles, flour, pasta, soft drinks and confectionery.
The colocation service involves the placement of government devices and the rental of infrastructure.
The National Bank has done a lot of work on non-working loans. the national bank has done a lot of work together with the banks to reduce the non-performing loans .
In order to maintain the consumer price index in the corridor of 6-8%, inflationary restrictions and measures are being taken to prevent unreasonable increases in prices for socially significant goods.
the proposal was presented and approved at the first congress.
employees of the Dream youth center of Mangistau region sent it to their colleagues in all regions of Kazakhstan.
construction sites are hazardous objects, therefore they must be fenced before the start of work. the construction site represents danger ; therefore , it must be fenced before the start of work .
the art director of the Italian theater Giuseppe Acuaviva, in turn, noted that "carlo feliche" opens the way for Europe for the ballet troupe Astana Opera.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the interlocutor about the investment benefits accepted by the Government of Kazakhstan for foreign investors and urged companies located in Houston to take an active part in the new industrial program of the head of state "Nұrly zhol" and the exhibition "Expo-2017."
In addition, this year in Shymkent, the construction of 1080 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 56.2 thousand square meters. m, which are being built at the expense of Kazakhstan Mortgage Company JSC.
we did not recognize, helped the innocent victims of Stalinism, we achieved our independence, a peaceful path.
the ways of holding the auction and competition under the new law will also be simplified.
According to the deputy, the government is instructed to cover specific economic zones with specific projects.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the republic actively uses the potential of neighboring countries - the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation.
we have radically changed the historical development of the country. we changed and make the dynamic course of historical development .
the Council of War designated need of the direction of the main efforts to improvement of practical actions of military units, divisions, structural units for overcoming threat of the international security ", - it is said in the statement.
Within the framework of the program of the visit, B. Aytimova met with Vice President of Brazil Michel Temer, and a message from the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev was presented to the President of Bralia D. Russeff. support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018 and the further development of bilateral relations.
The Head of State noted that all conditions for young scientists will be created at the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
During the meeting with the President of Mongolia, the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the trade and economic sphere were considered.
At the same time, according to him, the pension system of Russia and Belarus differs from Kazakhstan.
The business activity index (pmi) of the analytical company markit and the Royal Institute of Procurement and Supply in December reached 51.4 points, which is lower than forecast, but above the November level of 51.1. pmi purchasing managers ( pmi ) market research firm markit and the chartered institute of purchasing and supply ( cips ) in december reached 51.4 points , which was lower than expected , but higher than the november level of 51.1 .
The status of Kazakhstan at the world championship was defended by six athletes.
I instruct the Macb management to restore the fences and brand all construction facilities within two weeks, "the akim said.
We assume that if the program is successfully implemented, 30 companies will appear in Kazakhstan, which will be able to increase production by at least 10% per year and the share of export goods by 30%, "said the chairman of the board of Baiterek ukh kuandyk bishimbayev.
Note that a new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" is currently being implemented.
The forces of the rescue unit are working on the spot, "said R. Imankulov.
the conference discusses topical issues in the field of ethnocultural policy, enhancing international cultural cooperation in the era of globalization and the formation of tolerance.
On March 1, 1995, the President of Kazakhstan signed a decree on the creation of a new institution - the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. march 1 , 1995 the presidential decree on the establishment of a new institution - the assembly of people of kazakhstan was signed .
in Kazakhstan, there has been a significant increase in democracy in just 20 years, "concluded Stephen Stockman.
According to the author, the roots of embroidery lie deep.
But they have the opportunity to make their necessary contribution and be reflected in the upcoming campaigns, "he said.
I also express hope for further strengthening of relations between Israel and Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
international institutions cannot ensure the peace and stability that we have always hoped for, "the president said.
within the framework of dialogue a. Volkova Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan x. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Tajikistan, Davlatzoda, Deputy Secretary General of the European Foreign Relations Service. with a schmid, with the director of the department for Russian, Eastern Partnership, Central Asian, regional cooperation and ecu and the regional director of the Unisef office a. Zuev.
it is necessary to educate young people so that they are faithful to their homeland, know history, "said the chairman of the city council of veterans.
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the President of China, as well as the leadership of China for their support in the development of the partnership.
the city council of veterans always returns to the request of the youth wing. "
According to Leonid Larichev, director of Sevkazenergo, the facility will be commissioned as planned, that is, in December of this year.
we are closely monitoring the situation around Afghanistan. we are closely monitoring the situation around afghanistan .
cooperation with the Eurasian Economic Union was therefore necessary. it should be discussed together with the eurasian economic union .
the economic situation of the city, stable, high need.
according to him, "taikazan" can combine our past and future, because it is filled with sacred deeds.
According to him, in accordance with the state program, there were ideas for changing the format of national testing.
this is 2.4 times more than in 2013, and in comparison with 2009, the indicator increased by 16.6%, "he said.
In general, the city has completely solved the program to increase the capacity of electrical equipment, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Italian businessmen took with interest the requirements of doing business in Kazakhstan, economic preferences and stimulating savings, noting the advantages of the Kazakh market in the process of forming the Eurasian Economic Union.
we are looking for answers to global challenges in the country. we are looking for answers to global problems .
Following the meeting, the Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to the relevant state bodies.
military musicians performed works by domestic composers, performing songs of the war years.
The press conference will be attended by the vice-president of Kazakhstan Railway Roman sklyar and the deputy director of the branch "Center for the Development of Transport Logistics" abdur-rashid sakenov.
the authors note the dynamic development of the republic during the years of sovereignty, large-scale economic and political changes, rising incomes of the population, as well as the great authority of Kazakhstan in the international arena.
the experience of foreign partners in this matter is also of interest to Kazakhstan. the experience of the foreign colleagues in this issue is interested for kazakhstan .
Russian, Belarusian, Australian, Egyptian, Kazakh and international grandmasters from our country, champions of different years gathered to participate in the tournament, the regional akimat reported.
According to him, the mission of the Embassy of Macedonia in Kazakhstan is aimed at the development of political development and trade and economic trade between the countries.
In general, Kazakhstan is expected to actively participate in the presidential elections, "he said.
agricultural products amounted to 14.7 billion tenge.
we provide all types of services for the implementation of projects and work in this direction covers all areas, "said T. Ulybayev.
has two children.
we are confident that your strength, rich experience of state and political activity will serve for a long time for the benefit of our country.
to pass the global maturity exam, we must be organized, build trust and tolerance among all Kazakhstanis. in order to pass a global test , we must be united , we should strengthen confidence between all the people of kazakhstan , to be tolerant towards each other .
Kazakhstan, in turn, has formed its multinational people with a special model, without being drawn into known samples.	moreover , the  elder , " assembly of people of kazakhstan is an example for his russian " sister . "
According to the press service of the akim, the construction of the Almat-Bayserke-talgar gas pipeline has been completed.
It should be noted that the international forum "Kazakhstan geology forum, oil & gas" brought together representatives of more than 70 companies of Kazakhstan, Canada, the Netherlands, Russia, Uzbekistan, Belarus, France, Great Britain, Germany.
4.ural transformer plant (production of electrical products).
According to preliminary forecasts, the first in terms of the total number of points are the East Kazakhstan region, the second - the city of Astana, the third - the Aktobe region.
the average size of the pension, taking into account the basic pension payment, is 50,549 tenge (the size of the pension payment is 39,367 tenge, the size of the basic pension payment is 11,182 tenge), the minimum is 34,874 tenge, taking into account the basic pension payment.
The volume of investments amounted to 3,276 million tenge.	the volume of investments is 3,276 million tenge .	1,18
this is an animated film about our heroes of aliyah Moldagul, Manshuk Mametov, Baurzhan.
R. Zhoshybayev informed about preparations for the upcoming international exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana, noting that this event will become a driver of tourism development for Kazakhstan and the whole region.
the military-patriotic action of the capital - Volgograd - the capital was attended by internationalist soldiers who handed over the remains of those killed in hand-to-hand combat.
I am proud that I can come to Kazakhstan and look at the election. i am very proud to be in kazakhstan and to observe the elections .
In 2015, the manufacturing industry in the structure of the industry will be supplied by 25-27%, labor productivity will reach 40 thousand US dollars due to the commissioning of a new kazchrom ferroalloy plant, a rail and beam plant of Araz LLP, a cathode copper production plant of kazcopper LLP and a number of other industrial facilities.
According to the Governor's office, 21 million tenge will be allocated for the restoration of maps of heroes dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
We know that this is all thanks to the wise leadership of our president, "he said.
Host and foreign delegates expressed their intention to enhance interaction at the intergovernmental and interregional levels within the framework of the asem forum.
b.Saparbayev also met with the leaders of city structures, during which social issues were discussed.
The main goal of the flash mob is to express a civil position in support of the results of the presidential elections in Kazakhstan, "said the managing director of Kazkontent dias of esdaulets during the flash mob.
The implementation of the Nұrly zhol program will ensure the full coverage and export of eastern Kazakhstan to the Xinjiang-Uighur autonomous zone, "he said.
According to the results of the consultations, the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Afghanistan identified priority areas of cooperation in the medium term in order to increase cooperation between the two countries in various areas.
we must learn in the past. we must learn the lessons of last year 's growing season .
here most of the necessary infrastructure is already ready. almaty has already a large part of the infrastructure .
many thanks to the youth, let everything be like that. thank you so much , let all young people will be like you .
and that's okay.
the Kazakh diplomat called the patriarchal vicar a model of interethnic and interfaith harmony of Kazakhstan, the president of A.D. familiarized with the basic principles of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol," reported on the results of earlier congresses in the capital, noted the substantive aspects and program of the upcoming V congress.
On the instructions of the head of state, the government is taking all measures to stabilize and control the flood situation in the regions of the country. on behalf of the head of the state the government takes all measures to stabilize and control the flood situation in several regions of the country .
the Agribusiness 2020 program is being implemented, aimed at technical and technological re-equipment, increasing the availability of financial resources, and effective agribusiness, "the report said.
As for transit potential, Kazakhstan is in the center of Asia and Europe, and we try to make the most of this opportunity. as for the transit potential , kazakhstan is located between asia and europe , so we try to take the most from this potential .
During the training with the heads of units and personnel of the detachment, a briefing was held on training, mobilization and release, search and rescue, as well as provision of communications, logistical equipment, security, health and medical support, security.
According to him, this is the combined result of such national programs and integration processes as industrial development in Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that on September 17 last year, a memorandum was signed in Kokshetau on the construction of roads with a capacity of 180 MW (electric) and 450 gcal/h (thermal).
During the signing of the agreement, the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that Europe is an important political and trade and economic partner of Kazakhstan.
the region, which took the baton, continued with its charity event "mercy" - "mercy," assisting low-income families.
Following the 42nd session, more than 90 resolutions were adopted in the political, economic, scientific, technical, humanitarian and organizational spheres.
schoolchildren and students of universities in the capital told the leaders of three countries about unique projects, such as the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and the international scholarship "future," as well as about strategic programs for the development of the republic.
In this regard, a great responsibility for us is to further increase the volume and quality of agricultural products, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We pose a number of questions that take into account the attendance of guests, these are information points and parking lots, "said the deputy head of the NPP.
In conclusion, the head of state recalled the new goals and tasks outlined at the recent XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party, called for continued work in all areas and wished the audience success and well-being.
The list of the program includes many infrastructure facilities that should be built and repaired in the future under the Nұrly zhol program, "said Mr. Kurbanbaeva.
It is also planned to hold solemn meetings, concerts, meetings, presentations of books, photo and book exhibitions, performances, festive processions with the participation of students and students of educational institutions, youth organizations.
Under the chairmanship of German Federal Minister of Food and Agriculture Christian Schmidt, issues of national food safety, food production, agriculture, agro-industrial development sectors, etc. were discussed.
it is hard for us, who survived the war, to hear about the clashes in which people die. we , who came through the war , sad to hear about the conflicts in which people die .
The purpose of the main bill is to increase the efficiency of state regulation of the economy by introducing the institution of self-regulation in some areas of activity, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan during the presentation of the bill.
In 2013, instead of 14,530 MW, we used 13,153 MW of capacity, "he said.
The Act aims to improve legislation on natural monopolies and regulated markets, competition and transport infrastructure development.
Speaking about trade and economic cooperation, Kabibulla Dzhakupov called on Austrian entrepreneurs to take an active part in the implementation of the new economic policy and industrial and innovative projects within the framework of the Bright Path program.
In 2015-2017, we plan to produce another 40 electric locomotives.
The sides discussed a number of expanded issues in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres of Kazakh-Russian cooperation.
the first 300 escapes took place immediately, "said Alexander Yakovlev, deputy director of Zhigermunaiservice LLP.
In order to exchange experience, Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov together with representatives of the working group met with representatives of a large international consulting company "Pryvoterhauskupers" (pwc), which has extensive experience in the development of the automotive sector.
the discussion was attended by program coordinators, that is, representatives of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Trade of the Mangistau Region, business departments of all regions of the region, the regional chamber of entrepreneurs in the Mangistau Region, and the white branch of the Development Fund.
The Secretary of State drew the attention of the meeting participants to the issues of women's employment, increasing the social responsibility of business, and supporting women's entrepreneurship.
At the international tourism forum, it is planned to discuss ways to unite government, business, professional tourism and academic associations, youth organizations.
The standard of the Eurasian Economic Council and the share of national legislation to create conditions for the development of the production of precious products in Kazakhstan are also being considered, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the President of the football club during the meeting with the Gilvan tavares b. ordabayev discussed issues of training and living conditions of young Kazakhstani athletes.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 19 apartment buildings and 82 one-room residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 110.8 thousand square meters. meters
in particular, the civic alliance of the North Kazakhstan region expressed its readiness to mobilize all forces to support the course of Nursultan Nazarbayev, take an active part in the implementation of state programs and contribute to the development of Kazakhstan.
During the conference, it was noted that the "Kazakhstan National Anti-Epileptic League" is a teaching and leading public organization implementing and developing scientific projects in the field of neurology, epileptology and related parts of medicine.
according to her, during the study there were many discoveries.
after that arrival of participants of the Second World War from Almaty, Almaty, Aktobe, the Mangystau and West Kazakhstan regions is expected.
According to the press service of Akorda, during the meeting issues of the modern state of the armed forces, improving their combat effectiveness, as well as providing modern military equipment and weapons were discussed.
all of them will contribute to strengthening our friendship, "he said.
Today, European advisers and I are evaluating the objects of the road system. now together with european consultants we assess needs of roadside service .
Also, the Brazilian side got acquainted with the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and received an invitation to take part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
The Secretary of State expressed interest in the development of a memorandum of cooperation between the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan and Eidu.
Also last year, the contest reached the republican level.
The national commission has a representative responsible for each direction, "he said.
The share of youth under the age of 29 years amounted to 43.5% (84 thousand 269 people), the share of people aged 30 to 50 years - 44.5% (86 thousand 431 people) who reached the retirement age from 30 years - 12% (23 thousand 39 people), "the report said.
and the outcome of the open-ended working group on sustainable development goals of the UN General Assembly as part of the intergovernmental trend towards the post-2015 global development agenda, which continued within the framework of the couple, in particular, as one of the main goals of sustainable development, "Gender equality and the empowerment of women," The great contribution of Kazakhstan as a member of this group was noted and Kazakhstan expressed interest in the work of this pair commission to be fruitful.
This year, aef makes proposals to attract investors.
All educational classes are the fruits of cooperation between defense departments, higher military educational institutions of Kazakhstan and countries near and far abroad, which are constantly being strengthened.
in competitions among units, special attention was paid to speeds, compactness, entertainment, organizational offices and professional knowledge and qualifications of military personnel.
Currently, 37 local residents work at the enterprise.
we support the candidacy of Nursultan Nazarbayev for participation in the presidential election, nominated yesterday at the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan party.
renee bernsteiner, in turn, etc. for support of gmbh's offer and information on conditions for foreign investors provided in Kazakhstan.
you are the eyes of mercy, warmth, love. you are the embodiment of caring , justice and mercy , the personification of warmth and comfort , the source of a constant inspiration .
The Minister of Health and Social Development of Tamara Duissenova informed about the implementation of the plan.
Within two days from May 21 to 22, 30 events are planned.
Ambassador Zhumakhanov familiarized the conference participants with the main achievements of the country in the political and socio-economic spheres.
Among the investors are a subsidiary of Baiterek Holding, Kazyna Capital Management JSC and Almex Project LLC, the report said.
this allowed to increase the production of milk powder by 16.1%, butter - by 17.6%, hard cheese - by 14.3%, the report said.
According to the international observer, in the elections in Kazakhstan you can make sure that compared to the elections in European countries, including the Serbian country, elections in Kazakhstan are held at a much higher level than in European countries.
sergeants showed methods of orientation on the ground (at night and during the day) with and without maps, determining coordinates.
of these, the national fund received 69.1 billion tenge, the republican budget - 64.4 billion tenge, the local budget - 34.7 billion tenge, "the department said.
its head said that the garden of a poor country was burning.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also got acquainted with the products of the agro-industrial complex of the region.
the draft customs code is based on electronic document management. the project of the customs code is focused on electronic document flow .
scholarships were awarded to famous artists and artists on behalf of the head of state in Almaty. the scholarships were presented to the famous figures of culture and art on behalf of the head of the state .
summing up the meeting, the chairman of the committee on economic policy, innovative development and entrepreneurship also noted that this discussion will serve to increase the effectiveness of work in implementing complex issues related to the formation of industrial infrastructure and the development of the chemical industry.
descendants who, thanks to their strength and power, have become the pride of the country and family, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that he held consultations with the chairmen of the houses of parliament, as well as with the prime minister.
1520 objects worth 6,821,825 thousand tenge were legalized.
The commission will include experienced managers who are able to direct state bodies and civil society, "the expert said.
Thank you very much for organizing the training. such trainings are very necessary for us in our work , with the population .
Note that in the metropolitan railway there is a council of veterans, which includes veterans of the Second World War, rear workers and veterans of the rear organs.
This is a requirement of time, "said the akim of the region.
As for the situation, in our region it is.
exports amounted to $539 million, imports decreased by 12.9% and amounted to $1,723 billion, "said A. Smailov.
"The port of rehabilitation equality fully supports the nomination of Nursultan Nazarbayev as a presidential candidate in the upcoming elections," said the acting president of the "rehabilitation international seaport" uk "myrzabek.
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who have reached the age of 18 years in accordance with the Constitution and the electoral legislation are entitled to vote in elections regardless of their surname, social, official and property status, sex, race, nationality, language, attitude to religion, beliefs, place of residence or any other circumstances.
In the first direction of the Employment Roadmap "Providing employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services" in 2014, 3.3 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of 82 infrastructure projects and medical outpatient clinics.
At our school, we try to involve fathers in parenting meetings and other activities. "
As part of the 2020 Region Development Program in Kokshetau, documents are being accepted for a 337-apartment multi-storey building, "the press release said.
among the favorites can be noted the national teams of Russia, Jordan, Canada and the champions of the People's Republic of China.
I think that thanks to your direct participation in Kazakhstan and throughout the post-Soviet space, assistance will be provided in overcoming the situation in the economy and social sphere, "said V. Putin.
Today, negotiations are underway with banks on lending to this project, the akimats support us. we negotiate with banks on lending of this project , we are supported by the governor 's offices .
Last year, the region achieved great results. the region comes into the new year with good results .
local contribution to the purchase of goods, works and services of Kazneft group of companies during the reporting period amounted to 72% (1 045 119 232 thousand tenge).
The monetary base in 2014 expanded by 20.8% and amounted to 3,413,6 billion tenge.
On June 2, 2014, the Kazakh-Hungarian intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation successfully operates in Budapest, which held 4 meetings.
statehood issues are very important for each state and nation, and the presence of an "institution of state history" in Kazakhstan speaks volumes, "said R.Bukanova.
Nazarbayev University has been invited more than 350 (including 26 Kazakhstanis) foreign scientists from Russia, Great Britain, Canada, France, Italy, the Netherlands.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the state pays special attention to the issues of education, health, youth policy.
Recall that the VIII Astana Economic Forum began work in the capital.
the law is aimed at clarifying the macroeconomic indicators of the country's socio-economic development.
here you can buy meat, fish, chicken, milk, eggs, vegetables, fruits at affordable prices.
opening the meeting, the Secretary of State stressed that Japan is an important strategic partner of Kazakhstan.
Nrla zhol" which is connected with financing of large investment projects.
People's Artist of Kazakhstan rymbayeva rose, folk and ethnographic ensemble "Sazgen Saz" and peoples dance ensemble "Asylym."
these are our best employees.
persons who have received the status of oralmans can benefit from all social benefits provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Population Migration."
Chinese President Xi jinping thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his warm welcome and congratulated him on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan.
D.Ionitsa noted the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, in particular, in the fields of energy, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, transport and logistics, as well as light industry.
In turn, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Iranian Republic Mohammed Javad at a meeting with the Raif noted the construction infrastructure.
today we are completing the open republican contest "The most energy efficient project implemented in the building."
prize in the nomination "Best Coach of the Year" bectemirs, d. adilgazin, M. Eleusinov, v. korzhikens, zhuizakov and f. carol.
in addition, I think that Kazakhstan fully understands its role in the international arena, namely, its role in the Central Asian region.
ignoring these issues, we cannot be seen from among the developed countries of the world, "said President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The new economic policy will become the driver of the growth of our economy in the coming years.
7. oil storage terminal of Aski-Mangistauskaya LLP.
For the fourth time in my life, I am participating in the presidential election. i take part in the elections of the president of the republic of kazakhstan for the fourth time .
In order to provide the population with housing, 24 residential buildings are currently being built in accordance with the Affordable Housing program.
the introduction of elements of social responsibility will provide a significant priority for entrepreneurs. the introduction of elements of social responsibility has certain advantages for entrepreneurs .
This center was implemented by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs with the support of the Ministry of National Economy and the Development Enterprise Development Fund.
In addition, in 2014, on average, 3.8 private owners took advantage of housing assistance totaling 264 million tenge, per capita - 14 thousand tenge each.
with the current president, p. last year we met four times.
In 2014, as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 32 houses are being built, of which 15 are rental, 9 are credit.
Kazakhstan and Venezuela are oil and gas producing states. kazakhstan and venezuela are oil and gas producing countries .
the results of joint work in various areas are observed. in different sectors we have specific results of joint work .
and funding for the project will be worked out by the Ministry of National Economy.
I proposed 5 people's reforms, in this regard, freedoms and business development were adopted.
R. Erdogan thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his visit to Turkey last year and participation in the inauguration ceremony.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the East Kazakhstan region is rich in cultural and spiritual heritage, the preservation and development of which remains one of the priorities of state policy.
Representatives of the highest forces of Hungary, Canada, the Czech Republic, Belgium, Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, Poland and Slovakia took part in the courses as participants.
At the beginning of the conversation, B. Aytimova informed the Vice Minister about the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the President of the Peruvian Republic on the further strengthening of bilateral cooperation and support for the nomination of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the Security Council in 2017-2018.
The government and parliament of Kazakhstan should be granted more rights, "the head of state added.
So, in 2014, funding for education increased by 1.8 billion tenge compared to 2012, and health care - by 1 billion tenge.	for example , in comparison with 2012 the expenses on the development of education were increased in 2014 - 1 billion 800 million tenge , health - 1 billion tenge .	1,19
I worked confidently with all the heads of Iranian states.
The Chairman of the Senate expressed confidence that M.Video's diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan will be successful and will give a new impetus to the development of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
According to the head of state, it is important to adopt a single order that should meet the national interests of all participants, as well as contribute to the elimination of barriers and mutually beneficial integration.
this is another opportunity for us to become stronger and more organized, implementing such large projects as Kazakhstan-2050, the "eternal country," said the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party.
At the same time, the availability of financial resources will increase, "he said.
Cooperation between Kazakhstan and conson & conson LLP includes the following areas:
According to him, he did not notice that he could raise questions in the election process.
in secondary education, we updated the standard, prepared new curricula, built 120 new schools, reduced 3 shift regimes. as for secondary education we have updated the standards , developed new curricula for primary and secondary schools , built more than 120 new schools and reduced the number of three-shift schools .
it is one of the national priorities aimed at preserving human resources.
According to the report, 6.3 billion tenge went to finance the current year.
for example, the maintenance staff of cars "business," "grand" along with higher education should know Kazakh, Russian and English.
This is a jubilee holiday for the republican association of the mining and metallurgical industry - the 10th anniversary. this year for the republican association of mining and metallurgical enterprises is a jubilee , the 10th anniversary of the founding of the association .
this blue ribbon adorns our flag. this is a blue ribbon with the colors of our flag and with ornament .
According to the results of the exit poll, 97.5% of voters voted for Nursultan Nazarbayev.
During the meeting, the Ambassador said that the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Macedonia announced the award of a scholarship to citizens of Kazakhstan at higher educational institutions (state universities) of Macedonia.
As part of the national campaign of the President of Kazakhstan to support veterans of the Great Patriotic War, the Mayor of the capital on behalf of the Head of State congratulated all veterans on the New Year and the 70th anniversary on the upcoming victory.
teaching children to read books should help preserve their attitude to national and world values ​ ​ in the era of information flow, "he said.
During the working trip to Ulan Bator bakytzhan sagintayev met with the President of Mongolia.
During its activities, the train visited 19 settlements, 3935 people were examined by specialists and 51,796 services were provided.
The activity of the center is aimed at improving the conditions for business development in the countryside.
I am sure that we will continue to comprehensively develop fraternal relations, alliances and strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan through joint efforts, the telegram says.
In this regard, I want to note the importance of the congress of world and traditional leaders held in Kazakhstan, which contributes to the establishment of peace and harmony on our continent, "he said.
the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship "on special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures against third countries" and the accompanying document, as well as "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on restricting state participation in entrepreneurial activities" by the responsible committee for further finalizing the bill and preparing an opinion.
During the meeting, familiarization with the military unit, full knowledge of the rules and learning of duties were held.
That is, the state directed the main forces, funds to support business and pay social payments, improve the financial sector, "the chairman added.
Nursultan Nazarbayev called "phantom panic" fears in connection with the growth of Chinese influence in the economy.
We expect the visit of the Chinese chairman of Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan in early May and will discuss with China a new program - diversification of the Kazakh economy.	we 'll discuss a completely new program with china - diversification of the economy of kazakhstan .	1,19
this was an example for many foreign countries, international observers and experts say.
in Mangistau region, according to April 1, 60 veterans, "the report said.
this is an indicator of gender equality, "said the head of the fund at a solemn meeting.
the people believe that we are actively working in the name of peace and harmony, "said T. Mukhamedzhanov.
summing up, the Nazarbayev's gift thanked the deputies for their active work during the election campaign and urged colleagues to continue working on the implementation of five institutional reforms, the new economic program "Nұrly zhol."
the government found these expenses, which will not affect either the social situation or the production industry in any way, "the deputy noted.
(This event patriotically educates the younger generation. "
It should be noted that the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan organizes and holds a competition among military personnel and girls "heroic aryki."
on this day, every citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan will feel his involvement in the construction of an independent, democratic society, "the colonel noted.
of these, 7 projects were launched in 2014.
This transaction is a clear example of cooperation between Kazagro Holding and international investors in order to implement the Agribusiness 2020 program for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020.
In addition, during the visit, a business forum was held with the participation of representatives of the business community, science, culture, education, where the delegation of the Zhambyl region presented the potential of the region in the economic, cultural, tourist and educational spheres.
During the visit, it is planned to visit a number of facilities, as well as participate in the republican forum "Youth for a powerful Kazakhstan."
this is the financial sector, transport and logistics, professional activities, education and healthcare, "said the vice minister.
A "Kazbat" peacekeeping battalion has been established to train our troops to participate in peacekeeping missions in the armed forces.
everything is done so that the voting of citizens takes place openly and fairly. "
At the end of the event, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and white "national information technologies."
this is the construction of a solar biovegetarium, the creation of hotels, environmental labeling of buildings, goods and services.
many came, we exchanged views with them, shared experience.
The fund's financial fund will amount to 18.6 billion tenge. the level of the fund will be 18.6 billion tenge .
they are a worthy example for a new generation.
According to the Governor's Office of North Kazakhstan region, work in all directions has been carried out in Akzhar district.
The university can and should become the main workshop of young specialists of a high professional level, providing innovative development of the country, the capital, "said Adilbek Jaksybekov.
The deputy of the Bundestag noted that Kazakhstan and the capital are attractive to German investors and businessmen.
According to him, the volume of production within the industrialization map from 2010 to 2013 increased from 315 to 2512.7 million tenge, in the first half of 2014 exceeded 3.5 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan currently has more than 130 ethnic and 18 denominational groups.
In his speech, the Kazakh diplomat spoke about the opportunities in Kazakhstan for German business within the framework of the new economic policy "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
This holiday is especially valuable for all peoples living in Kazakhstan, "said the director of the boarding school No. 9 of the Egenberdian rope.
International experience was widely used in the drafting of the law.
this holiday unites all ethnic groups.
During this period, 33 general education schools with 15,526 places, 44 preschool institutions with 5,794 places, 3 hospitals with 640 beds and 58 outpatient and polyclinic institutions with 2,075 visits per shift were commissioned.
we were preparing for the competition for more than six months. we prepared for the competition more than six months .
To date, Kazakhstan has recorded negative manifestations in 523 conditions among 294 thousand people who have been vaccinated.
During the meeting, the head of the Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan thanked the mission for the work done and supported the positive assessment of the ecu/diakb for the effective organization of the elections.
The main thing is that the chairmanship of the assembly is in the hands of our president. "
indeed, this modern and worthy city has achieved not only Eurasian, but also world-class, "said Mr. Rapota.
among them are white "snps-actobemunaigas," white "kazchrome," LLP "Kazakhoil-aktobe," etc.
In particular, the construction of a new terminal is provided.
the people of Kazakhstan have made it clear to the whole world that they support the cooperation of their leaders.
the festival of friendly friendship brought together representatives of all regions of the region.
today in the capital there are very important facilities.
Senator Zhabal Ergali awarded the Order of Honor.
The sides noted Kazakhstan's contribution to the stability and security of Central Asia. the interlocutors noted kazakhstan 's contribution to stability and security in central asia .
Kazakhstan's effective youth policy is highly appreciated by international organizations. effectiveness of the youth policy in kazakhstan is highly appreciated by international organizations .
It is worth noting that Kazzinc LLP with understanding supported the need to open related industries, "said the Chairman of the Board of JSC" National Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc" (RK) Bekturgen.
as well as project management according to the standards ipma/sovnet "of the Alexei colonels, who are certified project managers of nitma and pmi.
global crisis, growing global uncertainty. we can 't consider the world 's situation as the most favorable .
currently 135 states (134 states and the European Union) are members of the IRA, 36 countries are in the process of joining the organization.
There are issues that are not technically resolved. the members of the eaeu have outstanding and technical issues .
We believe that this visit further deepens our relations, "said M.D. Zarif.
By summer, the building will be repaired, "the report said.
in Almaty region, Karaganda and East Kazakhstan regions, 2 vessels each, in the centers of other regions, 1 unit each, "he said.
The head of the upper house of parliament noted that Kazakhstan provides the necessary economic and humanitarian assistance, as well as assistance in the construction of social infrastructure.
In the corner of Kazakhstan distinguished themselves from baursak and traditional sweets, allowing you to get books and materials about the country, as well as watch a video about the modern development path of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, the policy of peace and consent of the head of state is the key to ensuring the political situation, "he said.
and with Nursultan Nazarbayev we are connected by friendly relations.
today we hold a republican festival at the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which includes a gala concert of laureates of regional festivals and a flash mob "Black Zhorga."
in 1996 - graduated from Karaganda State University with a degree in marketing and commerce, and also in 2005 - from the Russian Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation with a degree in manager.
in support of the government's anti-crisis measures, senators e.sagyndykov, m.nbenov spoke.
"- said in the letter of railway workers of Kazakhstan.
The Norwegian side announced that as part of the concept of the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a green economy, a national fisheries development program has been developed.
this indicates the growth of the political culture of society, the country believes in power.
The congress will discuss various aspects of transplantology - ethics and legislation, coordination and organization of donor, transplantological activities, sewing typing, organ replacement, immunosuppressive therapy.
According to the Minister, this year Kazakhstan will develop the introduction of indicators of scientific and technical activity in production.
It was also noted that the second stage of the new economic policy and the industrial-innovative program will give a new impetus to the participation of Slovenian companies in industrial projects in Kazakhstan.
There will also be a meeting with the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Last year, work was actively carried out to support the small and medium-sized business sector.	the work of small and medium-sized business was also activated .	1,20
In the course of summing up the results of the first stage of the exercise from different sides, Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan and Great Britain became the leading representatives of the army.
however, according to the request of the Afghan side, Kazakhstan is considering the continuation of the program.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that friendly relations have developed between the country and Croatia.
the Russian military-historical community, the editors of the newspaper "Evening Moscow," the state museum of the defense of Moscow, the central museum of the Great Patriotic War in the period 1941-1945 took part in the formation of the exhibition of the victory train.
for them, the main thing is harmony.
we even exchanged views among voters for whom these elections are very important, they really vote for the stability and growth of the economy of Kazakhstan at the request of the heart, "the observer from Latvia explained.
growth amounted to 108.7%, which is significantly higher than last year, "he said.
we plan to come to the capital again.
the text of the law is published in the press.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects for the development of domestic culture and ballet art in Kazakhstan were discussed.
honestly, we did not believe that we could work with ourselves, give us land.
the number of employed in production increased by 120 thousand people compared to 2008 and exceeded 1 million people.
the sanatorium was another important step in providing high-quality social assistance to local residents, "he said.
389 heads of legal entities registered in February of this year - men, 196 - women.
in this area, the use of quartz and photovoltaic infrastructure and plant resources available in Kazakhstan is provided, "the report said.
President of the Children's Targeted Public Organization drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan has created all the opportunities for the younger generation.
The Government of the Republic of Macedonia pays very great attention to Kazakhstan, is located in a very important zone and plays a very large role in this space. the government of the republic of macedonia attaches great importance to the republic of kazakhstan , because it is located in a very important region , and also the role of kazakhstan in central asia .
Today, the government, on behalf of the president, is developing a scenario on various opportunities in the economy, "the minister continued.
the people made a choice of the future and is associated with many development programs led by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said Secretary General Shu.
Almaty, located at the intersection of Western and Eastern civilizations, was a treasure of the great silk road, an important part. "
we provide unique experience and the opportunity for people to get new knowledge, ideas, inspiration and other perspectives, "said tedhastana pak mentor.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the special edition contains information and reference materials and articles on the achievements of Kazakhstan, as well as the main provisions of the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan and information about the "capital-expo-2017."
we will create a Eurasian transcontinental corridor, one of the directions of which through Kazakhstan, Russia and Europe, the other through Kazakhstan, Iran will go from the middle east to Indian and other markets. we will create a eurasian transcontinental corridor , one direction - through kazakhstan , russia and europe , the other - in kazakhstan , azerbaijan , turkey and europe , and one more - in kazakhstan , iran , the output of the middle east to india and other markets , so we will invest a lot in infrastructure .
the company produced 60 million pieces of bricks per year, 92 people were permanently employed.
he also familiarized himself with the conditions of service and life of the military.
The festival participants got acquainted with decorative and applied arts, listened to the atmosphere of the country, saw a national dance performed by the head of the Kazakh-Norwegian cultural center Almagul Kalelova, watched the video "Welcome to Kazakhstan" and enjoyed the national dish.
As previously reported, the heads of state will consider issues of deepening mutual trade and economic cooperation between the three countries.
We have built about 800 new enterprises that allow us to keep our economy in crisis. we have built about 800 new manufacturing enterprises , which help to keep the economy afloat during the crisis , when the prices fell .
we support all the main areas and are ready to contribute to their implementation. "
firstly, we have raw materials, secondly, we have a consumer, "the head of state said.
The volume of gross domestic product in Kazakhstan in January-September 2014 in current prices amounted to 25816 billion tenge. in january-september 2014 kazakhstan 's gross domestic product was 25.816 trillion tenge .
Training of employees of regional and district akimats took place in East Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and Mangistau regions.
both the construction of roads and the development of natural infrastructure.
we tried to show our life from the Stone Age to the present day and the achievements achieved over the years of independence, "he said.
The meeting noted the dynamic development of bilateral cooperation in all areas, including projects within the framework of the country partnership program signed in January this year between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Aida.
Recall that the holding of 28 university games in Alma-Ata was determined during the vote on November 29, 2011 (fisu).
communication has been established between us, they inform us of preparation and violations, "said Tamara Lavrinenko, chairman of the branch of the republican public commission of Astana.
In addition, as part of the Nұrly zhol program, it is planned to implement 3 projects to modernize the heating networks of the city of Aksu with a length of 7.2 km, 4 central thermal stations of the city of ekibastuz in the amount of 1.8 billion tenge.
In this regard, a lot of work will be carried out in the district to improve social facilities, improve the district.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of the program "Nұrly zhol" implemented in the country, within the framework of which large-scale work is planned.
the adoption of the document will contribute to increasing the efficiency of trade and economic cooperation, expanding investment cooperation, increasing mutual trade and maintaining sustainable economic growth.
Baizhanov was appointed director of the foreign intelligence service of the Republic of Kazakhstan "syrbar."
I am a consumer of Kazakhstan goods, I highly appreciate the quality of domestic products. being a consumer of the kazakhstan 's products , i highly appreciate the quality of our products .
Vladimir Putin also thanked the President of Kazakhstan for initiatives in the field of integration processes.
The Ambassador of the Federal Government of Germany for Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, Cord Major Klodt, noted the special role of Kazakhstan in developing an updated EU strategy for Central Asia.
M. Selzhuki thanked the President of Kazakhstan and the people of Kazakhstan for providing financial and humanitarian assistance and expressed hope for the continuation of the educational program of our country for Afghan students.
five reforms are what the country needs, ordinary citizens. five reforms , this is what the country needs , the common people .
Iran is a priority for us today. today , iran is a promising direction for us .
there are about 900 thousand active SMEs left, if we speak directly 899 thousand 968 subjects. as of january 1 , 2015 the smes reached 900 thousand , to be exact 899 000 968 subjects .
In the future, a full business plan will be developed with farms working in this direction, and cooperation between the two countries will be strengthened.
the main orbit of the match is the peacock Jacek (Poland), the general secretary is the kefir of the nurgaziev (Kazakhstan).
the organization of the elections itself is high, there is no doubt, "he said.
Kazakhstan, located in the center of Eurasia together with the two poles of the world economy, has a great influence on building transit potential, "he said.
According to the Department of Employment and Social Programs of East Kazakhstan region, the goal of the project is to ensure accessibility and simplify all social support measures provided for in the region.
the meeting also approved the plan of joint actions of the government and the national bank to create and develop the international financial center "capital" for the long term.
This year we plan to produce from 20 to 30 thousand machines, "said A. Rau.
in the Taldykorgan 52 veterans of the Great Patriotic War will be awarded the keys to new apartments on March 19.
The event is planned to be attended by about 3,000 representatives of political, expert and business circles from 90 countries.
project participants are confident that long-term cooperation between Kazakhstan and Norway will prove the commonality of our historical ancestors and modern generations.
for example, in Kazakhstan, it is possible to establish mutually beneficial cooperation with the kamaz holding by organizing a network of service points for military automotive equipment.
Nr zhol "much attention is paid to development of the airports.
these areas should form the basis of our effective interaction, "said the deputy ruler of Dubai.
I am glad that I graduated from this very school, which gives us great opportunities in the future. i am glad that i finished this school , because it gives a huge opportunity in the future .
In the reporting year, under the Sybaga program, 56 peasant farms were granted loans in the amount of 722.2 million tenge, for which 3968 livestock were purchased by agricultural producers.
they will discuss the further development of the world military sports movement, the physical training of troops, the search for new methods for training army athletes.
the meeting was attended by representatives of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Saint Lucie, Saint Vincent and Grenada and the Permanent Representative of the Dominican Republic.
they; " regional branch of Nr Otan party, veterans, youth, representatives of non-governmental organizations, doctors and social workers of area.
In December last year, the "Treaty on Good-Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21st Century between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan" entered into force.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the participants of the meeting for their support and wished success in the work.
In April-May, enterprises, organizations, educational institutions of the city will organize honors for war and labor veterans, meetings, congratulations to the disabled and participants in the Second World War, widows of dead and dead soldiers and veterans of the labor front.
During the meeting, the Head of State noted the merits of N. Nazarbayev in establishing interreligious and interethnic harmony in the country and noted the recognition of Kazakhstan's model of interethnic and interreligious harmony in the world, the statement said.
we have a two-room parking lot and a suburban platform in the project, "said K. Joikhanov.
He accepted with gratitude the invitation to the VIII Astana Economic Forum, which will be held on May 21-22 this year.
veterans of our region are provided with a full apartment.
the production of food, beverages, tobacco, paper and engineering products has decreased.
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on the change in output indices for the main sectors, such as agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to 67-68%.
successful implementation of projects depends on the level of affordable financing and the growth of logistics, communication infrastructure, the trade sector, "he said.
they are engaged in providing a mining and jaeger company (delivery of military cargo).
the European Union is inclined to further strengthen cooperation with Kazakhstan and to continue strong support for important political and economic reforms under your leadership, covering a new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation. the european union is fully committed to strengthening further cooperation with kazakhstan and continues strong support for the important political and economic reforms under your leadership .
According to him, 5 people's reforms of the president will be used in response to modern challenges, and will also bring the economy to a new level.
As Bashmakov noted, the results of the competition will be announced in December this year.
inter-ethnic relations in Kazakhstan are not a threat, but a guarantee of national security in the country. the interethnic relations in kazakhstan are not the threat ; they are the guarantor of national security of our country .
During the briefing, the issues of improving the operation of airports, improving the quality of service and further development will be discussed.
The heads of the Institute of Economics, RGP Nauka, the Institute of Philosophy, Political Science and Religious Studies of the Committee of Science of the Ministry of Education and Science drew attention to the fact that the announcement of innovative industrialization, infrastructure development as one of the main priorities of the country became an important event for scientists.
According to the head of state, during the working trip of the Prime Minister to the People's Republic of China, an agreement was reached on the construction of dozens of processing enterprises in Kazakhstan.
The organizers of the tournament were the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Paralympic Committee, the RCB "Federation of Modern and Sports Dances," the center for disabled people "friendship" independent life. "
today is the favorite holiday of all Kazakhstanis - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan. today is the most favorite holiday of our kazakhstanis - day of unity of people of kazakhstan .
It is also necessary to build a new smelting plant in Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of Russia Vladimir Putin, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan and President of Kyrgyzstan Almazbek Atambayev. the meeting was attended by presidents of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , russia vladimir putin , belarus aleksander lukashenko , as well as armenia serzh sargsyan and kyrgyzstan almazbek atambayev .
we supported the action of the akbek "Children's Educational Center" in the regional center.
dairy products, poultry meat, sausages, confectionery, drinks, etc.
During the work, specific reports were presented to inspectors from the teams of the following parts of the Bundeswehr: 1st Panzer Division (Hanover), 9th Panzer Brigade to Support the Training Process (Munster), 21st Panzer Brigade (Augustdorf) 12th Panzer Brigade (Amberg), 31st Parachute Regiment (Zedorf Dwelling), 10th Transport and Helicopter Regiment (Zedorf Dwelling), 100th Engineer-S-Sapper Regiment apper Regiment er Regiment.
young replenishment here comes from akmol, Zhambyl, West Kazakhstan, Mangistau and North Kazakhstan regions.
Kyrgyzstan will consider all possibilities for fruitful work within the EAEU, the formation of a single market for goods, services and capital, and most importantly, the free movement of labor resources within the union, "he assured.
Because the current economy of Kazakhstan and the pace of social development are impressive.
we are ready and interested in increasing cooperation with Kazakhstani companies, we want to get as many domestic goods as possible. we want to strengthen cooperation with kazakhstan companies and to buy domestic goods .
Next year we will open the doors of a huge market that will reflect our efforts. in the past year we have managed to make the future closer .
As of January 1 of this year, the country has 13.2 million tons of grain.
Now the government is required the same, effective, sometimes strong-willed action, "the Foreign Minister added.
According to him, the logo received the consent of the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The event focused on section 4, uniformity and unity, on the work of the Assembly.
and zhol "more than 30 thousand kilometers of highways, more than 8 thousand kilometers of the railroads will allow capitally or to reconstruct nrla.
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the Hollande for the invitation to visit France this year.
the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral relations and the international agenda.
According to the Governor's Office, 2014 new kindergartens for 5 places were opened in 800, a new school for 1200 places was built in the "young wing" microdistrict, a "Nazarbayev intellectual school" was opened in the mountain giant area.
in the nomination "waste disposal and recycling" LLP "Investment group" Eco-March. "
This year, the forum is held for the first time using smart navigation.
This year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution. this year we celebrate important milestones in the history of our country - the 20th anniversary of kazakhstan people 's assembly , the 70th anniversary of victory in the great patriotic war , the 20th anniversary of the constitution .
The meeting discussed the development of family and demographic policy, the active participation of women in the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the new economic policy "Nұr path - the way to the future," the implementation of the gender equality strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2006-2016.
2.1 million tenge is provided for the design of the city on Victory Day from the local budget.
as part of this project, we will implement up to 5 projects in the budget sector per year, "he added.
According to N.Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan should move from manual management to effective management.
this is just a small example.
the third stage (December) is the expert stage, where the work is being examined, "the Akprat Center of East Kazakhstan region said in a statement.
the president called on all Kazakhstanis to become patriots and buy domestic goods.
China, Russia, Kazakhstan and a number of other states are actively participating in the formation of a single platform for cooperation in the development of trade, transport and ligistics infrastructure, "said B. Sagintayev.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the head of the region noted that "new dawn," "infirmary" and "e" are potential in the region today. zaitenov. "
we're sure we're picking it up.
this project is due to the need to develop the socio-economic infrastructure of the city.
According to the state revenue department, 2,191 residential objects worth 14,695,943 thousand tenge, 415 unused objects worth 7,805,342 thousand tenge, 234 objects worth 4,025,580 thousand tenge were sold.
the new institute will include representatives of business and science.
the telegram says that bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Italy, based on friendship, mutual trust and strategic partnership, are strengthened for the benefit of our peoples.
this is a memorable date symbolizing the freedom and breadth of our state. this holiday symbolizes freedom and power of our country .
now the state expects you to increase production volumes, create jobs, tax payments, as well as create competitive products and invest in new technologies, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
third - climate change today reaches those cases when a person cannot predict, "the president said.
The estimated cost of the polyclinic under construction is 1399 million tenge, the delivery of the facility is scheduled for July 1, 2015.
The Foreign Minister noted that Kazakhstan considers Saudi Arabia as an important partner in the Arab and Muslim world.
The international observer also shared his impressions of the electoral company in Kazakhstan.
on my behalf will be awarded to my representatives in the regions, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
The Speaker of the Majilis informed the Ambassador about the important programs implemented in Kazakhstan within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and Nұrly Zhol.
During the meeting, K. Massimov reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the main socio-economic indicators, the implementation of important state programs, as well as the current activities of the national commission on modernization.
As previously reported, events in the capital dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War and Defender of the Fatherland Day will be attended by 260 war veterans and 70 escorts, and a military parade on Red Square in Moscow - 6 war veterans and 6 escorts.
at the maze level, the best results were shown by the teams of the Kyrgyz Republic.
To congratulate all Kazakhstanis who have shown their activity for our children, our future. let me congratulate all kazakhstan , demonstrate their involvement in our future , the future of our country and our children .
we took such measures to get them on their feet.	but how long are they going to get on their feet ? ,  the president said .
issues of trade and economic partnership, tourism development, visa regime and direct flights between the capitals of the two countries were discussed in the Ministry of Economy of Latvia.
Work to strengthen the family in the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan should become one of the main tasks of the national commission.
In 2015, we celebrate a significant day - the 70th anniversary of the great victory. in 2015 we will celebrate the great date , the 70th anniversary of the great victory .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted specific factors affecting the economy.
these are India, Vietnam, Iran, Turkey, Israel, Egypt and other rapidly developing states, "he said.
our common goal is to prepare young people for history, peacekeepers in the defense of the Fatherland, to teach them to keep their homeland on the max, "he said.
Recall that today the inauguration ceremony of Nursultan Nazarbayev - the official assumption of office of the President of Kazakhstan took place in the capital.
According to K. Zhakupov, a high-tech Saigon park engaged in the manufacture of microelectronics, nanotechnologies, energy saving is of particular interest for Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the main purpose of the visit is to promote Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, as well as to discuss issues of expanding inter-parliamentary cooperation between the countries.
Also during the meeting, great gratitude was expressed to the Iranian side for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan for temporary membership in the UN Security Council from 2017 to 2018.
From the beginning of the year, we began to receive reports from respondents in electronic form. since the beginning of last year we began to accept reports from respondents in electronic form .
special guests: joseph kobzon, shamil tarpishchev, svetlana bondarchuk, alla spira, maxim fadeev, konstantin meladze.
in the near future we will find a solution to this problem, "said the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
as soon as possible, this system was organized in the capital, the Samruk-kazyna Foundation decided to improve the project and increase the bike park to 1000 bicycles, and the number of stations to 150.
According to the Asian Development Bank, from 2015 to 2016, the growth rate of Asian countries is 6.3%, "the expert added.
most of the oil is spent on transportation, another part on petrochemistry, "the minister concluded.
Thus, today we are conducting the first explanatory work, "said N. Aldabergenov.
According to the Secretary General, such organizations exist in Belarus, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.
At the end of the event, the seminar participants got acquainted with the professional practice of students in fashion salons "Mayra," "Dinara," "Gulnur."
In 2014, industrial enterprises produced products worth 1098 billion tenge with an increase of 10% by 2013.
The parties noted the particular relevance of combining efforts in the framework of countering terrorism, ensuring national and international security, exchanging operational information and experience, noting the significant potential for legal cooperation between the two countries.
During the presentation, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy a. Yelemesov informed the participants about the international initiatives of Kazakhstan, the message of the President of Kazakhstan "bright path," the atomic project, the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions and preparations for the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017."
Also, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and huahe international agreed to open new joint ventures and attract goods and services from China to the Kazakh market.
competitions consisted of two stages.
during this period, trade and transport, construction, communications and other industries increased significantly.
The electoral process that we practice in Kazakhstan is a vivid manifestation of compliance with national legislation. we are convinced that the practice of the electoral process , which characterizes kazakhstan , is the practice of strict adherence to national legislation .
In addition, the head of state signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Gambling," aimed at improving state regulation of the gambling sector and strengthening responsibility for violations in this area.
According to him, Kazakhstan is negotiating with the countries of the European free trade community, which does not include four countries.
stable and prosperous Kazakhstan meets the main interests of China, "he said.
the main feature of the forum is that it consists of elements of a green economy.
The capital and Washington are successfully developing constructive cooperation on a wide range of issues, "said K. Tokayev.
The amount of the key transfer contract is more than $1.2 billion.
then there will be order. then there will be the order .
Thus, 180 billion tenge was allocated for the provision of socially rented houses on benefits from the national fund, Baiterek holding - 145 billion tenge and local executive bodies - 35 billion tenge.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Swiss Confederation appointed Mukhtar Pyatenov Acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Order of the Holy Jerusalem John, Rhodes and Maltese Sovereign Military Hospitals.
A number of small and medium-sized enterprises producing finished products have begun to implement investment projects in the food and light industries and the construction industry.
One of the key issues is the development of the Eurasian cotingent - the modernization of the great silk road.
1 year since the opening of the museum was not, and there were 160 thousand people, of which 10 thousand were foreigners.
The heating season of the 2014-2015 school year includes 731 facilities, of which 547 are secondary schools, 76 kindergartens, 7 special institutions, 74 additional education organizations and 27 technical and vocational education organizations, the report said.
"- said the head of the train" My Kazakhstan "ruslan barbasov.
In turn, First Deputy Prime Minister of Tajikistan D.Said noted the high level of relations between the two countries.
The conference was attended by representatives of the railway administrations of the Baltic States, Bulgaria, Vietnam, China, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Slovakia.
The President of Ukraine thanked the President of Kazakhstan for supporting his country in a difficult period of its history.
The head of state pays great attention to ensuring the economic security of the country. the head of state does fare-the-well to ensure the economic security of the country .
the tax paid by 21 enterprises over the past 4 years compensates for the costs of repairing roads, water pipelines, heating and electricity.
currently, 490.9 thousand people receive state social benefits for disability, 178.7 thousand people receive for the loss of the breadwinner, 5.6 thousand people by age, the report said.
H. Rouhani congratulated the head of state on his victory in the presidential election and taking office.
Most of the grain (89.6%) was harvested in urban elevators.
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
indeed, in Kazakhstan all nationalities live in peace and harmony.
senators became the owners of the orders "parasat," "parasat."
In conclusion, the Secretary of State noted that the memorandum will attract investment in the development of a green economy, women's entrepreneurship and create new jobs.
As the fruits of business negotiations, the president of Ktj uk signed a protocol on further cooperation with Vice Mayor Askar Mamin and Chongqing.
According to the department, in January-December 2014 year, 2,179,3 million passengers were transported in the city, including 451.3 million people (20.7%) transported through transport institutions of the city, and 1,728,0 million people (79.3%) through individual entrepreneurs.
In the main directions of our cultural concept, the development of a creative and cultural-creative cluster is envisaged. the main directions of our cultural concept envisage the development of creative and cultural and creative clusters .
According to him, Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for proficiency in any language, especially Kazakh.
This bill was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state on the need for comprehensive regulation of aspects of long-term business interaction with the state in the investment sector.
now the government is reviewing the budget, and next week it will submit it to parliament, "said Mr. Karagusova.
Representatives of Kazakh and Singaporean business associations will discuss issues of trade and economic cooperation.
this bill is contained in the program article of the head of state "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps to the society of universal labor" of July 10, 2012 and "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050" of December 2012.
Thus, as of May 1 of this year in Almaty, the number of active business entities amounted to 175,958 units, which is 12.7% more than in the same period last year.
Expenses of the republican budget in 2015 will amount to 7,244,5 billion tenge, which is 610.7 billion tenge less than the previously approved volume.
today we are waiting for the visit of Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev to Iran. nowadays we expect the visit of mr. nazarbayev to iran .
In accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 44 observers from four international organizations and four foreign states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, it is necessary to open new directions for major financial centers, such as News York, Tokyo, Singapore, "the head of state said.
Today, the Samruk-kazyna Foundation, together with its letters, launched a new project called the "need map," that is, any Kazakhstani today can provide some concrete assistance, "he said.
According to the press service of the Senate, within the framework of the flexible parliamentary forum, the Kazakh delegation met with the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and discussed issues of bilateral cooperation.
Tedh's mission is to spread decent ideas. the mission of tedx is extensive use of the worthy ideas .
today we are implementing the tasks set. today , we begin to realize its objectives .
they assured the President of Kazakhstan of their readiness to provide qualified medical assistance to the population.
rescuers provide humanitarian assistance and food, "he said.
Over the past few years, the country's military-diplomatic corps has been replenished with representatives of Japan, Hungary, Nigeria, Yemen, Uganda, Sri Lanka and Sweden.
Kazakhstan is a multinational state.	the main celebration will take place on the capital 's square -  kazakh ely . "
Every year, the number of issues under consideration and the number of women entrepreneurs who take part in our forum increase, "said Abdykalikova.
He noted that thanks to the visionary policy of the President of Kazakhstan, all conditions have been created in the country for the use and strengthening of the state language.
in addition, in addition to the state budget, private business will be involved in finance.
among them are members and veterans of the assembly in all regions, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, deputies of parliament, heads of central executive bodies, political parties, religious associations, non-governmental organizations, diplomatic missions of foreign states, rectors of higher educational institutions, representatives of scientific and creative intelligentsia and horticulture.
I hope that bilateral and multilateral cooperation between our countries will intensify, and also express support for initiatives aimed at expanding general cooperation, "the congratulation says.
the number of companies will be reduced from 600 to 500, "the report said.
there was no such enterprise in Kazakhstan before, its products are also new.
in this sense, infrastructure modernization means not only the construction of roads, but also the creation of a multiplier effect: enterprises are provided with orders, new settlements appear, citizens receive work and income, and budget revenues. in this case , the modernization of the infrastructure is not just roads construction , but also a multiplier effect : to provide enterprises with orders , new settlements , citizens are employed and have income , the budget has revenues .
2-ROOM apartment for 30 square meters. m is 15 thousand tenge, 3-room apartment - 23 thousand tenge, "he said.
we want to thank you on behalf of all parents. on behalf of all parents we want to thank you .
in dusseldorf at a meeting with the Minister for Federation, Eu and Garden Affairs a. Issues of improvement of bilateral trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian relations between Kazakhstan and the Northern Rhine-Westphalia were discussed.
The main thing for Kazakhstan is access to sales markets. the key for kazakhstan is to get market outlets .
in urban maslikhats, the number of women increased: Kostanay region - 30.6%, Karaganda - 28.5%.
In general, 126,786 Kazakhstanis graduate this year.
I believe that the voice of every Kazakhstani is important.
thus, kdb began to implement the second tranche of funds allocated from the national fund to finance projects in the manufacturing industry under the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
In 2014, the budget received 11.5 billion tenge from the payment of the issue.
To date, the "sypaga" program has low indicators.
veterans of the Baimuhan Abil war, Bahbay Almabeks, Alexander Morunov balls of Rakhimzhars, veteran of Kali Mukatayev labor, deputy chairman of the branch of the "veteran organization" of Astana, Yusenat Yusenov were awarded medals "For Valiant Labor."
Mayor of the district visited the building uniform.
According to the industrialization map, 2014 projects were implemented in 3: a house-building plant with a capacity of 50 thousand m2 per year, a feed mill with a capacity of 40 thousand tons per year and a complex-monolithic plant with a capacity of 60 thousand sq.m.
Minister e. The upcoming visit of the Turkish leader to Kazakhstan to participate in the second meeting of the Council of Strategic Cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Turkey was discussed during the meeting of Idrisov with the President R. Erdogan.
crisis, devaluation in general, prices have changed.
As the head of state noted, it is necessary to effectively use the land, "said the head of the city.
The volume of investments in the implementation of the project will amount to 32.7 billion tenge.
Recall that the President of Kazakhstan took the initiative of nationwide support for veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
representatives of state bodies, members of the government, deputies of the Majilis and the Senate and business representatives are invited to the congress of the mining and metallurgical industry in Kazakhstan.
Only those who can work, have a profession, experience, means and equipment should receive land, "the president explained.
As the president said, it is necessary to move towards the stability of the state system, so the decisive side here will be the state apparatus. as the president said , we need to move to the stability of the state system , so the key link is the state apparatus .
companies will consider this opportunity, find partners, and then start concluding contracts, "said Asel Ergazieva, deputy chairman of kaznex invest JSC.
in addition, a "bat" and a "student village" are being built.
As part of the project, 31 workplaces have been created, "he said.
this is the principle of the main budget policy of our state, and they are important today, "the deputy said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the event was held with the participation of the country's leadership and parliamentarians, as well as high-level foreign guests, including Brazilian President D. Rousseff, the former Spanish king juan carlos and, Cuban, Paraguayan, Chilean and other heads of state held in the building of the Uruguayan general assembly "palacio legislativo" (palace of legislation).
In addition, during a meeting with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, the features of Hungary's foreign policy strategy "opening to the east" were discussed in a dialogue.
This year we will develop a bill on the commercialization of the achievements of scientific and technical activities. this year we will develop the draft project on the commercialization of scientific and technological activities .
if we do not support the business, we must understand that the situation can become complicated. there must be an understanding that if today we do not support the business , the situation could get worse .
we will continue to cooperate with strategic partners - Russia, the People's Republic of China, the United States, the countries of the European Union, the Islamic world.
At the suggestion of the Central Council of the Organization of Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as part of the delegation from Kazakhstan, there will be veterans from the cities of Astana, Almaty, Karaganda, Pavlodar and South Kazakhstan regions.
tolerance and unity are the main value of the national idea of ​ ​ an eternal country, "he said.
the course is certified by Natal and is included in the training and training of military personnel under the Peace Partnership programme.
Also, a plenary session was held within the framework of the forum, within the framework of which factors of Kazakhstan's investment potential for 2015-2019 were presented.
the commission is ready to support your country's efforts in this direction, "the telegram says.
the national company pays for these services or asks the government to maintain the wages of these workers during the expo.
the first stage of the program of industrial and innovative development of the country has been completed.
a package is being developed to improve the special economic zone, "said the head of government of Kazakhstan.
this will achieve balanced development of all regions of the country, optimize economic development and the social demographic situation.
The purpose of the agreement is to strengthen and expand economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Vietnam by creating favorable conditions for investment.
2.n.a. biographical data of Nazarbayev;
Also, as part of the visit, a meeting of the Andorran Foreign Minister with the occupant of the Saboya Sunye took place.
So, last year, the courts examined more than 1 million 200 thousand cases.
The Foreign Minister expressed confidence that the Caribbean countries will take an active part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
In turn, Eric Fournier, Director of the Continental Europe Department of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Development, called the contribution of Kazakhstan to the negotiation process on the Iranian nuclear program and the settlement of the situation in Ukraine.
This year, their number in the armed forces of Kazakhstan increased 3.5 times.
we do not have financial capabilities, but we have a comprehensive clearly worded letter, also the project is ready, we called this complex indigenous. "
That is, we will show the time of EXPO-2017, "Anuarbek added.
among them are members and veterans of the assembly in all regions of the country, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, deputies of parliament, heads of central and executive bodies, political parties and religious associations, diplomatic missions of non-governmental organizations, foreign states, scientific, creative intelligentsia, representatives of the media and rectors of universities, "the statement said.
in particular, it includes offices, a hotel and a residential complex.
In order to maximize the protection of investors' rights, the institution of an investment ombudsman was created in June last year. "
the exhibition will last six months and 180 days in a row, until October 31.
according to him, this exhibition reflects only some moments of the suicidal war of those years.
the total number of jobs created - 1378 permanent (including in the village - 856), temporary - 132 (in the village - 132).
Recall that the VIII Astana Economic Forum is taking place in the capital.
in this context, he particularly appreciated the contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev to the process of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
the meeting discussed issues of regional development, ensuring socio-political stability, uninterrupted completion of the heating season, preparation for spring field work, as well as budget finance management, price and tariff monitoring.
The November path of President Nursultan Nazarbayev is the way to the future. "
According to the head of the kindergarten, the gulzhanat of kazygalieva, for two years the school has been operating under the Young Ulan program.
The Secretary of State noted that the implementation of joint investment projects should be aimed at infrastructure modernization of the economy and the social sphere.
the crisis - the world, the domestic economic crisis - did not affect Kazakhstan. the crisis is global ; there is no domestic economic crisis in kazakhstan .
It is noted that 6,219,4 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the program.
a number of them were represented by structural units of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan: Kazakh, Russian, Polish, Tatar, Ukrainian, Korean, Ingush, Uzbek and Gypsy nationalities.
more than 170 paintings from veteran and military years.
In particular, Karim Massimov met with the President of Rwanda in the Kagame field, during the meeting issues of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries were discussed.
together we are making great efforts to increase cooperation in trade, economic, humanitarian, etc.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that a large and unique enterprise of central Asia will make a great contribution to strengthening the economy of the region.
he spoke about the main areas of issues voiced by the newly elected President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the inauguration.
the parties agreed to actively exchange information on new projects within the framework of the working group in order to successfully implement bilateral projects.
The project of the green quarter complex is based on new energy saving technologies.
The teaching staff and student youth of Atyrau State University named after H. Dosmukhamedov consider it important to give the head of state a mandate to implement the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
the International Atomic Energy Agency (Magate) was an example of a new organization.
According to the execution of expenses, the competence of the state revenue committee amounted to 103.8%, of which 101.8% were included in the republican budget, 110.5% in the local budget.
the program developed by us does not include military themes, we perform classical music that promotes high art.
the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Russia also considered a number of topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
support for small, medium and large enterprises implementing projects in the field of the processing industry - will be systematically carried out through the use of standard financial and service tools within the framework of the programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Productivity 2020," "Agrobusiness 2020," the agency said.
The company includes 24.565 thousand km.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that one of the priorities of our country is the education of a worthy generation.
groups competed in eleven types of competitions: rigid physique, dismantling and assembling weapons, running 200, 400 and 800 meters, running 2,000 meters, providing first aid, passing obstacle courses, combat training and firing from pneumatic weapons.
amantai zhankeula kurengbekov was appointed head of the state security service of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The agreement is aimed at removing technical barriers to mutual trade between the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States that are not members of the customs union, simplifying the way of importing products of the CIS countries to the single customs territory of the customs union, expanding mutual trade, economic and investment cooperation, the committee on international affairs, security and defense says.
According to him, the country should have stability for business development.
the regional command of the capital was assessed on military training, mobilization training, combat readiness, military service, the state of military discipline and law and order and other subjects.
A feature of this project is the joint work of Russian drama theaters in Kazakhstan, Belarus, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
the specific gravity of the Yesilsky district is 20.2%.
I am grateful for the invitation to Kazakhstan. i am very grateful for the invitation .
as part of the delegation of the Almaty region, I first took part in the XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party.
he walked through the streets of akjol - Abylai Khan Avenue - Kabanbai Batyr Avenue ("Asia Park") - Baiterek monument - Akjol Street.
all our victory is connected with our country, "said A. Lavrentiev.
we look forward to this document being signed if possible this year, "the letter says.
It is worth noting that during the event, participants raised a number of issues, such as investor rights, resolving investment differences, improving investment legislation.
Do not postpone these questions for tomorrow, start work in January, "said Erik Sultanov.
For our part, we will do everything necessary to strengthen friendly relations between the two states, "the telegram says.
today we are facing the image of the mother who brought us to life, "he said.
Thus, voters are given the opportunity to get complete, reliable and objective information about the timing, stages and progress of the election campaign, the press service reports.
Currently, buses run from Kyzylorda to Almaty, the capital, Shymkent and Turkestan.
The NPP creates an investment committee that will monitor the economic validity of all projects.
I am in the year of the 20th anniversary of the signing of an agreement on friendship and cooperation between our countries. this year , treaty on friendship and cooperation between kazakhstan and ukraine marks the 20th anniversary .
In general, according to the joint plan of the Government and the National Bank of Kazakhstan, in December 2014, the CDC provided 13 commercial partners with 50 billion tenge of the first depositor of the national fund for long-term lending of large projects in the future.
Presentation meetings were also held with the leadership of this center, the "center of globalization, management and competition" and the school of business of fukua, during which modern and future cooperation of Kazakhstan with educational institutions was discussed.
as well as cooks, bakers, accountants, economists, furniture makers, physics teachers, mathematicians.
The company's products are in great demand in the cities of Astana, Kokshetau, Pavlodar and in the region.
In this regard, according to the Minister, in addition to the funds allocated from the National Fund, it is planned to attract 92.5 billion tenge for lending to SMEs through the bank.
for a young state, this is no less than an indicator.
In turn, the Kazakh diplomat informed the king about the main trends in the economic development of Kazakhstan and possible directions of deepening bilateral cooperation.
I congratulate everyone on the opening of the Year of Kha.
Special attention in the capital is paid to supporting veterans of the Great Patriotic War, "the report said.
wonderful nature, beloved mountains, although years have passed, they are still beautiful, "said the head of state.
In turn, as the deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted, the new version of the law "On State Youth Policy" establishes the authorized Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, which is responsible for developing the legal norms necessary for youth employment.
today among important concepts there are two synonyms - independence and n.nazarbayev. independence and president are two synonyms , moral , political , spiritual , important concepts and state .
It is worth noting that during the implementation of the first stage of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan," the life expectancy of Kazakhstanis increased, and the mortality rate decreased.
the Kazakh railway delegation was headed by Vice President Bauyrzhanov.
During the event, poems of the patriotic spirit were read in Kazakh, Russian, English and Korean.
therefore, we owe them all our lives, "he says.
Nrla zhol", aimed at providing infrastructure development of the country, job creation which will have multiplicative impact on all economy.
Opening the meeting, the head of the region Yerik Sultanov in the annual message to the people "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" instructed the Head of State Nursultan Abishevich to ensure economic stability by improving industry, ensure the development of transport, energy, industrial and social infrastructure, small and medium-sized businesses, the Governor's office reported.
if many issues are reflected in the generalized state, then the state apparatus received specific tasks at "100 steps."
I believe that the presidential election in Kazakhstan was very legal. i believe that the early elections of the president of kazakhstan are absolutely legitimate .
in the building of a three-story complex 174 shops, 18 cafes and restaurants, as well as a cinema of 10 halls.
according to him, among these investments there are foreign direct investment.
In this regard, the electoral process in Kazakhstan received high points on all requirements, the observer said.
Issues of bilateral cooperation and friendship in international markets were discussed during the talks.
During the conversation, the Head of State noted that the development of small and medium-sized businesses is the basis of the good economic situation of the country, wished the participants to implement the plans.
Compared to April 2014, 1 the population increased by 255 thousand people or 1.48%.
The forum was attended by representatives of the competent authorities of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan.
the parties discussed issues of bilateral relations and relevant international issues, including issues of Kazakhstan's development for 2017-2018. non-stability in the UN Security Council.
This year, the theme of the forum was "dialogue of civilizations: life without war."
Experts, special institutes are working in this direction, "said A. Nichkasov.
Presenting the draft resolution for discussion, Deputy Chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan V. Foos noted that the current version of the rules provides for the preparation of absentee certificates for the right to vote with an appendix of 1% (one percent) of the total number of voters included in the lists.
in Kazakhstan, it passes through the south, including Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Priority for investment in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, 43.4 billion tenge was allocated to these areas, the Governor's Office reported.
The volume of investments in fixed assets is 26.5 billion tenge.	the total investment to main capital was 26.5 billion tenge .	1,23
our task is education.	our task is education .	1,23
the text of the law is published in the press.	the texts of the law are published in the press .	1,23
The meeting was attended by a member of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the meeting has been attended by member of the central election commission of the republic of kazakhstan lyazzat suleimen .	1,23
As the speakers noted, the Kazakh state played an important role in the development of the processes of political, economic and spiritual concentration of the Kazakh people.	the speakers noted that the kazakh nomadic state played the important role in the rapid development of the processes of political , economic and spiritual consolidation of the kazakh tribes , the formation of their ethnic unity and integrity .	1,23
As part of the program, the infrastructure of Aktobe, Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan regions will be carried out, which will provide large-scale entrepreneurship with the necessary infrastructure, "he said.
The parties noted the similarity of the positions of the two states on current regional and international issues.
In the 90s, 3 million 690 thousand people left Kazakhstan, a little more than 14 million people remained in the country. in the 90th kazakhstan was left by 3.69 million people , only over 14 million people stayed in the country .
Moisturizing technology has been introduced for 438 thousand hectares, which is 18% more than in 2013.
The private sector can view, analyze, and arrive at the solution needed to work. the private sector can view the data , analyze , process , make conclusions for their work .
During the seminar, issues of financial, logistical and information support for the election campaign were considered, "the central election commission said in a statement.
The transport industry of Kazakhstan can provide the needs for the creation of an economic belt of the silk road, "said the Vice Minister for Investment and Development.
Governor's Office of the region, capital "Expo-2017" International secretariat "g-global" with the support of "kazakhstan innovations" this event, organized by the Constitutional Court, in their opinion, will give a great impetus to attract to the international exhibition "Expo-2017," as well as to develop scientific potential, introduce advanced ideological projects and technologies directly into production, "- said in a statement.
poultry meat exports for the year increased from 2,620 tons to 5,295 tons, which is 2 times more to 13.4 million dollars, "he said.
9 . completion of the 1st stage of construction of a 21 MW wind farm in Zhambyl region (9 MW)
The forum is attended by young professionals from all regions of the country - science, business, education, medicine, industry and the non-profit sector.
In total, about 200 students will take part in the competition, the national company said.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, the conference will be attended by academicians and scientists of Kazakhstan, members of the national scientific council, heads of Nazarbayev university, higher educational institutions and scientific organizations, heads of laboratories of collective and engineering applications, other workers of science and higher education, as well as invited deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that today construction companies are trying to minimize their costs during the construction of the facility. it should be noted that now the construction companies , developers and customers seek to minimize their costs during the construction phase .
today we are strengthening friendship and stability in the country.
The event was opened with the choreographic composition "Friendship."
it is also expected that the launch of the organization will allow to supply Kazakhstan grain and other food products to member states, implement large investment and infrastructure projects in Kazakhstan and other countries.
we studied the experience of South Korea in detail, in general their experience in this area has achieved significant success, "the minister said.
during the round table, statue a. Ambassador in response to the existing challenges facing the State. Nazarbayev informed about 5 proposed institutional reforms.
Contacts with partners within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union will become of particular importance: Russia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia, the head of state concluded.
this is our civil position, constitutional rights and patriotic duty, "the authors write.
our economic union is an open organization for mutually beneficial cooperation with all integration associations of the world, including the European Union.
During the meeting, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 T. Mermegiyaev noted that in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, the share of Kazakh content will increase in the construction of the complex and the involvement of the country's business communities in the international event.
Chairman of the Board of National managing holding Baiterek kuandyk bishimbayev, chairman of the board of Kazakhstan Mortgage Company bolat dosmukhamedov, chairman of the board of Baiterek development bakhyt dzhaksybayev will take part in the press conference.
he stressed that President Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev emphasized that "the number of war veterans is declining, so we should not spare any help and care, so as not to regret when they leave."
The Head of State also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, prevention and elimination of emergency situations."
The upcoming session discussed issues of intensifying cooperation between the countries of Asia and Europe, as well as the role of Kazakhstan in the integration processes between the two regions.
Working with veterans is one of the main areas of the Nұr Otan party.
In 2010-2014, 1400 applications were considered under the innovation grant, 227 projects for a total of 9.9 billion tenge were approved for financing.
Addressing the youth representatives gathered at the event, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for comprehensive development and obtaining high-quality education.
we should discuss when the group will work, "the president added.
the tasks established by the new law are being implemented, as well as issues that need to be solved to increase the effectiveness of the law, the senator said.
sanctions, currency and trade wars exacerbate the situation in the world.
the "Nұrly zhol" program is a long-conceived project that will last several generations.
the main goal of the concept is the formation of a model for increasing business responsibility, which, in turn, will contribute to solving economic, social and environmental issues.
Introduction of a post factum customs clearance regime.
For the first time, an economic association with a powerful natural and resource potential, a strategically important transport, energy and technological system of a global and regional scale will be created on a voluntary, equal and mutually beneficial basis, "the head of state said.
K. Dzhakupov stressed the importance of strengthening cooperation between the two countries in the framework of paired, flexible and Asem cooperation.
competitions held at the initiative of the library of the head of state were supported by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Department of Education of the city of Astana, the regional scientific and practical center "Capital Talent."
The draft road map is currently under consideration by the Ministry of National Economy.
Our main task now is to train them, "N. Yerimbetov said at a meeting of the CEC.
In general, by the beginning of the 20th century, 5.6 million people had moved to Kazakhstan.
intend to continue supporting projects of the state industrialization map, "the company said in a statement.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. m. Saparbayev, Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. sarinzhipov and Turkey, Iran, Korea, Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, etc., more than 200 historians, philosophers, theologians, philologists, orientalists, ethnographers and props, historians, employees of research institutes and research centers.
The national company "Astana Expo-2017" together with the Ministry of Education of Kazakhstan initiates educational projects among students of Kazakh schools and colleges.
kindergarten is good. kindergarten is good .
we continue industrialization, increase labor productivity.
I demand it.
This year 126,786 students will graduate.
During the Spanish Civil War, World War II, the fates of representatives of the Spanish Republican Party and the Blue Division, who opposed each other but gathered in the same camp, were demonstrated.
hammers in German, Uighur, Ukrainian, Chechen, Tatar, Azerbaijani costumes showed the culture of peoples living in Kazakhstan.
at the same time, the queue of children in kindergartens is 25 thousand children, including with a growth of 6 thousand, in families - 11 and districts - 8 thousand children.
During the talks, the parties discussed the state of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, the implementation of joint investment projects in priority sectors of the economy.
The heads of departments noted the commitment and unity of Kazakhstan and Bulgaria in ensuring international and regional security at the modern level.
The sides noted the dynamic development of relations in the field of military and military-technical cooperation, military education, training.
we are confident that elections will be held in accordance with international rights and rules, as national ones.
During the conversation, the measures taken by Kazakhstan to ensure infrastructure and industrial-innovative development were discussed.
As part of the barrier-free future project, the Nұr Otan Party actively supports such initiatives.
- All programmes, including the Business and Employment Road Map and the Bright Path, are aimed at employment, which is one of the main tasks facing the State.
As previously reported, the results of the presidential elections in Kazakhstan according to the results of exit polls were distributed as follows: n.nazarbayevka - 97.5%, smoke - 1.87%, a.kusainovka - 0.63%.
The President of Kazakhstan focused on the challenges facing the state.
a Kazakhstan volunteer alliance has been created.
we take all measures for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan. " clark.
Unfortunately, today the world is worried.
turbulence in the economy can last up to 10-20 years if the severe crisis does not drag on. a lukewarm turbulence in the economy may last over 10-20 years , whereas an acute crisis does not last long .
3 . central and local executive bodies, as well as state bodies directly subordinate and accountable to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, take measures to implement the program.
During the visit, the Norwegian delegation will hold meetings with the Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan Leo Mukhamediuly and representatives of Kostanay, Pavlodar, Karaganda state universities.
The President of our country highly appreciates your activities aimed at improving the international situation, as well as reforming the socio-political life and economy of the kingdom, "noted K. Tokayev.
interethnic harmony is our main achievement. inter-ethnic accord is our main asset .
The sides discussed a wide range of issues of developing bilateral cooperation, paying special attention to fuel, energy, agriculture, transport and communications.
According to the members of the Council, holding early elections in our country in the context of the global economic crisis will make it possible to effectively implement the Path to the Future program, develop programs aimed at the development of the country, indicated in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
now that we have begun great reforms, we will build a path to eternal country. -he said.
adapts to the standards of the member states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation in the development of education and health care, "N. Nazarbayev emphasized.
it is equal to 102.1% of last year's figure, "the minister said.
For this reason, hunger cannot affect the work of each sowing center, "he said.
The volume of targeted transfers from the National Fund due to the adjustment of the Nұrly zhol program increased by 76 billion tenge and amounted to 70835 billion tenge, "said the head of the Ministry of Finance.
Since the construction of the new highway, infrastructure work has been carried out here, a number of social facilities have been built.
therefore, it is natural to connect all today's achievements of Kazakhstanis: sustainable economic growth, the development of democracy, interethnic harmony and social well-being with your name. "
According to the press service of the Senate, the committee on socio-cultural development and science is determined by the main committee on the bills "On minimum social standards and guarantees" and "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of minimum social standards and their guarantees."
In addition, 12.4% (from KZT594.3 billion to KZT4.8 trillion) was produced from the total volume of manufacturing industry due to the introduced map projects.
as well as on innovative projects in the field of technology and technology, geology and mining and metallurgy.
The presidents agreed to hold a meeting of the heads of state of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia in our country in the near future.
presenting the tariff program, Minister of National Economy e. Dossaev noted that "its main goal is to create an effective system for regulating natural monopolies."
in response to our global economic crisis, the new economic policy is a state program of industrial and innovative development and a "beam road," N. Nazarbayev said.
The Ambassador noted that the international exhibition "Expo-2017 in the capital," which is the first major event held in the space of the countries of the former council, opens up wide opportunities for Kazakhstan.
this is the first project to be introduced into an educational institution in Aktobe. this is the first educational institution in aktobe , where such a project is implemented .
I am sure that the people of Kazakhstan under your leadership will make joint efforts to achieve new, bright successes in the construction of the state and national modernization, "said Xi jinping.
the first day is the preparation of equipment, the second is the choice of weapons, the third is the qualifying stage.
The parade will feature 4 new aircraft brought from the Russian Federation, "he added.
I hope that the decisions planned for adoption at the meeting will further strengthen cooperation between the member states of the organization in the field of ensuring security and increasing the effectiveness of activities, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Nursultan Nazarbayev won 97.75% of the vote.
According to the Governor's Office, in 3-4 days after joining the new Sayran and Moscow stations, the number of users of the Almaty subway doubled and today exceeded 40 thousand people.
development and implementation of a large-scale project of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "big country - big family," which will strengthen the homogeneity of Kazakhstanis and create conditions for the formation of the integrity of civil society.
Recall that in Uralsk, under the chairmanship of the Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, they discussed the development of the manufacturing industry and infrastructure of the region, as well as carried out constant work of enterprises.
The project will increase annual oil production from 26.5 million tons to 38.6 million tons.
The event was held simultaneously in Astana, Almaty, Kokshetau, Kostanay, Semey.
we are developing, that is, we are gradually developing through evolution, in this sense our passport, parental law, state legal document are a vivid reflection of the development of Kazakhstani society, "B. Kaipova continued.
this is the civil and patriotic duty of every person, "said the deputy head of the culture department of Astana narima muhambetalin.
the new economic zone "Nrla zhol" has to become the beginning of development of all industries.
the action will end with the concert "My Kazakhstan," dedicated to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
this is the main policy of our state. "
During the meeting with the Latvian President A. Berzins, the parties noted the dynamic development of bilateral relations and discussed topical issues of international partnership.
In addition, as the head of state noted, this year Kazakhstan intends to join the World Trade Organization (WTO).
During the opening ceremony of the exhibition, a memorandum of mutual cooperation was signed with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the worlddidac association and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom Uak noted that the updated development strategy of the company was developed with the participation of international consultants and provides for increasing the efficiency of investment and operational activities, as well as labor productivity.
A number of questions on the development of the business sector were proposed by the chairman of the regional council of entrepreneurs of the askar makhambets.
The family is one of the oldest cities in Kazakhstan, and it deserves care and beauty. semey is one of the ancient cities of kazakhstan - deserves that we take care of it and gave it a modern architectural and neat appearance .
the most important issues will be discussed by the sports council at meetings at least twice a year.
According to the deputy chairman of the board, ktzh and kazatomprom are complex companies.
Last year, 69.3 thousand tons of dairy products, 19.6 thousand tons of meat products and 230.5 million pieces of eggs were delivered to the capital's market, the akimat reported.
Today, high awards are awarded to scientists, statesmen, representatives of business, public organizations, figures of culture and art, education and health care, manufacturers, the military, law enforcement officials.	nursultan nazarbayev noted the representatives of different areas : academics , government officials , business representatives , public organizations , art and culture , education and health care , industrials , military , law enforcement officials were awarded state prizes .	1,23
we have a loan portfolio, and there are no government councils, "he said.
from the moment the treaty enters into force, the President of Armenia will become a full member of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, and the Prime Minister will become a representative of the EEC.
over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has developed a kind of unique model of society, known as the Kazakh way to the whole world. "
In accordance with article 70, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, article 4 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan," in connection with the termination of the powers of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan upon taking office of the newly elected President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I decide: the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to fulfill its duties until the approval of the new composition of the Government of the Republic.
The activities of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan arouse our interest, we are studying in Aktobe region, this measure will give an additional impetus to the development of partnership between our countries, "he said.
secondly, to ensure transparency of all decisions taken. secondly , to ensure the transparency of decision-making for all to see , " nazarbayev continued .
According to him, exports of domestic goods are growing.
Currently, the electoral system of Kazakhstan is somewhat closer to democratic standards. " yakusheva.
According to the president of this country, the participation of Vietnamese companies in EXPO-2017 in the capital will give a new impetus to the development trend.
I am glad that in the future I will make efforts with you to maximize the development of the potential for cooperation of our countries, "the telegram says.
10 projects to improve the entrepreneurial sphere worth 3.0 billion tenge were approved and implemented.
exports grew by 22.5% and amounted to 3,61076.7 thousand US dollars, imports grew by 16.5% and amounted to 2,064,273.1 thousand US dollars, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, the international tactical and special peacekeeping exercises "Steppe Eagle-2015" will be held in two stages.
we have experience in transnational companies, there are such companies in the field of oil refining, we do not consider them, and all industries should work, "said the head of state.
we have a fund. we have reserves .
and in Kazakhstan there are long lines.
dear Kazakhstanis, eternal country "I want to congratulate you on the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
The country now has enough tools that domestic producers can take part in, especially within the framework of the Nұrly Zhol program.
benefits in the form of state support from the state.
it is aimed at mutual cooperation, promoting investment, developing the social sphere and introducing innovation.
Special attention was paid to passenger service, "he said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this hospital is located in a new building, equipped with modern equipment.
The XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan declares full support for the prominent initiatives of the head of state - the idea of ​ ​ a nationwide "eternal country," a new economic policy "nұrly zhol" and five institutional reforms.
my project is called "ecocala."
the first stage (June-July) of the discount system, attraction of pharmacy owners, local food producers, etc.
This is how we should educate our youth, "the president said.
According to the ministry, Kazakhstan is the only country in central Asia that adheres to all international security measures and tasks in the field of weapons.
we are constantly exchanging, developing. "
Kazakhstan is able to become the first, the main point at which goods moving along the north-south route will stop, especially within the eao. kazakhstan is able to become a major transit point for goods , following the direction north-south , especially in the framework of the eeu .
the main task of the head of state is the effective implementation of the Nұr zhol program.
the state creates favorable conditions for attracting investments in small and medium-sized private sector businesses, "he said.
birth rate increased by 1.5% compared to 2013 (2014). - 24.08, 2013 - 23.71), according to the Republic of Kazakhstan - 23.32.
This year, on the direct instructions of the head of state, we began work and present the al-Farabi Prize this year. this year , in accordance with the direct instruction of the president , we have started the work , and award al-farabi will be awarded this year .
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the meeting discussed issues of cooperation and modern relations between Kazakhstan and science.
This project is aimed at implementing the regional program "Nұrly zhol" in the social sphere, employment of the population, and regional development.
although I am Azerbaijani, but the language is Kazakh. i am glad that grew up in kazakhstan , for me it is great happiness - to know this language .
The main priority of work is working with law enforcement agencies. "
Gulshara Abdykalikova thanked the WHO European Bureau for the advisory and technical active assistance in the implementation of the State Program for Health Development for 2011-2015 "Healthy Kazakhstan," initiated by the President N.A. Nazarbayev.
at the second stage - "one country - one family."
During the meeting, the technical regulations of the customs union "On the safety of agricultural and forestry tractors and trailers for them," "On roads" and "On the safety of attractions" were discussed.
In addition, the ambassador drew attention to the efforts of the country's leadership, the personal president of N.A. Nazarbayev. strengthening global and regional security, ensuring appropriate international dialogue, and further sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
122 of them decided to legalize, 248 applications were returned, 62 permits were not issued, 83 are under consideration.
the city is growing, a new center is being built here.
We raised young people, raised the necessary money for tanks, airplanes, carried out cultural work with young people, "said E.P.
The volume of foreign investments in technical innovations increased 20 times - from 2 to 40 billion tenge, "the agency said.
During the visit, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the work of industrial enterprises and social facilities, met with labor collectives and held a number of meetings on the social development of the region.
A list of the first projects to launch work under the New Synergy economic programme has now been developed.
The main factor in the success of mcho is the direct participation of countries in its implementation, the implementation of various projects at the national, regional and international levels.
The best sports federations of the year recognized the boxing federation of Kazakhstan, the federation of rowing sports "boat," the weightlifting federation, the federation of water sports, the national federation of skaters.
the ambassadors of Russia, Belarus and Kyrgyzstan noted that the goal is the development of the economies and social spheres of the eurozone member countries, improving the well-being of their peoples.
Phased introduction from January 1, 2017 of a general declaration of income and expenses for civil servants, in the future for all citizens.
China intends to comprehensively expand mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of security, economic, humanitarian spheres, as well as strengthen cooperation and coordination in regional and international affairs for the benefit of our peoples, "Xi said.
the committee developed an investment proposal, carried out all the necessary calculations and gave the necessary technical solutions.
our close partner and one of the strongest clients. ktz is our closest partner and one of the best customers .
the third direction is industrialization and economic growth. the third direction is the industrialization and economic growth .
Changes in legislation concerning the National Guard, the armed forces and the State Security Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan do not affect the social grouping of the National Guard of Kazakhstan.
According to him, today in Kazakhstan every second entrepreneur is a woman.
The Department of Energy is also considering a precautionary project.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the enterprise and talked with the labor team.
bilateral relations of our countries are developing on the path of sustainable political dialogue, systemic expansion of trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties.
among them we can distinguish the program "Made in Kazakhstan," - said E. Saidmuradov.
within three days, officers passed tests on knowledge of state legal, fire, physical, tactical training, as well as military topography, weapons and military equipment.
During the new nationwide teleconference of industrialization of Kazakhstan, the head of state launched the operation of a complex for the production of aromatic hydrocarbons on the basis of Atyrau Mhz.
at the end of the enamel, Rahmon wished the head of state good health, longevity, new successes and successes in the development of Kazakhstan.
In connection with the failure to submit all the necessary documents for registration in accordance with paragraph 7 (3) of article 59 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted resolutions refusing to register as a candidate for the presidency of the Republic of Kazakhstan Koyshiev, rope sbashula turageldiev, bright seiblaus and and hasen karimzhanovich.
Note that a new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" is currently being implemented.
As noted in the report of the committee, the number of arrivals and returns from the CIS countries amounted to 88.4% and 90.2%, respectively.
Also, the Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the last election.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War, veterans of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, veterans of local military administration bodies, students of higher and secondary special educational institutions, schoolchildren, parents and relatives of conscripts.
President Barack Obama congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the beginning of the new presidential time, congratulated Kazakhstanis on the people of the Americans and wished the country peace and harmony, the statement said.
this event is very important for the world community, so the task of young people is to show active citizenship, "said Kalieva.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the progressive pace of development of cooperation between the two countries.
for example, in Moscow, a single polling station was opened for cadets and students of military universities in Tver, Ryazan, Smolensk, Yaroslavl, Krasnodar, Voronezh, Kostroma.
thus, large projects that received loans at 12-13% will pay minus 10%, the premium will be significantly less, a maximum of 2-3%.
During the meeting, the main principles of the anti-corruption strategy of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025 were explained.
Sewage drainage continues in the North Kazakhstan region. draining work is continuing in north kazakhstan region .
the project cost is more than 4.5 billion tenge, of which white funds of KazagroFinance - 3 billion 626 million tenge.
We invite interested students, who are generally coordinators of such projects throughout the city, to undergo the practice of "astana innovations," the akim said.
According to the museum staff, all donated exhibits will be transferred to the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan in compliance with all laws.
organization of production of large-sized and especially heavy products, project cost - 2500 million tenge, Atyrau Neftemash LLP, 250 new jobs were created.
113 thousand 191 (58.4%), unemployed, 79 thousand 308 (40.9%) - self-employed, 1,240 people (0.6%) - partially hired workers when applying to employment centers of program participants.
The people of Kazakhstan will never forget about their contribution to strengthening strong friendly relations between our countries, the telegram says.
After that, the Governor of the region visited the new wholesale and retail point "North."
During the meeting with the Head of the Foreign Ministry, Acting Adyrbekov presented the message of the President of the Republic of Lithuania n.a. The President of Kazakhstan will be invited to support Kazakhstan's appeal to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
In the current situation, it is necessary to constantly differentiate the international situation against the background of the development of relations between Russia and Western countries and trends in the global economy, "the head of state said.
they praised the work of the commanders and the actions of the units as part of the exercises, "the report said.
I think that the interests of the mission's experts, members of the Central Election Commission and all participants in the electoral process completely coincide, "he said.
this is a technical document that defines the main directions and mechanisms, "said Myrzagaliyev.
The purpose of the seminar is to update the database of the verity program, produced annually, "the report said.
During a conversation with the President of Vietnam, Kabibullah Dzhakupov, as a special representative of the President of Kazakhstan, presented a message from the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev on supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
Therefore, I think that "a grant is a broad concept of money allocated from the budget of a state institution."
As part of the event, the nomination "Best Artist of the Year of Kazakhstan" was announced as part of the Muz-tv 2015 award.
In general, a nationwide campaign to support veterans inspired them, "he said.
of these, the owners of the golden college sign are 1285, the owners of the silver college are 1513, the mother heroine is 285, the mother glory is 1, 2, 3 degrees is 342, four or more children are 2546.
expansion and deepening of cooperation with the countries of Central Asia are one of the most important priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy. deepening of cooperation with c asia states is one of the most important priorities of foreign policy of kazakhstan .
This year, changes and additions will be made to legislative acts on environmental issues and the green economy, "the minister said.
The President of the Otto Beneke Foundation noted that under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev Kazakhstan has achieved great successes, including issues recognized by the world community of foreign policy, industrial and innovative development, inter-ethnic harmony, fruitful economic reforms and improving the well-being of the population.
Thus, a new laboratory complex was put into operation at the Kaspiymunaigaz State Enterprise, "the report said.
Recall that in December the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway route was launched.
detachments of aksu, Ekibastuz city, Aktogai, reinforced concrete, Irtysh, Swan, Oilman, Uspensky, steppe districts will work for two months, detachments of Bayanaul, Kachir, Pavlodar districts will work for a month, and detachments of Pavlodar city will be provided with full volume of work during the summer season, the Governor's Office reported.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of partnership was signed between the white and Latvian associations of travel agents and operators "expo-2017" (alta).
In this context, among the events held last year, one can note the republican "round tables" Ideas that change the world, "" Cinema Week "first-first," the presentation of a selected multi-volume of performances. Nazarbayev in Kazakh, books "Our President" and other socially significant projects covering more than 5 thousand teachers.
During the conversation, the parties discussed measures to further strengthen bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
if in all economic categories the average growth is from 2 to 8%, then in agricultural formations - from 7 to 16%.
as part of the delegation, representatives of the Department of Foreign Trade and Commerce of the Shaanxi City Government, foreign economic and trade enterprises of Xi'an City.
he will continue to transfer sacred relics to military personnel of the regional command "west."
In the history of the city, such a volume of house building has not been carried out, and we are trying to keep it in this direction, "said the head of the city.
the jury consists of international arbitrators and classifiers from Kazakhstan, Russia, Spain, Kazakhstan, Hong Kong, Austria, the Netherlands and Israel.
this route not only connects Kazakhstan, China and Europe, but also provides an opportunity for the countries of central Asia, "the head of state emphasized.
According to him, the commissioning of the railway line between Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran allowed Kazakhstan to export to neighboring countries, the Persian Gulf countries.
The head of state noted the need to adopt a new program in the field of tourism.
the tasks set by the head of state should be the focus of attention. the implementation of the orders given by the head of state must be on the special control .
Our neighborhood needs cattle slaughter. slaughterhouse is very necessary for our village .
The Ambassador asked to consider the possibility of holding the event "Days of Culture of Malaysia" in Astana within the framework of EXPO-2017.
According to K. Bishimbayev, the first year of the program will be a pilot and at that time priority for the agro-industrial complex, mechanical engineering and the production of building materials.
Based on the principles of the law, this issue was to be determined by the government and amend the law, "said the head of the NPP.
today is the way of life. "
In order to strengthen inter-ethnic agreements of citizens, develop culture, preserve the language and traditions of peoples, a social project "under one shanyrak" has been developed.
development issues have taken an important form.
I constantly follow and sincerely rejoice in how this region thrives. i always watch and sincerely rejoice how this region is thriving .
we produce this tool not only for Kazakhstan, but also for hospitals and clinics in neighboring countries. on the basis of our technical park we will begin production of such equipment not only for kazakhstan , not only for our specific clinics , but also for our neighbors .
the interest rate on loans is subsidized, a special program "Business Roadmap 2020" is in force, unreasonable checks have been stopped.
the land port serves as the largest transport, logistics and distribution center at the international level, allowing Kazakhstan, China and the countries of the Eurasian region to enter world markets.
at the meeting, classes were held on special and tactical training, intelligence training, moral and psychological support, engineering training, rhbo, military topography and other subjects.
and presented new features of the Unified Business Support and Development Program.
During the meeting with the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Cologne, the German side got acquainted with the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan, the new economic policy "Nұr the way to the future" and the opportunities for cooperation in the framework of the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
The development of industrial infrastructure requires the growth of transport, communications, housing and communal, energy zones, "said M. Pshembayev.
candidates undergo a medical examination, receive referral from local military administration bodies (former military commissariats) and master military specialty within 1.5 months.
taking into account that the main indicator of the program is the amount of recovery debt in the amount of 300.0 billion tenge, this is fully fulfilled.
Therefore, as we will continue to improve, this is an annual issue, we will consider it, "said T. Balykbaev.
in these conditions, the services sector, small and medium-sized businesses should play the role of an employer, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
from this year he will become the organizer of the competition-exhibition "The best product of Kazakhstan."
According to him, the highest indicator in the Kostanay region is 32%, North Kazakhstan - 29%, Aktobe - 22%.
I look forward to continuing our cooperation and strengthening relations in all areas for the further development of the two countries, "the telegram says.
the heads of the association of organizations of disabled people of Kazakhstan, the public association "Honor" of disabled people with higher education and the public foundation "I love life" note that today in the republic all conditions are created for the full living of people with disabilities.
A. Rau familiarized the meeting participants with the implementation of the 2nd stage of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan (SPFIID).
creation of an international arbitration center aifc in Astana on Dubai practice.
the parties agreed to accelerate the coordination of these projects, which will become the basis for creating a successful and useful business between Kazakh and Thai partners.
Kazakh diplomats in their reports spoke about the important foreign policy initiatives of the Kazakh leadership and the activation of the country in the international arena, Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening regional and international stability and security, including in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
training and operational communication, open discussion allow us to develop and improve in work, "said the adviser.
Today's business forum is aimed at familiarizing with the investment opportunities of Kazakhstani and Turkish entrepreneurs. today 's business forum is dedicated to kazakhstan 's investment attractiveness .
It is important to organize milk reception points that meet world standards. " Akhmetov.
Currently, regular flights between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Korea are carried out as follows: Air Astana Airlines operates flights in the direction of Almaty - Seoul - Almaty from 3 weekly frequency flights; " Asiana Airlines operates flights along the Seoul-Almaty-Seoul route with a frequency of 2 flights per week, "the report said.
I am a candidate of biological sciences, associate professor, professor emeritus of agrotechnical university. seifullina, rear veteran, labor veteran, member of the Union of Journalists of Kazakhstan. i am a candidate of biological sciences , professor , honored worker of agro-technical university , home front workers , labor veteran , member of the union of journalists of kazakhstan .
this will be due to a powerful economy, new industrial projects, with every new highway, "he said.
Recall that on February 19-20 of this year, the official visit of Prime Minister Siyyarto to the capital took place, within the framework of which a work plan was signed between the foreign policy institutions of the two countries for 2015-2016.
the action is aimed at not violating the law, "the report said.
the global crisis has internal factors, "the president said.
The event was attended by high-level representatives of the diplomatic community, countries of Asia and the Pacific, international and regional organizations.
now the organizers are looking for ideas in specific sciences, social research, architecture, art, economics and other areas.
I saw the previous elections, but there, as in Kazakhstan, I did not notice the joyful, happy mood of the people, which is very important for your country, "the international observer said during the briefing.
more than 1 million 200 thousand enterprises and individual entrepreneurs operate in our country. more than one million enterprises work in kazakhstan .
the great victory causes a sense of pride, the exploits of the soldiers of the Soviet army at that time did not go anywhere, "said the veteran.
The President of Kazakhstan by his decree awards especially distinguished citizens high state awards. the president of kazakhstan by his decree awards the most distinguished citizens with high state prizes .
This year, the scheduled certification of the officer corps of the armed forces will be held in two stages from January 12 to November 1, 2015.
It is also planned to equip the disabled with technical installations, improve medical and social expertise, develop inotaxias, "said Svetlana Zhakupova, Vice Minister of Health and Social Development.
the contracting company began the installation of fencing, preparatory work, "the statement said.
our new program solves issues of development of non-primary exports, increase of manufacturing industry volumes, increase of non-primary export situation, "bishimbayev said.
The Prime Minister of Hungary stressed the importance of cooperation in the field of education.
Top managers of fund and subsidiaries, the trade-union organizations, the railroad workers, oil industry workers, power engineering specialists, engineers, senior from labor dynasties of the country, etc. participated in an action.
In accordance with the requirements of the state program "Nұrly zhol," it is planned to invest in the development of infrastructure at the expense of foreign organizations.
Now I live in Alma-Ata. at the moment i live in almaty .
Vladimir Smirnov took part in the implementation of this project.
China remains an important market, "added the vice president of the national company.
this is the first visit of the head of this international organization to Kazakhstan.
According to the Senate, the document is aimed at strengthening and expanding economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Qatar by creating favorable conditions for investment.
our choice is the presence of a powerful Kazakh leader, "the letter says.
After the victory, the team brought Almaty a real Wef Cup, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the implementation of the program for the development of education in the region.
please, serve for a long time in office. please , serve in office for a long time .
target of arrival - hp bilateral cooperation with the Gumilev Innovation Park, development of startup projects, support of projects of Kazakh scientists.
to that end, the Government of Kazakhstan had adopted clear and effective decisions.
at competitions among Kazakhstani rescuers, operational rescue teams of the northern regional airmobile rescue squad (Kostanay city), South Kazakhstan and West Kazakhstan regions at the levels of "trigger crossing," "access to the mountains" and "rescue operations" are ahead.
Altynkol plays an important role on the Eurasian continent. altynkol will be an important point on the eurasian continent .
the first of the projects is the kazakhstan mineral company LLP, which opened from the Batyrsu polymetallic deposit in a foreign area.
after that, the chapman visited the Kazakh peacekeeping brigades, as well as the ile training center, where he met with military personnel studying as part of the international military education program (has).
The interlocutors also discussed issues related to the creation of a regional UN hub in Kazakhstan.
p.uza praised Kazakhstan's role in the stability factor in Central Asia.
It should be noted that the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan opened a personal exhibition "Golden History Table" of the laureate of the XV Republican Festival of Creative Youth, winner of the Azhar National Award of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan, member of the Union of Artists of Kazakhstan Aizhan Abdubait.
60.4 billion tenge is provided for social support, health care and education, improvement of living conditions. around 60.4 billion tenge is provided for social support , the development of health care and education , improvement of living conditions .
According to the results of the study, consumers of the three countries will save 5.5 billion tenge, and Kazakhstanis - 2.2 million tenge from tariff reduction, "he concluded.
The program is aimed at creating new jobs, quick activities in order to strengthen the foundation of economic activity, "the head of state said.
our museum is often visited by schoolchildren. our museum is often visited by the pupils of the capital .
a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of the work of these central and local government bodies in this important ideological sphere.
it will make Kazakhstan a transit state, thus covering all road and railway lines throughout the country, "the president said.
an expert group is working.
According to him, preliminary results were summed up "These are important social projects that were held in 1652 countries as part of the action, a total of 2514 events were held, in which more than half a million people took part.
it includes scientific, technical, socio-economic and political directions.
we will continue to finance long-term investment projects, increase food production and create new jobs, "he said.
Kazakhstan and Venezuela support integration steps. kazakhstan and venezuela are the supporters of integration approaches .
In 2014, 25,079 people were convicted, of which 458 were acquitted.
According to the city akimat, 36.8 million tenge was spent on these events from the local budget.
we have all the conditions for storing documents. we have all the conditions for document storage .
1997 letters and certificates were also issued for the import (export) of medicines, medical products and medical equipment registered and unregistered in Kazakhstan, 735 types of medicines, medical products and medical equipment were registered, 2 permits for clinical and (or) pharmacological tests were issued.
4,515 rescuers, firefighters and military personnel of the National Guard, 1,221 units of special and rescue equipment, 74 watercraft were involved, 106 water installations were commissioned.
- pasta factory with a capacity of 1000 tons of products per year, 80 jobs were created (LLP "New Alzhan mill");
thus, a system of innovation support tools has been established, including innovative grants, services, incubations of the technological business, project and subsidiary financing, and commercialization office services.
on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
Today, the experience of Kazakhstan is being studied in many countries, "said the deputy chairman of the KHA.
In general, in 2015, the volume of allocated funds in the field of education of the region increased by 15% compared to 2014 and amounted to 55 billion tenge.
they will be provided with pension and social benefits, but those who violate the rules and ethics will lose all posts, pensions, "the head of state said.
when implementing this social project, it is necessary to pay attention to the fact that assistance to veterans is provided not once, but comprehensively and systemically. during the realization of this social project the attention should be paid to the fact that the veterans will be provided with not one-off assistance , but comprehensive and systematic .
In our opinion, investments in infrastructure, which are calculated under the "Nұrly zhol" program, will have a great economic and macroeconomic effect, "said Mukanov.
choreography, vocal performance, gestures, instrumental performance, applied creativity, as well as fine art, "the report said.
Our goal is to sign an agreement that will create favorable conditions for the long-term future development of cooperation projects, attracting investments in the production and transport industries, infrastructure and services. our goal is to sign an agreement , which will create favorable conditions for long-term development cooperation projects , to attract investment in the manufacturing and transport sectors , infrastructure and services .
targeted work is underway to fulfill the instructions of the head of state to search for projects for the development of the infrastructure of the Saryarka special economic zone and its placement on its territory, "he said.
they are aimed at creating the basis of the patriotic act "Eternal Country," on which our assembly is working, "said the leader of the nation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that these measures will contribute to the growth of the region's economy and the creation of new jobs, "the report said.
in addition, R. Zhoshybayev conveyed to his Japanese counterpart the message of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Prime Minister of Japan on supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for a non-permanent representation of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
In this regard, the government was instructed to continue the work on the financial recovery of economic entities, which began in 2013-2014.
Also at the meeting, the tamara duissenova noted that the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan will continue active cooperation with the paired children's fund.
unfortunately, we did not cooperate with Hungarian companies.
I want to say that I am satisfied with the established relations between our countries and peoples. i want to confirm the satisfaction of established relations between our countries and peoples .
a total of 40 thousand respondents, which included all regions of Kazakhstan and the capital, the city of Almaty. the total amount is 40,000 respondents including all regions of kazakhstan , astana and almaty .
I solemnly swear to serve the people of Kazakhstan in good faith, strictly observe the Republic of Kazakhstan and its laws, guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, faithfully fulfill the high duties of the Republic of Kazakhstan assigned to me, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The volume of wholesale trade in January-December 2014 amounted to 16,358.4 billion tenge and increased by 7.7% compared to January-December 2013.
I am a native of Pavlodar.
previously, only polyethylene pipes were in these norms, "the nadloc said in a statement.
we consider Hungary a true friend. we consider hungary as a true friend .
military rank of Major General of Aviation:
I serve the Republic of Kazakhstan, so I consider participation in the presidential election my duty. i serve the republic of kazakhstan , and i feel compelled to participate in presidential elections .
in Budapest, we opened a capital street.
firstly, the strategy "Kazakhstan - 2050," becoming one of the 30 competitive countries of the world, your message to Kazakhstanis and the program "nұrly zhol," which we are ready to implement.
Kazakh diplomat in connection with bilateral and multilateral integration issues handed the message of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan
infrastructure project for construction of railway tracks of Astana railway service
Total investments amounted to 10.8 billion tenge.
it is necessary to start the work of an intergovernmental commission that will help to remove barriers between our countries. it 's necessary to start the work of the intergovernmental commission , which should help to eliminate the barriers between the two countries .
this is one of the major indicators.
in addition, monitoring and information on places of illegal trade in fish products in the capital, Almaty, Almetyevsk, Aktobe, Uralsk will be accumulated.
the state wants the timely implementation of social obligations, "said Bizhanov.
veterans of the region were invited.
Over the years of independence, we have seen great changes in the development of our country.
a meeting with schoolchildren took place today, and I told them the memory of the war.
we must implement the "Nұrly zhol" program.
During the conversation, special attention was paid to issues of social development of Kazakhstan, including health, education, gender policy, exchange of statistical data.
stands and cabins are installed in all sections. stands and booths have been installed in all polling stations .
for example, the medal "For Courage" is issued for courage and courage shown in emergency situations (fire, natural disaster, etc.) in the fight against crime in the course of saving human life.
One of the bright victories of the capital's athletes last year is the victory of the Astana football club in the championship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Already in the first quarter of this year, one project was launched.
The Dardanel operation, which lasted almost a year, was an important stage of the First World War.
I would call this convention an important event. i would call this congress as landmark , there are 2 solid bases .
a modern project is the work of the builders of the Novosibirsk plant.
In addition, a conference was organized on the topic "Prospects for the implementation of joint projects" with the participation of representatives of regional chambers of entrepreneurs, socio-entrepreneurial corporations, the South Kazakhstan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the investment development agency.
In 16 regions of the region there is an increase in the volume of construction work. of the 16 regions in 12 regions marked increase in the volume of construction works .
This year, veterans of the Second World War on the anniversary date from the republican budget were given lump-sum benefits in the amount of 25 thousand to 100 thousand tenge, from the local budget - from 30 thousand to 150 thousand tenge.
to participate in the landing biathlon, the best airborne assault platoons from military units 61993, 36323 and 18404 were selected.
they won the grand prix.
all roads and railways will gain momentum only with the development of logistics, "the head of state said.
Tokayev noted the importance of the spiritual forum, which was held at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
one of the new mechanisms of state support is investment subsidies.
According to him, according to the results of 2014, 13 social facilities were commissioned.
According to him, the elections are organized at a high level.
In 2014, 1254 cars were collected, polypropylene packages worth 3 billion 316.5 million tenge were produced, ceramic brick production increased by 8.7%, kmz milk production amounted to 45.6 thousand tons, "the akim said.
If we talk about the image for 2015-2019, then this program requires a comprehensive approach, which covers all areas of the business climate - entrepreneurial activity, foreign investment, human resource, personnel potential. as of spiid for 2015-2019 years , a program involves all aspects of the business climate , business regulation of smes , foreign investment , technology , human resources , etc .
Speaking at the general session, he noted that "bilateral relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Ukraine are distinguished by traditional friendliness and mutual respect, kindness.
This year it is planned to launch 5 projects: a furniture factory, a meat processing complex, the production of ecological class k5 fuel, an oil refinery, a gas factory, he said.
The project was implemented last year at the initiative of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
in full-time education, 87.2% of students study, in evening and correspondence forms 0.2% and 12.6%, respectively.
The publication presents an overview of the development of the energy sector and policies in this direction in such states as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan.
The head of state noted that in the anti-crisis program "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" it is necessary to support the development of ank and shoba in the countryside.
I also want to report that on April 26, presidential elections were approved in Kazakhstan. i would like to take this moment to highlight kazakhstan 's upcoming presidential election , which is scheduled for the 26th of april .
One section of the forum is devoted to Kazakhstan: the attractiveness of Kazakhstan for foreign investors: the current situation, "the report said.
On the same day, the head of state will attend an informal meeting with the leaders of the CIS countries, and will also take part in a meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council.
and we will discuss this proposal with the "Kazakhstan investment fund."
According to Bloomberg, as a result of trading on the London Stock Exchange, the value of February brent futures decreased by 4.71% and amounted to 53.14 dollars per barrel, the report said.
In 2014, there were 2,784 publications, which is 3 times more than in 2011. 2784 works were published in 2014 , which was 3 times more than in 2011 .
Given the multinational, this is very important, "he said.
all this is necessary in order for cultural and spiritual life to develop at the same pace as the economy, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In the early years, we said: "When we are together, our path will be successful."
in this regard, he instructed the government to supplement the program with new crisis measures.
President of Kazakhstan A.Papp expressed confidence that every Kazakhstani under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev will adequately appreciate the country's achievements during the years of independence.
we discussed many issues, I participated in the women's forum, where issues of the development of women's entrepreneurship were also discussed, "he said.
Despite the crisis and political problems in the world, we ended 2014 with good results. despite the world crisis and political challenges we have closed the year successfully .
To date, public services are carried out not only through electronic government, "but also through mobile communications and CES.
According to zhovat gabdulkafeev, he was invited to Zerendinsky district of Akmola region.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev praised the work done by researchers.
on the European side, the Deputy Secretary-General of the European External Relations Service Helga Schmid and the Director of the Department for Russian, Eastern Partnership, Central Asian, Regional Cooperation and Ecu of the European External Relations Service Gunnar Wiegand.
secondly, through the transenca corridor to the Caspian, Black Sea, South Caucasus, Turkish, Iranian countries.
they can be responsible and fast, working individually, "the president said.
it is planned to bring their number to 500-600 pieces.
we have also concluded negotiations with the European Union on an expanded partnership and cooperation agreement.
In November last year, a general project for gasification of the country was developed. general scheme of gasification of the country was approved in november last year .
Today we are talking about the potential of the two countries, so far the results of work in this direction are not very significant, but I think that in the future we will resolve this situation and prepare a strong economic program, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshov.
According to him, the data of this program were recognized by world-famous companies.
Significant volume of investments in fixed assets is observed in drilling (11.6 billion tenge), Zelensky (10.0 billion tenge) districts and the city of Uralsk (3.7 billion tenge).
this program includes 17 infrastructure projects, of which 12 are implemented in the road sector, the remaining 5 - in the railway infrastructure and seaports, the airport of the capital.
The event was organized as part of the implementation of the country's socio-economic development strategy "Kazakhstan-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" and a program of long-term targeted patriotic education of youth of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
According to the Mayor's Office, during the meeting of the Mladavdans, he focused on the activities within the framework of the social project "under one shanyrak," implemented in 2013-2014, and proposed to continue it this year.
these are not words that sound in the election campaign, but a specific goal, "said the deputy.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The National Museum of Kazakhstan supports the project of "free artists of St. Petersburg" and will continue cooperation in the direction of creating and developing a single cultural space between the two states in the future.
despite all the difficulties of this period, the failure to fulfill many goals, friendship develops, which is an important area of ​ ​ the work of states in the post-Soviet space, "said D. Medvedev.
chief referee of the championship: judge of the highest national rank - sharip kashkenov (Pavlodar), secretary general - judge of the national rank - batyrkhan abilbekov (kostanay).
the invaluable work of our leader to maintain calm. "
This was made possible thanks to Nursultan Nazarbayev, who largely took advantage of his geographical position in order to bring his country to a high level, "said the President of Turkey.
Speaker of the state House of Representatives Tim Moore noted "political stability in Kazakhstan, which is of great importance for the development of the economy and business."
In addition, work in this direction will include people in rural districts, 250-300 new jobs will be created.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also focused on the attractive prospects of Almaty.
the result of the internal and foreign policy of our people.
we want to congratulate them on their anniversary and convey through them all our congratulations to the women working in the samruk-kazyna group of companies, "he added.
You know how difficult and important this issue is, "said the head of the region.
Opening the seminar, Ambassador of Kazakhstan Dulat Kuanyshev noted the great potential of trade, economic and investment relations between the two countries, namely agriculture, medicine, pharmaceuticals, water resources, high technologies, including nanotechnology, telecommunications, spoke about international projects and tenders.
liberated Belarus, Ukraine and Moldova.
someone who wants to master the program can learn from it, "he continued.
the main share of construction (78.4%) falls on private companies.
the second place and certificate for 300 thousand tenge was taken by elvira ergalin.
I hope that we will learn about the relationship between Kazakhstan and Israel, the letter says.
Also, 12.7 billion tenge will be used to fulfill state orders of preschool institutions under the Balapan program, "said E. Dossayev.
contracts are currently being concluded with all suppliers and executors of work, "the statement said.
I represent the Croatian delegation here, which shows great interest in entrepreneurs and Kazakhstani business, "said Z. Milanovich.
in our museum of military glory there are many overcoats of the Great Patriotic War, cash desks, shells, military awards and many other exhibits and unique documents. our museum of military glory stores overcoats , helmets , ammunition , military awards of the great patriotic war and many other exhibits , unique documents .
the second is our wide steppes, grain, cattle.
According to the Ministry of Investment and Development, new areas are being opened as part of the improvement of the country's transport and logistics system in accordance with the Nұrly zhol program (the beam principle of transport logistics).
The purpose of the congress is to discuss with leading scientists and engineers in the world the main achievements of energy conservation and efficient use of energy, ways to develop innovative technologies and technology in the energy sector, sustainable development and economic growth in countries around the world, the report said.
for them, we have developed different rules, both to pass the championships and to go down. we have developed some rules for the unt , admission to the universities especially for them .
many families were brought to Kazakhstan.
Currently, eren energi is developing a preliminary feasibility study for the project.
it became the originality of the state and the international brand of Kazakhstan. it has become a hallmark of the country , the international brand of kazakhstan .
first of all, this is stability.
we have established the independence of our country with desire, unity.
I know that this is a special event not only for the people of Kazakhstan, but also for the Turkic world as a whole. in my opinion it is a significant event not only for the people of kazakhstan , but also for the entire turkic world .
KZT 2,210,9 million has been allocated for these projects.
security issues in the global and regional situation.
In order to prepare for EXPO-2017, a feasibility study (from) is being developed for the implementation of the project for the construction of the passenger terminal of the airport of the capital, for which funding in the amount of 60.7 billion tenge is provided, "said K.Alpysbayev. at the enlarged meeting of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development.
this year is the year of harmony, peace and the triumph of the ideas of the Nazarbayev.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the high indicators of socio-economic development of the region.
In 2015, it is planned to allocate 2.6 billion tenge for these works, "the report said.
Because the voice of each person is important, "said the participant in the competition.
In addition, last year the construction of a railway from the center of Kazakhstan to the Caspian Sea was completed.
The exercises were held on February 2, 2015 under the chairmanship of the commander of the military unit, Colonel Rainbow Ushtaev.
the Kostanay delegation visited the group of companies "healthy farm" in the Kunashak district, OJSC Chelyabinsk Pipe Rolling Plant, the meat products factory Ariant.
we want to create a good business and have a good return on your investments. we want you to become part of our success story , we want to create good business together and get good return on your investment .
According to him, the volume of construction work amounted to 1.4 billion tenge.
the parties considered issues of development of cooperation in industry and agriculture.
improving the infrastructure of the region.
The adopted resolutions supported such initiatives of Kazakhstan as the restoration of the former Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, the island sea region, the agreement on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in central Asia, the universal declaration on a nuclear-free world, support for the Anshka and proposals for expo 2017, as well as the creation of an Islamic food security organization headquartered in the capital.
large Belarusian, Russian and our Kazakhstani companies operate on the market.
In 2014, the construction of 4 settlements was completed, work is underway in the remaining 5 settlements.
the nation of one future is one of the main tasks set by the head of state.
I wish all Kazakhstanis peace and harmony. i wish all kazakhstanis peace and harmony , happiness and prosperity .
the document provides for the introduction of two regulatory instruments ("introduction of expanded production obligations (regulation)," "introduction of an automated system of commercial accounting in forms of using renewable energy sources (kej)"
According to representatives of the White House, Governor's offices of Kazakhstan visited 9 regions of the country, met with 1.5 thousand entrepreneurs and commented on the program.
The opening ceremony of the second road was attended by the First Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Kassymbek, the President of "ktj" uk "askar mom, akim of Zhambyl region karim kokrekbayev.
I know that the back in the field of cooperation will also contribute to the promotion of Kazakhstan's goods to the European market, to southeast Asia, "he said.
we are responsible for the development of this region.
Tenaris global services also plans to open a premium pipeline cutting plant.
The Council for the Development of Youth Entrepreneurship of Kazakhstan will involve representatives of business, state body, public, non-governmental organizations, political parties, mass media, etc.
new facilities, including a number of investment projects, must be completed and stopped.
in addition, the Director General was provided with information about the capital's efforts to promote Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
Ilham Aliyev congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his victory in the presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan on April 26.
During the trip, I visited Kazzinc, which produces a large amount of export products: zinc, lead, copper, gold and silver.
The ambassador also emphasized the importance of strengthening cooperation between the parliamentarians of the two countries, providing an appropriate legal framework, "the statement said.
It should be noted that the newspaper "dünya" is the most popular Turkish economic newspaper.
elections are organized at a very high level and meet international standards. the elections are organized on a very high level and it follows all the international standards .
support for business initiatives, industry support for business, reduction of currency risks and extension of non-financial measures on the principle of "one window."
according to this classification, with 20 thousand 16 of this category of entrepreneurs, 7 thousand pay one and a half times less and 8 thousand - a third, "Mr. Myrzakhmetov said.
It is also planned to build a green food development workshop by the Spanish eleusis technology company.
The most important thing is that Kazakhstan has all its ties with both its development and the development of integration processes, the Russian president said.
In 2014, 31.1 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for the payment of childcare benefits up to one year.
the economy is developing, the state of the population is improving.
Latvian deputies got acquainted with the main theses of the message of the head of state "Nұrly zhol," the main directions of foreign and domestic policy of Kazakhstan.
The head of UNESCO introduced and. Bokov with the main provisions of the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol is the way to the future," the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, measures to develop education, science and culture in Kazakhstan, gender equality.
our ambassador in a neighboring country was given an appropriate order, "he added.
According to him, the message of the head of state is a program document for all Kazakhstanis.
planes were arrested at all airports.
During the forum, priority areas of the country's new economic policy "nұrly zhol" will be discussed.
The draft state program consists of two main areas: infrastructure development and anti-crisis measures, "said the Minister of National Economy of Dossayev.
there will also be a citywide forum of national games, "said L. Susainova.
The Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan albert rau took part in the re-session after the sanctions.
Within the framework of the Employment Roadmap 2020, 10 cultural facilities were overhauled in the amount of 274.8 million tenge.
According to the Governor's Office of the capital, the results of the first five-year plan of the state program "forced industrial-innovative development" of 2010-2014 became comfortable for the city of Astana as a whole.
The crews of the domestic missile and artillery ships Kazakhstan, Ural, Saryarka, as well as the Marine Corps brigade will take part in the sea biathlon.
of them, Sidorkin, N. Guy, uh. Guryev, s. Aitbaev, a. saydykhanov, togysbayev e. tolepbaev. Nurzhumaev, Mamakov and others.
touching upon the economic and investment opportunities of the country, the diplomat familiarized the participants with the current situation and prospects for the development of the Kazakh economy, national innovative potential, preferences for foreign business created in Kazakhstan and investments in the implementation of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
construction of wind farms in Vedernik village, "the Governor said.
feasibility study. the feasibility study has been already prepared .
help:
if there are those named, nothing is difficult for us, "he said.
he was a smart, life-loving person who went through the whole war, "says T. Seyitov.
in Riga, he met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Latvian Republic Edgars Rinkevics, the Secretary of the Sejm, a member of the Presidium Andrei Klementyev, the Secretary of the Sejm Committee on International Affairs Sergey Potapkin, the head of the deputy group for cooperation with the Parliament of Kazakhstan, and the leader of the party "Sincerely for Latvia."
Kazakhstan has become a tradition to appoint platforms for various discussions. kazakhstan traditionally provides a platform for discussions , for the various debates .
Unfortunately, the Ukrainian people called for conflict, a war that killed their compatriots. unfortunately , the ukrainian people was led to confrontation , fratricidal war .
During the meeting, topical issues of child protection, prospects for further cooperation in the field of education, health and social development were discussed.
Currently, we are modernizing healthcare, and one of its areas is the introduction of new technologies, the minister said.
However, we intervene in the work of other industries.
In turn, the president of the nexos association thanked the government of Kazakhstan, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassy for their comprehensive assistance in covering the film enrique gaspar.
I think this is a significant achievement and suggests that work is being done with young people, "the deputy said.
they provide for the construction of aluminum radiators, window and door accessories, waterproofing and closed materials, steel pipes, fibrobeton and fombetone-hydroponic green feed, as well as commercial and military vessels, the development of maritime transportation.
the concept of improving the state planning system, based on the results of the meeting, the concept of Kazakhstan becoming one of the most developed countries in the world, the concept of forming and spending funds of the national fund, the concept of official development support, the concept of a new budget policy, the state program for the development and integration of the transport infrastructure system until 2020, Kazakhstan 2020 and the concept of innovative development.
The Head of the Kazakh Diplomatic Mission presented to the conference participants the draft EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital with detailed information on the preparations for Expo-2017, as well as on the conditions and proposed opportunities for participation.
expenditures of the republican budget will be directed primarily to the full implementation of social obligations and the prevention of unemployment, support for business activity, "the minister continued.
According to the results of today's negotiations, the number of students increased to 200 people, "he said.
The Secretary of State noted the important role of unisef in improving the situation of children in the world and Kazakhstan, as well as the fact that state bodies in the country are actively working on the implementation of the UN development assistance framework (yundaf).
the majilismen's program also discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation with members of the Friends of Kazakhstan in the Netherlands political club.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Developing standards for special social services and a comprehensive social rehabilitation strategy for such citizens.
its modernization was carried out as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
at the plenary meeting - the current chairman of the ecu, the deputy prime minister of Serbia - the Minister of Foreign Affairs. dacic, head of the UN regional center for preventive diplomacy for central Asia.
Also, according to him, "nұrly zhol" is a national development program.
Also, specialists of the Institute for the Development of Southwestern Agriculture and Animal Husbandry carry out scientific work with the aim of growing meat sheep with blue color Karakul sheep, which are in high demand in the world market, as well as growing sheep "white-skinned" and "white-skinned," called 1540 heads.
traffic on the Astana-Korgalzhyn-shubarkol highway was restored.
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chalyk Holding Company noted the importance of Nursultan Nazarbayev's victory in the presidential election for calm and stability of the country.
today, young people participate in the youth delegates program.
The main thing is that these issues are resolved promptly, "said the rector.
current directions of the institution's work - scientific and analytical support for the president's schedule, as well as ideological and social events in order to support the strategic initiatives of the head of state.
the trade turnover of China and Russia will amount to 600 billion dollars and will reach 700 billion dollars.
we, the youth of Kazakhstan, scientists and innovators, use this platform to attract our colleagues from other countries. we hope that our young people of kazakhstan , scientists , innovators will use this platform to involve their colleagues from other countries .
President of Venezuela Nicolas Maduro on behalf of the government of the country and personally congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of present of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
peace in Kazakhstan is our first success, and its preservation is the main task. peace in kazakhstan is our most important achievement , and its preservation is the important task .
accordingly, it is necessary to exchange experience between our countries in this area.
During the meeting, the potential of developing the country's banking system was discussed.
The event was organized as part of the implementation of the country's socio-economic development strategy "Kazakhstan-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" and a program of long-term targeted patriotic education of youth of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
in particular, the orchestra in one of the popular shopping entertainment centers of the capital, where military musicians sang Frank Sinatra's hit "i love you, baby" and showed a special drum show.
the money supply amounted to 12403.1 billion tenge, the volume of cash in circulation amounted to 1035.7 billion tenge, deposits in the banking system amounted to 11367.4 billion tenge, "the report said.
the start of construction of the plant is scheduled for March, and completion - for the beginning of next year.
Department of coordination of employment and social programs of akimats of regions, cities of Astana and Almaty.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev closely connects Kazakhstani patriotism with issues of the state language. nursultan nazarbayev at a new stage of formation of our state connects the development of the kazakhstan patriotism with carrying out of the language policy .
In this regard, he noted that the leadership of Kazakhstan expects Sheikh al-Azhar to participate in the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital of our state in June this year.
According to the results of this lending, business entities will create 4,000 new jobs, manufactured products will grow by 150 billion tenge, the vice minister said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the development of the region's industry is one of the priority tasks of the state.
the green country programme is also working well.
in Karaganda, Aktobe, Aktobe regions, dialogue platforms on Kazakh content were held, "he said.
The airport of the capital operates with 16 airlines serving 15 domestic 19 international destinations. astana airport serves 16 airlines .
the formation of a modern professional state apparatus, ensuring the rule of law, a set of economic reforms will ensure the qualitative implementation of economic programs, increase the country's competitiveness and strengthen the country's unity. formation of a modern , professional state apparatus , ensuring of the rule of law , a set of economic reforms , the nation of united future , transparent and accountable government will allow us to ensure quality implementation of economic programs in order to increase the competitiveness of our country , and even more to unify the people of kazakhstan .
to deepen integration in this space within the framework of the signed Eurasian Economic Union between our countries. as part of the agreement signed between the two countries of the eurasian economic union must deepen integration in this space .
From March 16 to April 15 of this year, mobilization groups covered 447 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 817 times, including 6 unscheduled ones.
Almaty financial and economic, scientific and educational, cultural and sports center. almaty is the financial , economic , scientific , educational , cultural and sports center .
they rehearse with the Italian choir and orchestra.
The parties also exchanged views on the areas of cooperation in the field of health and social protection of the population within the framework of the Plan of Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the paired children's fund, developed for 2016-2020.
During the consultations, diplomats discussed a wide range of issues about the current state and prospects of bilateral relations in the field of political, trade, economic and cultural-humanitarian cooperation.
the male leader team plans to visit all regions of the country by March 8.
The Governor of the region thanked investors for successful cooperation, "the statement said.
During this meeting, the Liechtenstein side got acquainted with the main stages of development of Kazakhstan.
we came to show ourselves and our products, "said entrepreneur Zhannat Mukhamedshina.
notes, banknotes, brands submitted on public visually reflect stages of development of Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of Justice has drafted a new bill on forensic activities. ministry of justice has prepared a new draft law on forensic activities .
they inspire a sense of responsibility for our homeland, an understanding that each of us is fulfilling an important state task to protect it, "said Lieutenant Colonel Dauren Zadanov.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 300 young families received housing last year.
for the first time in the world, we abandoned nuclear tests, closed the most dangerous test sites. we are the first in the world voluntarily renounced nuclear weapons .
I am Kazakhstan. "
the share of the Yesilsky district is 17.5%, "the report said.
I have important tasks, you need to counteract foreign economic negatives, "said Edward Flight.
In addition, he expressed confidence that Algerians will support Kazakhstan's proposal to the UN Security Council on non-volatility in 2017-2018.
As a result, 2 gold, 4 silver, 15 bronze medals, as well as 4 diplomas.
In this regard, the head of state invited Ukrainian business to take part in promising projects within the framework of this program.
this year, 6.1% of self-employed citizens, 21% of the unemployed and 20% of low-income residents will be employed.
The new economic policy is a mechanism for influencing the internal factor of the economy, "he said.
we highly appreciate the state support of the head of state.
During the event, 3 veterans were awarded state awards.
Kazakhstani veterans need medicines, medical and social services, diagnostic research, sanitary-resort and inpatient treatment, volunteer care, hearing aids, prostheses.
As part of the individual financial guarantee program, 12 projects for a total of 18.0 million tenge were approved for opening new plants.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan confirms that the citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Erbol Bazaralinovich born in 1965, Isengalieva Aizhana Sarymovna born in 1966 and Imangaliyev Adil Berbolovich born in 1989, died on March 24 aboard a germanwings plane crashed in southern France, the report said.
The Brazilian side got acquainted with the current investment opportunities of Kazakhstan and was invited to the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
our goal is to pay off debt to veterans by resolving all the issues facing them, "said Nurmukhambet Abdibekov.
The financial fund serves as the financial basis for cooperation between companies of the two countries. "
Recall that the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issue of drastic reduction of the conditions of entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" was signed by the head of state on December 29, 2014.
thanks to the state for its support in business development, "the entrepreneur said.
half of Kazakhstan's trade turnover and attracted foreign investment is accounted for by European countries.
in particular, agriculture, finance, including Islamic banking and tourism, new technologies and energy.
According to the Minister of Industry and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, in the first quarter of this year the volume of industrial production grew by 0.6%, including in the mining industry - by 1.1%, manufacturing industry - by 0.5%.
And serving in the army is an honest task! "- said Akhmetzhanov.
President of Kazakhstan, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that we have only one homeland - independent Kazakhstan.
In 2014, 23 elevators were placed in residential buildings.
upon completion of training, cadets receive a diploma in the specialty "management," and are also awarded the qualification "junior specialist of the military administration (manager)," certificates of the driver of the car category "driver-driver of class 3 bmp" and "c," c. "
We also plan to hold a youth forum "I am a Kazakhstani."
and the largest part of subsidies was paid for the "creation and expansion of irrigation systems" - 2.5 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan has undergone many tests of creation, such as crisis, devaluation and political tensions.
today this program is being actively implemented in Almaty, Karaganda, South Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan and Kostanay regions.
In general, according to the minister, plans have been implemented for all levels of education.
S. Nungerbekov noted that the g-global project implemented in the Internet space contributes to the promotion of key projects of the country.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Assar Musinov began to oversee the delegation of Kazakhstan, the Afghan delegation - Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The match will be held between the current world champion Zoya Golubeva (Latvia) and the challenger Tamara Tansykkuzhina (Russia).
As I understand it, laying pipelines requires large-scale work, "he said.
we interviewed those who wanted to express their opinion, and then we witnessed their professional actions, "said rupert goodman.
before the concert, the head of state examined the photo exhibition "creative capital," and also talked with women participating in this project.
with economic integration, we strengthen the inviolable principles of political sovereignty, cultural independence and linguistic identity of our peoples. integrating economically , we strengthen the immutable principles of political sovereignty , cultural independence and linguistic uniqueness of our peoples .
two more documents are presented in this direction - "on arbitration" and "on forensic activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan" with related amendments.
we have begun to implement a new economic policy "path to a bright future," Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that industrial and innovative development is based on such enterprises.
492 families received new apartments as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
In accordance with the order of the head of state and taking into account the possibility of further deterioration of the country's economy, 250 billion tenge will be allocated to recapitalize the fund of problem loans in the government reserve, the minister said.
In total, 3.5 billion tenge was allocated for the maintenance and development of the sphere of culture and archives (3.3 billion tenge in 2013).
Kindergarten No. 136 is ready to accept 120 children aged 3 to 7 years.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the facility, examined the premises equipped with new medical facilities.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this project will further increase the authority of the capital.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the sustainable development of the country is ensured thanks to state policy.
When the war broke out, I was in my final year. i was in my last year at college when the war began .
I have repeatedly commissioned public transport. i entrusted to adjust work of public transport for a several times .
East Kazakhstan is the holy birthplace of abai, shakarim, mukhtar auezov. east kazakhstan is the sacred land of abay , shakarim , mukhtar auyezov .
In general, in order to create passports of accessibility for persons with disabilities, more than 54 thousand objects of social infrastructure were checked.
we want to cooperate with the Belgian side in the field of innovative technologies, agriculture, food industry. " Akhmetov.
veterans of the Great Patriotic War will be connected to the device according to the schedule.	this project hedges round veterans of the great patriotic war with care and attention .	1,28
According to the senator, the oil refining industry will give impetus to the development of the inflow industry of Kazakhstan, in particular, in conditions of instability of the world.	according to the senator , the oil industry is important for the ongoing development of kazakhstan , particularly in fragile world economy .	1,28
Volunteers from the republican movement "Kazakhstan-2050" were involved in the action "Made in Kazakhstan."
28.5 billion tenge was allocated under the program of leasing agricultural machinery.
According to him, the party supports the congress and will cooperate with Kazakhstan in promoting the goals and objectives of the forum in the world community.
As a result of the talks, a memorandum of political consultations was signed between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Venezuela.
The eco product thermal complex is also included in the industrialization map.
Issues of improvement of bilateral trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Baden-Württemberg were discussed on the agenda of the talks.
During the meeting, important issues in the field of education, health, employment and social integration were discussed.
Thus, the symbol of the action received from the good deeds of all regions of the country will be awarded to Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As you know, at the end of last year, an anti-corruption strategy for 2015-2025 was approved.
I instruct the National Bank to take measures to provide additional volumes on the liquidity of prices, to intensify work on de-dollarization of the economy, "the president said.
According to the Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan (CEC), more than 1000 observers from abroad, international organizations and foreign gardens observe the elections.
According to E. Dossayev, the volume of construction in the country amounted to 101.9%.
The event was attended by kha members, war and labor veterans, public and cultural figures of the region, youth organizations and military personnel.
they discussed the rule of law in peacekeeping operations.
The event will be attended by leading companies of grain markets in Kazakhstan, Iran, Turkey, the CIS countries, southeast Asia and the Baltic states.
An important difference in the business directory was the presence of a special section on cooperation between Kazakhstan and Canada, including the development of political dialogue at the federal and provincial levels, trade, economic and investment partnerships, the bilateral legal framework and cultural and humanitarian issues, etc.
As part of the twenty-five-year relay race, about 100 events were organized in the region, 24 thousand people were assisted in the amount of more than 46 million tenge.
the reforms proposed by the head of state are a timely response of Kazakhstan to challenges at the global level. the reforms proposed by the head of state are a strong and timely response to the global challenges of kazakhstan .
road accidents + railway accident, "rubble" and "fort."
our candidacy was nominated, I don't know how it will be in the plenary session, "said B. Meldeshov.
Benefits in the amount of 280.4 million tenge are assigned for children under 18 years old, the report said.
There is a 10 feedlot with a capacity of 49 thousand tons of beef per year, for 285 thousand cattle, 9 of them were created in 2014.
We believe that this year's growth will be significant, "said the vice minister.
after that, he visited the national defense department store named after the first president - the leader of Kazakhstan and the Baiterek monument, the Hazret Sultan mosque, the national museum of Kazakhstan and other attractions of the capital.
The Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia organized the event together with the National Bank of Kazakhstan and Kazpost JSC under the auspices of the Moscow Department of Culture and the Manege Museum and Exhibition Association.
According to him, as part of a public-private partnership with Samruk-kazyna JSC, the construction of three houses in the Eunice City housing estate has begun.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues on the international agenda were discussed, including cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU, integration within the framework of multilateral institutions and priorities for the development of Kazakh-Slovak bilateral relations.
among them are Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev, Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshov and other citizens.
relevance of development of mutually beneficial cooperation between regions of Kazakhstan and Polish departments.	he also stressed the importance of the development of mutually beneficial cooperation between kazakhstan and polish .	1,28
The business programme covers many issues related to the strategy for the development of passenger transport.	the program covers a wide range of issues related to the development strategy of passenger transport .	1,28
Since August last year, brent oil prices have halved to $51.54.	since august of this year , the price of a barrel of brent crude oil fell more than doubled - up to 51.54 dollars .	1,28
this year this forum was held under the motto "Investments in transitional activities."
the portal will become the "calling card" of the country, the "national guide," the national honor board for interested citizens and the virtual messaging platform.
on military cooperation, all efforts went to the preparation of a collective force.
As reported in East Kazakhstan region, heat supply costs - 19.5%, water supply - 18.5% and electricity supply - 13.4%, as well as wear of heat supply sources - 64.6%, water supply - 61.2% and power supply sources - 54.1%.
at a meeting with the President of the South African Republic, Jacob Zuma considered issues of strengthening cooperation in the political and trade and economic spheres.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and Chairman of the State Council and the Council of Ministers of the Cuban Republic raul castro considered the main aspects of strengthening cooperation between the two countries in various areas.
The conference discussed such issues as geopolitical contradictions between east and west, the possibilities of cooperation between the European Union (EU) and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), the implementation of the EU, the consideration of an agreement on free trade and economic harmonization on the Eurasian continent.
that is, the world community should develop scientific terms corresponding to the concept of world scientific discourse in order to correctly perceive our experience, "he said.
According to the Vice Minister, this year in the second direction, more than 10 billion tenge will be allocated for microcredit of 3.3 thousand self-employed and unemployed.
strengthening partnership with the Republic of Kazakhstan is beneficial to the Czech Republic. kazkahstan is one of most important partners for czech republic .
and our today's agreement is aimed at this, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
According to Y. Lyuchkovsky, the President of Kazakhstan pursues a visionary and constructive national policy, and this is very important against the background of difficult events in different regions of the world.
The constitutional rights of 24,454 citizens are protected, of which 3,100 people for 230 million tenge were returned on the issue of withdrawing wages, the prosecutor said.
our state will become the logistics center of Eurasia. our country will become transparent logistics center of eurasia .
during these negotiations, issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as the situation in Ukraine will be discussed, "the report said.
therapy, medical rehabilitation, neurology, obstetrics and gynecology, dermatovenerology, phthisiology, general medical practice, nephrology, pharmacology, pediatric neonatal anesthesiology and resuscitation, etc.
Under the leadership of N. Nazarbayev, the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Nұrly Zhol program are being effectively implemented.
the state provides great assistance to the agricultural sector. the state has a tremendous help to the farmers .
- work will continue in this regard.
Equipment worth 30 million tenge (30 million 076 thousand tenge) was purchased with funds collected during the second charity bike ride "Richos borovoye-2014," which took place on August 2014, 23.
the meeting also considered issues related to ensuring military, public, environmental, information security.
Recall, on January 27, 1944, the blockade of Leningrad lasted 872 days.
Last year, within the framework of the Industrialization Map, 10 processing projects were implemented in the manufacturing industry in the amount of 17.1 billion tenge, including 6 projects in the field of construction materials, 2 projects in the food industry, 1 project in the chemical industry and furniture production, "he said.
The training was attended by more than 100 employees of the regional and district akimats, including the department and departments of economy and budget planning, industrial and innovative development, tourism, entrepreneurship and trade.
In 2017, we will hold the world exhibition Expo-2017.
the new institute will include representatives of business and the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
we hope that this year will be a decisive one. we hope that this year will be crucial .
subsidization of interest rates on bank loans under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" amounted to 4.5 billion tenge.
Secondly, we are a large state, so we need to develop a single domestic market and establish balanced development, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
if imported, then only for technological purposes - sausage, canned food, "said a.mamytbekov.
According to him, iidmb projects are not the main part of the first five-year plan.
over the past five years, i.e. exchange of the tariff for investments made from 2009 to 2015, "the volume of investments increased by 5 times, which is about 700 billion tenge.
As of December 1, 2014, 4.06 billion tenge was transferred to the individual pension account of 101024 recipients.
This was made possible thanks to a new program aimed at construction at the expense of the Kazakhstan Credit Company fund.
in particular, anti-inflammatory, painkillers and heating drugs, some types of antibiotics, as well as syringes and gauze.
In 2015, 366 thousand tons of diesel fuel are needed for spring field work. spring field work will require 366 thousand tons of diesel fuel .
the parties noted the positive interaction of the two countries in the international arena, including within the framework of paired, Ansh, Shui, flexible and other international organizations.
The main core of our work is the transformation of the capital into the cultural, scientific and business center of Eurasia, the mayor of the capital noted.
This day was a bright holiday of good, friendship and love of all Kazakhstanis for each other, the leader of the nation said.
this is correct, and Kazakhstan should introduce the same criterion, "he continued.
34.2% of the technological structure of investments were construction and overhaul of buildings and structures, 27.6% - machinery, equipment, tools, 38.2% - other capital work and costs, the report said.
implementation of the Silk Road economic belt project will attract additional investments in the transport infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
learned about the new competition from the plot of the news. i learned about the competition posters from media .
Countries on other continents have also joined the initiative in recent years.
Financing is agreed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The Kazakh delegation included senior officials of ministries and the national company Kazagro.
Special attention was paid to the message of the President of the Republic "Nұr zhol - the way to the future," which determines the main directions of the country's economic development.
he noted that the government does not relate to the fate of the domestic auto industry.
The Ambassador familiarized representatives of Romanian business circles with the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan, benefits and incentives in priority sectors of the economy, special economic zones, priorities of industrial and innovative development in accordance with the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the main articles of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan are the "bright path," the statement said.
We hope that our cooperation will be strengthened at the expense of the Kazakhstani people and their region, "the text of the telegram says.
we will undoubtedly sign a document confirming the trust, support and respect of citizens for the head of state in the event of elections, the authors write.
During the meeting, medical workers worked on the following topics: "control of sanitary conditions in the troops," "prevention of siucide in the military environment," "Ebola" and "prevention."
About a thousand years ago, our ancestors were one homeland in central Asia and southern Russia.	norwegian historian sturla ellingvag also said :  presumably , thousand years ago our ancestors had a home somewhere in central asia and southern russia .
they submitted photo documents and printed materials. they have provided photographs , printed materials .
new implementation - a transition to management of economic support in the administrative command plan, "he said.
this is a military-political bloc against modern threats, that is, terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking, international crimes.
in this regard, the Ambassador clarified Slovakia's interest in further deepening bilateral cooperation.
the index of volume production of goods was at the level of 100.2%, the index of volume production of services was 106%.
Kazakhstan is a strategic partner. the united states is a strategic partner of kazakhstan .
Of course, Kazakh legislation, and our main role is the role of an observer, and we are spectators from an international organization at a large stadium. of course , the legislation of kazakhstan is accurate , and our role is the role of observers , now we are like on the big stadium , where we are the spectators , we present the international community .
adilbek ryskeldievich dzhaksybekov - akim of Astana city;
According to the Minister, 1.1 million tons were shipped to Central Asia - 685 thousand tons, to Afghanistan - 385 thousand tons.
we must raise the village.
Thanks to this work, we reduce the need for preschool institutions, "said A. Yessimov.
Until 2020, we will reconstruct 7 thousand new roads, and some will be rebuilt. by 2020 , we plan to renovate and build about 7,000 new highways .
I am sure that with this new mandate we will be able to continue strengthening bilateral cooperation between our countries. i am sure that we will continue to strengthen bilateral relations between our countries .
The Super Cup was won by the Almaty team Astana, who won on penalties.
We should use these opportunities to develop trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Tatarstan.
today is a national holiday. today it is a national holiday .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the country is interested in the development of economic and political ties, which should be facilitated by the agreement on a free trade zone, which is planned to be signed between the Euphrates member states and Vietnam.
we welcome the joy of your country and hope for further cooperation, "the telegram says.
It is noted that last year the number of cattle was brought to 589 heads, of which 326 heads, 5 gobies.
The volume of trade turnover in January-December 2014 amounted to 700.4 million US dollars (export - 518.9 million US dollars, import - 181.5 million US dollars), which is 23% more than in 2013.
We need a leader at the head of state who will continue to lead the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, the long-term strategy of Kazakhstan-2050.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country, about 20 thousand citizens of Kazakhstan can vote abroad.
the courts are ready to work under the new law, "the judge assured.
He said that Kazakhstan has created all conditions for foreign investment.
According to the director of the regional branch of the development fund, Rinat Taltusov, the state provides support to various companies operating in various sectors of the economy.
veterans expressed gratitude and blessed the meeting.
I have the opportunity to become the best specialist in my life, "he said.
Now 7 large companies are undergoing operational transformation, ktzh, kazpost, kazatomprom, kegod, kazneft, samruk-energo, fund and corporate center. such large companies as " national company " kazakhstan temir zholy " jsc , " kazpost jsc , the atomic company kazatomprom , kegoc jsc , " national company " kazmunaigas " jsc , samruk-energo and the fund itsel are undergoing the transformation .
In general, the forum discussed topical topics of bilateral economic cooperation, such as renewable energy sources, logistics, the food industry, healthcare, "dual" education and tourism.
Tokayev noted that Kazakhstan and Iran have great opportunities for further development of mutually beneficial political and economic cooperation.
11.5 billion tenge will be sent to akimats and local authorities. 11,5 billion tenge will be spent to the governor 's offices and local executive bodies through the mechanisms of the target and current transfers .
Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation with the people and the Government in the field of security, human rights, democratic development and independent institutions, and civil society. the united states hopes to work together with the government and people of kazakhstan on the common goals of security , prosperity , human rights and development of democratic and independent institutions , civil society in kazakhstan and the region .
of course, this will be the right step, "says Sergey Seliverstov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also talked with members of the labor collective.
from. Emphasized that in the development program "nұrly zhol" the head of state called the roads "life path" of Kazakhstan.
During the press conference, the Ministry of Energy made a presentation on the "hate support system in Kazakhstan."
teachers of schools and universities from Spain, Canada, Mongolia, China, Lithuania, Mexico and other countries presented their reports.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, 170 people were sent to operational courses on the basics of entrepreneurship in 2013, and 140 people in 2014.
In particular, 25 billion tenge is provided to support livestock farming and 50% of this amount will be allocated to subsidize livestock farming.
these ideas are very close to Kazakhstanis. these ideas are close to kazakhstan .
It is worth noting that the competition "warrior" will be held exactly in a year.
flights will be operated three times a week (Wednesday, Friday and Sunday).
Voting will end on April 26, 2015 at 20:00 rehabilitation time.
two days a week - Tuesday and Friday. two days a week - tuesday and friday children can use the swimming pool , " he said .
During the meeting, priority areas of cooperation in the legal sphere were discussed, including issues of combating crime, terrorism, extremism, cybercrime, drug trafficking, exchange of experience and information.
As part of the employment program 2020, 45 disabled people received more than 90 million tenge and began their activities.
the unconditional victory of the current president is carefree work for the benefit of the people, the result of the policy of every Kazakhstani aimed at ensuring the quality of life, the development of the state and strengthening the position of Kazakhstan in the world, the Nazarbayev's gift noted.
This year, the leadership of the state decided to intensify the work of our commission. this year , the country 's leadership decided to rebuild the work of our committee .
Kazakhstan's integration in international transport and communication flows is current and promising. the integration of kazakhstan into the international transport and communication flow is important and promising task .
the text of the law is published in the press.
cooperation in the framework of such international organizations and forums as ee, anshk, shu, asem and shoulders were also considered in detail, "the agency said.
the need to increase trade between Kazakhstan and Romania was noted.
Our goal is to ensure the production of products that have all the necessary opportunities for domestic production, "said A. Mamytbekov.
In 2014, 172,778 women received social benefits worth 44.6 billion tenge.
in other countries there are small business agencies, "said Krasen stanchev.
One of the innovations of the law, we clearly demonstrated the powers of the central executive bodies, including labor. one of the innovations of this law is that we clearly stated the competence of the central executive bodies , including the labor .
As part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, 12 projects of the road industry, the total length of roads 7.4 thousand km and the amount of financing 2.4 trillion tenge will be implemented, "the minister said.
some workers are planned to be trained at the new Tenaris plant in Romania.
they decided that it was necessary to reinvest their projects.
During the meeting with the participation of the heads of the two countries, the issues of strengthening bilateral cooperation in various areas, as well as the main areas of implementation of the joint economic program "new synergy" were considered.
I voted for the cashydromet this morning. i have voted in the morning in kazgydromet .
I urge all Kazakhstanis to correctly understand the foundations of state decisions that require time, such as budget adjustments, "said N. Nazarbayev.
we are ready to contribute to the development of our country, "said the director of the department of education and social development of the school named after Serikbaeva.
Due to the fact that further accessibility and quality play a key role, the following industries are the financial sector, transport and logistics, trade, tourism, real estate, professional and healthcare, "he said.
in the history of each people there were great heroes. great wars are in the history of every nation .
literature of Azerbaijani, Russian, Polish, German, Tatar peoples was presented at the festival.
As you know, now the exhibition "expo-2015" is held in Milan, the soloists of the Astana Opera Theater symbolically perceive the baton of this event and deliver it to Kazakhstan for the "expo-2017."
from CIS countries, including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
we are effectively implementing this work on microcredit, "said the Vice Minister.
The Center also holds international scientific and practical conferences, round tables, expert meetings, ready-made lectures.
We agree with representatives of the National Bank and, according to the instructions of the head of state, review how much each company needs currency this year. we have agreed with the national bank , on behalf of the head of state we will consider the necessity in the currency in 2015 with each company , also their posobilities , including the possibilities of borrowing in currencies within the company .
Recall that the pilot project is planned to be implemented in 2014-2015.
The Chairman of the National Bank also noted that in the near future the government will make changes to the budget in connection with the change in the macroeconomic plan.
since the first days of independence, the state has been supporting small and medium-sized businesses. the state provides support to small and medium-sized business since the first days of independence .
During a personal conversation, a strong drummer got acquainted with the problems of veterans, "the report said.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development together with the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region work with enterprises in the field of municipal infrastructure. the european bank for reconstruction and development together with the governor 's office of kyzylorda region work with the enterprises mainly in municipal infrastructure , but we also touch on other areas .
In February last year, an agreement was signed in the field of technical regulation and metrology between Kazakhstan Temir Zholy and Ak, Russian Railways, mm Belarusian Railways.
the economy grew 16 times, population incomes increased 17 times.
in November, the inflation rate in the eurozone was 0.3%.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, 250 billion tenge will be spent on the construction and purchase of housing, it is planned to purchase 1,483 thousand apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 29 thousand square meters from developers.
According to the bona fide director Serik Smailov, this production complex was the initiator of the "Made in Kazakhstan" action, which the head of state announced at an expanded government meeting.
streamlining tax and customs policies and procedures.
In addition, in the Almaty region, as part of the preparation and celebration of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, the action "70 star days" started.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, experts and specialists of the American consulting company mckinsey & company are involved in the development of the draft development program of Almaty.
According to him, during the two-day forum 30 sessions will be held.
Let me express our commitment to the further development of bilateral cooperation and the expansion of our friendly, historical ties for the benefit of the peoples of the two countries, "the telegram says.
During the meeting, the parties noted that creating favorable conditions for domestic business and increasing investment attractiveness is an urgent and important task for any state.
and as part of the chicken program, their number is 14.
consolidated total profit for the reporting period is KZT15,575 mln, which is 75% higher than the plan, "Satkaliyev said.
The cost of repairing two schools is 30 million tenge.
further development of cooperation will be discussed during the meeting.
these meetings are very important for our grandfathers and sisters. these meetings are of paramount importance for our grandparents .
this object was also implemented as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program and is included in the regional industrialization map.
the clear, coordinated work of the election commission in the center and regions, gardens and international observers created all the conditions for a free vote of our people, "he added.
The press conference will be attended by Ilyasa Novaskin, Head of the Administration Department of the Special Economic Zone "Capital - New City," Altayr Uizbaev, Chairman of the Board of Astana Innovations LLP.
The head of the communication center of the Hungarian government, the Secretary of State, the press secretary of the Prime Minister of Hungary Zoltan Kovacs discussed the experience of the communication strategy during the reforms of the Hungarian public service carried out by the Prime Minister in 2010-2014.
Thus, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan registered as a presidential candidate Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, a crook Syzdykov, Abylgaz Kaliakparula Kusainov.
also within the framework of the event, bilateral meetings a were held. Musinova and the heads of delegations of a number of member states, during which the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, cooperation in multilateral formats, including in 2017-2018. The parties discussed issues of supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, holding an "expo 2017," as well as signing and ratifying constituent documents.
The commission was attended by deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of central state bodies, the national bank and the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
The projects were launched on January 1, 2014, "the report said.
In principle, we are trying to unite the work of not only state bodies, but also sponsors who provide support, "said Deputy Prime Minister B. Saparbayev.
In an open letter to employees and veterans of Kazakhstan Railway, it is noted that in the context of the difficult financial and economic situation in the world in our country there is a clear anti-crisis development plan - a new economic policy "nұrly Zhol."
the development of the city is always under my personal attention and is a priority of the state, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
many of our allies associate their plan with Kazakhstan. "
we are forming a modern public service, a fair court, a new industry, a nation of a united future and a state-accountability.
According to him, everyone who finished last came from different regions of the country: Shymkent, Atyrau, Astana, Almaty.
according to the chairman of the Senate, during aggravation of an international situation, emergence of conflict situations in the world and the crisis phenomena in global economy the internal political stability aimed at entry into group of the most developed countries of the world of strategy Kazakhstan-2050, concepts of "the eternal country" will be provided, For successful implementation of the program "Nrla zhol" favorable conditions have to be created.
if we support the policies of our president, then we can maintain and flourish the existing values, unity, harmony and Kazakhstan, "concluded S. Pulatov.
Kazakhstan can count on the fact that in the European Union it has such a reliable friend as our country.
its territory covers the Akmolar, Karaganda, Kostanay and North Kazakhstan regions.
Within the program "Nrla zhol" for creation of new jobs in the area infrastructure projects, including on completion of construction in the Kazakhstan part of the Western European-Chinese transport corridor and also on construction of inhabited and shobsky objects will be implemented", - B. saparbayev told.
it will also attract large investments for the city and for Kazakhstan as a whole, "Idrissov said.
The task of state bodies is the qualitative implementation of the state's social policy, "said B. Saparbayev.
we must preserve it, give our unity to the younger generation, "he concluded.
He also noted that this year is taking place in the troops under the slogan "our achievements are a great victory."
the share of the national budget in the total amount of spent investments in the field of education and health care - 38.1%, the local budget - 49.6% or less (12.3%) is accounted for by the own funds of enterprises, organizations and the population.
all election commissions are ready for elections and vote counting, "said B. Meldeshov.
Allow me to congratulate you on your election as President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. let me express my sincere congratulations on your victory in the elections of the president of the republic of kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan continues to develop cooperation with international organizations and electoral bodies of foreign countries, actively participating in the work of international forums and the activities of international organizations related to the electoral process.	m. sarsembayev noted that the cec of kazakhstan continues to work on the development of cooperation with the international organizations and election authorities of foreign countries , taking an active part in the international forums , in the activities of the international organizations relating to the electoral process .	1,30
More than 11 thousand veterans received other types of assistance (household appliances, means of transportation, mandatory hygienic means, social taxis, hairdressers, bath services, installation of cable television) in the amount of 53.2 million tenge.	over 11 000 veterans received other assistance ( acquired by household appliances , vehicles , mandatory hygiene , social services are provided taxi , hairdressers , baths , installation of cable tv and others . ) in the amount of 53.2 million tenge .	1,30
The President of Kazakhstan noted the high level of friendly and fraternal relations between the two countries.	kazakhstan 's president noted that the relations between the two countries are friendly and brotherly at a very high level .	1,30
Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev and Minister of Economy of the Republic of Turkey signed a protocol to improve measures of the New Synergy joint economic program.
Kazakh diplomat noted the growth of trade between the two countries in recent years and the expansion of economic cooperation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that women are the basis for the well-being of every family and the competitiveness of Kazakhstan.
According to the minister, the Ministry of Justice has made a number of changes to the law.
According to the owners of the meeting, the program of the President of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol" and the initiative of the Chairman of the PRC "one belt - one way" are a single reflection of the bright future of long-term cooperation.
in addition, the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program and industrialization were discussed, "the press service of the department said.
339.9 million tenge was allocated for this direction.
On the basis of the first international forum expo-2017, a memorandum was signed on the holding of an international competition of "green" innovations and projects "online expo-2017."
The participants of the meeting noted that the VIII Astana Economic Forum is an important discussion platform for discussing global socio-economic issues.
In addition, the event was attended by deputies of the regional maslikhat, representatives of the Council of Veterans of the Second World War, members of the Assembly of the Akmola of People of Kazakhstan and youth.
train of my Kazakhstan "in 30 days across the country visited 29 settlements, more than 920 thousand Kazakhstanis took part in the events.
According to the head of state, there are two types of private property in Kazakhstan: rent and actual privatization.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the majority of Oralmans - 61.5% - from Uzbekistan, 14.3% - from China, 9.3% - from Mongolia, 6.8% - from Turkmenistan, 4.6% - from Russia, 3.5% - from other countries.
As part of the long-term financing of processing production at the expense of the first tranche of the national fund, the second level banks (edb) as of February 5 approved 8 projects worth more than 13 billion tenge. under the long-term financing of the manufacturing industry the second-tier banks ( stb ) approved eight projects as of february 5 totaling over 13 billion tenge at the expense of the first tranche of the national fund .
we created air, ground and regular lines of communication, that is, we were preparing for war with Japan.
During a working trip in the Shcherbakty district, the head of the region got acquainted with the progress of spring field work on the fields of limited liability partnerships Vigis, Abay, Pobeda, and also met with agricultural producers.
By May 1, 2015, participants should send an essay on one of the following proposed topics: "The importance of the EXPO for my country, the importance of" green technologies "for the modern world" or "my profession and my contribution to the industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan."
Within the framework of the event, a memorandum of cooperation was concluded between kaznex invest and the Chamber of Commerce and Economy of Armenia.
the conference is attended by scientists from Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, the Republic of Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, employees of the state archives of the capital, kokshetau, the cities of Kostanay, museums, libraries, teachers of higher educational institutions, etc.
the port of Lianyungan, the "lead-east gate" and the whitewash port will facilitate the transportation of goods to central Asia, "he said.
I want to wish the Kazakh people to achieve their goals, "he concluded.
In particular, in 2014 fitness clubs and food halls went up by 8.3%, exchange points - by 6.8%, restaurants - by 6.5%, production workshops - by 6.2%, pharmacies - by 5.8%.
The Government sees no legal obstacle to the holding of elections. the government sees no obstacles for the elections .
According to him, only "taikazan" was able to bring our past and unite our present.
in particular, housing coverage in the capital, Almaty, with growth, family, taldykorgan, kyzylorda, karaganda, taraz, shymkent, pavlodar, kostanay, zharkent, in the cities temirtau and batyz, guards, saryzek, b. momyshuly, Construction, overhaul and acquisition will be carried out in otars, villages akmol,
hero is suitable for any period of the year.
the capital should become the most important transport hub of the entire continent connecting Asia and Europe, the akim said. the capital should become an important transport hub for the continent , connecting asia and europe , " - the mayor said .
I am pleased to meet the 70th anniversary of the great victory in the new apartment, "the veteran noted.
big enough events are expected next year. next year we will mark a lot of significant events .
unemployment has declined over the years. the unemployment rate has declined over the years .
we must assess mutual trade.
The Eurasian Economic Union is a regional international economic integration with an international legal entity.
the area of ​ ​ fruit and berry plantations decreased by 4.7% and melons - by 1.0%.
The project was supported as part of the Brzhk-2020 program to subsidize an interest rate in the amount of a loan of 2.6 billion tenge.
the expanded session also considered the draft law "On ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on civil defense, prevention and elimination of emergency situations."
For example, already in this region, the Italian company italcementigroup is engaged in the production of cement.
in principle, all objects are ready for us.
he is a native of the Karaganda region.
We hope that they will take part in the elections, "he said.
their total production capacity is 158.9 thousand tons of milk and dairy products per year.
he has like a mobile phone, followed by a sauce button.
posters visited more than diamonds, akmola and West Kazakhstan regions.
until elected, they will be in the position of "acting."
current investment opportunities of Kazakhstan were discussed in D.M.Ego-Agiero.
the city is the center of culture, finance and sports of the country.
The sides also discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres.
These days, a republican social action of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "Asar" is taking place in all regions of the country.
all diplomatic resources would be used to achieve that goal.
A number of aspects of the expansion of innovation and investment cooperation and the preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital were also considered.
Within the framework of the meeting, Armekbayev held bilateral consultations with Afghan, Kyrgyz, Russian and Tajik colleagues.
In 2014, 33 educational facilities were commissioned and overhauled.
this is really an unprecedented event, "the expert continued.
During the meeting, issues of effective counteraction to international terrorism and extremism were discussed, the report said.
For me, distinguished ministers and delegates of the Government of Kazakhstan, it is a great honor to be in Kazakhstan, for the first time here I got a good impression. honourable ministers and delegates of the government of kazakhstan , it is a privilege for me to be here in kazakhstan , i remember for the first time in my life i was here and we were left good impression .
It will be the same formula as 1 plus 11, "the minister explained.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the meeting discussed priority issues of bilateral cooperation and cooperation of countries within the EU, exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda, in particular, resolving the situation in Ukraine, the Iranian nuclear program, and the sustainable development of Afghanistan.
Currently, Gaz-ir Agro LLP is engaged in safflower cultivation and safflower oil processing.
The head of state also noted that a meeting of the Supreme Council of the Eurasian Economic Union will be held recently in Moscow.
in particular, the meeting discussed the implementation of the Newton al-Farabi partnership program, as well as the relationship of our country with the British Council on international scholarship "the future."
in the chemical, mining, construction, transport, oil and gas industries by group of companies of the fund.
In general, Zhok in LLP began implementing the project in March of this year, "the report said.
The Ambassador got acquainted with the main content of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol," drawing attention to its combination with the "economic field of the silk road."
also as part of the concert, the grand opening of the Astana piano passion international festival of young pianists will take place with the participation of classical music and Denis Matsuev.
As the people's representative noted, primary projects with the financing of the Development Fund are being implemented in the capital.
As part of the new project, the college is included in the dual learning roadmap, changes have been made to the specialty programs "catering," marketing "," repair and maintenance of refrigeration devices "in the educational institution.
in March, prices in the country amounted to 1 thousand tenge for 225 square meters. m
The Minister expressed satisfaction with the successful interaction between Kazakhstan and the EU at various levels, including between the parliamentarians of the two countries.
It is also necessary to involve civil society in the budgeting process at the regional level, "he said.
During these meetings, the Austrian side informed about the political and economic situation in Kazakhstan, the implementation of the presidential election campaign of the Republic of Kazakhstan, preparations for EXPO-2017, the implementation of the Nұrly Zhol program, measures to support investors and the new industrialization program for 2015-2019, preparations for the winter universiades 2017 in Almaty and the promotion of demand for the winter Olympic Games in 2022.
yesterday we carried out a great session work with the block of government agencies, where the format and prospects of the association were discussed, "said B. Kenzhebolatov.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, new developments in the field of nuclear medicine will be presented at the forum.
there are two codes: civil procedure and entrepreneurial.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 22.4%, fruits and vegetables - 10.8%, dairy, oil and fat products and eggs - 16.2%, bread and cereals - 8.7%, sugar, tea and spices - 1.9%.
We intend to use the advantages of further economic integration to develop investment attractiveness, create processing industries. we intend to continue economic integration for the development of investment attractiveness , establishment of processing industries .
we want stability and peace in Afghanistan, "he said.
to Mangistau - 4 days, to Aktobe - 3 days, to Ural - 4 days, "the report said.
their total value is 2.4 trillion tenge.
In conclusion, Vladimir Putin noted that he intends to take part in the trilateral meeting of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia in the capital, scheduled for March.
On April 20, 2015, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution "On accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015," according to which, on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, another 146 observers from two election observation missions, one international organization and four foreign states were accredited.
The senator noted that there are 1,388 military-patriotic clubs, sections and circles in Kazakhstan, which contain 37 thousand young Kazakhstanis.
the military exploits of our grandfathers are a vivid example for future officers of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and defenders of the Fatherland, "he said.
we are glad to see such an age, this suggests that young people are not indifferent to the future of the country, "he said.
We will support all objects connected to the program, "said A. Issekeshev.
Speaking about Kazakh-Vietnamese relations, the Chairman of the meeting noted that this state is an important political and economic partner of Kazakhstan in southeast Asia.
Thanks to the work carried out, 1,865 people received loans, in 2012 - 11,665 hectares, in 2013 - 11,743 hectares, in 2014 - 11,871 hectares, "the statement said.
According to representatives of the department, despite a double drop in oil prices, thanks to the processing industry, it was possible to maintain real industrial growth in 2014 due to more stable sectors of the manufacturing industry.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the conference discussed methodological issues: "world historical contribution to the victory over Nazism," "eastern Kazakhstan during the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945," "seventy in the Great Patriotic War: aspects of culture and literature," Altai women are heroes of the Soviet Union of the Great Patriotic War. "
According to the akmola of the media center, the spout Ivan Ivanovich was born on August 26, 1924, last year he turned 90 years old.
this metropolis is the golden cradle of independence of Kazakhstan - the beginning of the new history of our republic.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs noted the support of foreign countries for the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan.
Therefore, the main idea of ​ ​ the assembly year is "my country is an eternal country!," The head of state addressed.
The population of the city of Astana as of January 1, 2015 amounted to 852985 people, including 379943 (44.5%) in the Almaty region, 126799 (14.9%) in the Yesil district, 346243 (40.6%) in the saryarka district, "the report said.
It should be noted that the g-global project will make it possible to promote the main international Kazakhstan initiatives.
From January 1, 2015, the state program "Affordable Housing 2020" became part of a comprehensive program for the development of regions until 2020, which allowed the development of regions and large agglomerations.
The national tennis center in Shymkent was built by the Tennis Federation of Kazakhstan on behalf of the head of state.
10 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a plant for the production of ungazed limestone with a capacity of 25 thousand tons per year, 60 jobs (Igdanit LLP) is being created;
we watched the secrecy of the elections, "said the stepan mesich.
240 million tenge will be allocated for the construction of a kindergarten for 280 places in the city of Aksu, 1.6 billion tenge - for the development of the housing sector in the city of Pavlodar, 3.2 billion tenge - for the heat and water supply of the Ekibastuz city.
We need to interest him and make a result, "he said.
292 ANC entities were covered by financial recovery, on behalf of the Head of State it is necessary to bring them to 500 billion tenge, which after changes in the budget were approved by the commission, now the rehabilitation of business entities is ongoing, "he said.
subsidies in the amount of 1.2 billion tenge were paid to them at the expense of the state.
The Vietnamese expert community was informed about the opportunities opened for business as part of the implementation of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol," in particular, the implementation of the strategic plan for the development of transport, industrial and energy infrastructure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as participation in the preparation and holding of the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
According to the head of the Croatian government, this visit will contribute to the further development of cooperation between the two countries.
The history of the assembly is the history of our stability, we must respect it, we must always remember and appreciate it - this is the main thing for the memory of the people, for friendship, for mutual understanding of our children and grandchildren, "the President said.
today it is very important to consolidate all citizens around our leader Nursultan Nazarbayev, strengthen unity, harmony and stability, and consolidate the foundation of the state.
In recent years, more than 500 billion tenge was spent on the development of the region, 500 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, five schools and 2 kindergartens were built. more than 500 billion tenge has been invested in the development of the region in recent years , 500 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned , 5 schools and 2 kindergartens were built .
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Andrian Yelemesov familiarized the participants of the round table with the opportunities for the development of the Kazakh economy in the streaming sector, national innovative potential, preferences for foreign business and investment in Kazakhstan.
As reported, more than 65 companies - leading companies of Kazakhstan, Russia, Germany, Italy, baa and the Czech Republic will take part in the combined production.
the concert will be attended by the theater choir and orchestra of the Astana Opera Theater, soloists of the Abay State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater, artists of the state Zhambyl Philharmonic, "said the scientist of the Ahmediyars.
selected projects mechanical engineering, construction industry, light, food, chemical, pharmaceutical production.
- Expressing the mandate of confidence in the head of state, at a new stage of world development we will be able to unite our people and focus on important issues of the development of the state.
The direction of development of infrastructure projects in the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" will contribute to the development of tourism in Kazakhstan.
On the agenda of the military council, the selection of candidates for military universities, academies and the nomination of military personnel for the promotion of the Ministry of Defense and the leadership of the state were considered.
It should be noted that the scientific event is attended by leading experts from China, Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan and the European Union, as well as representatives of state organizations of the country, international organizations and diplomatic missions registered in Kazakhstan.
Today, the capital hosted bilateral meetings of the Prime Ministers of Kazakhstan and Croatia, during which a protocol of intent was signed between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of Croatia.
According to Sultanov, work in this direction will continue.
construction of a road of category 1-b, the width of the territory - 25.5 m, the number of lanes - 4, the width of the diversion berths - 3 m, the width of the side of the road - 70 km, the estimated high speed of transport - 120 km/h, the estimated average speed of transport - 80 km/h, the type of road surface - warm asphalt concrete.
According to the UN, the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to convene a meeting on interaction and confidence-building measures in Asia is important in ensuring security on the Asian continent.
We will do this work in 2017, we plan to take on this experience, "he said.
prospects of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Japan and the planned official visit of the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo abe to Kazakhstan this year.
He noted that thanks to the support of the President of Kazakhstan for 10 years Kazakhstan has been among the top 30.
stage 1 - for April of this year, stage 2 - for June.
Astana Expo-2017 "told the participants about the main ideas of the international exhibition Expo-2017.
According to the document, it was decided to create a joint venture between a subsidiary of ktz express and the Chinese company minsheng logistics co., ltd in order to attract additional cargo flows to the great silk road.
The Chinese Ambassador noted that China recognizes Kazakhstan as a strategically important partner and noted the high pace of humanitarian cooperation between the two countries. chinese ambassador said that china considers kazakhstan as comprehensive strategic partner and expressed its opinion on the active maintenance of humanitarian cooperation between the two countries .
According to the parties, Kazakhstan and Lithuania are important political and economic partners in Central Asia.
during this time, operators paid 75 thousand tons of fuel (51% of the plan), carriers delivered 65 tons of fuel (44% of the plan).
Akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev took part in the launch ceremony of mengytau business executive entrepreneurship training program.
the national idea "Kazakhstan-2050," the program "Nұrly zhol" and 5 people's reforms.
157 participants of DKZ-2020 will be provided with microcredits totaling 451 million tenge.
in the political and economic situation in today's world, they once again determined the need to strengthen the national economy, its development and support entrepreneurship, "explained M.
Kazakhstan is currently consistently dealing with this issue, "the minister added.
Issues of bilateral cooperation were discussed during the meeting.
In 2014, under the program of East Kazakhstan region "Employment Roadmap 2020," 393.6 thousand tenge was allocated from the republican budget to provide employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services.
a sports palace is under construction. the construction of the palace of sports is continued .
During the talks, the parties drew attention to the need to expand cooperation between the two countries. the two sides stressed the necessity to expand the cooperation between the two countries .
Only in the Noble Dream residential complex in the city of Kaskelen, about three thousand families celebrated housewarming, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
According to the report of RK the banks of the second level as of 14.05.2015 opened 114 savings accounts on legalization of the money for total amount of 68.0 billion tenges including withdrawn from the savings account of 23.8 billion tenges with payment in the budget of 2.6 billion tenges of charge for legalization of money.
First Deputy Minister for Investment and Development Kassymbek and First Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor JSC Ulan Alipov visited Mangistau region with a working trip.
the most difficult of them is the production of diesel engines "the capital is a new city," Issekeshev said at a briefing in the CCS.
taking into account the changes, the regional budget for the current year is 112.9 billion tenge, "the report said.
According to Artem Koshikov, Deputy Director of Petrostroy Luxury LLP, work has been completed on the construction of the lower and first floors of kindergarten and sewerage.
And the potential opportunities should cause a "new growth" of the region's economy, "said Rustem Zhanunakov, director of Novy Kokshetau LLP, head of the Akmola delegate.
this visit will allow me to get to know a really Kazakhstani, his people, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, 32 of them will be dressed in the uniform of sanitary instructors, including as part of the company of the historical unit during the Second World War parade, and the remaining 154 servicemen in the modern part of the parade will walk on the field separately from cadets of Kazakh military universities.
Interest in participating in the competition began to show, "he said.
among them are Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev, Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Issekeshov and others.
For his service in the internal affairs bodies he was awarded the Order of the Badge of Honor and the badge "Excellent Police Officer."
as part of the Schengen regime, we are also trying to facilitate the entry of Kazakhstanis into Hungary, "he said during a business forum in the capital.
the financial model of plant recovery and restart "biterek venture fund" provides for the influx of investments in the launch of the production of oxy textile LLP, receiving white raw materials.
230 thousand tons of oilseeds were collected, compared to 2013, production volumes increased by 65%.
The European Quality Prize is an authoritative European gift for improving business process management and performance.
During the meeting, the current state of cooperation between the capital and Bangkok was discussed, a plan was outlined for the further development and deepening of cooperation between the capitals of the two countries.
According to the regional Governor's Office, in 2015 it is planned to complete the construction of 7 residential buildings for 987 apartments at the expense of the National Fund of Kazakhstan and the budget under the program "Development of Regions - 2020."
Over the past 3 years, 300 schools have been built in Kazakhstan. over the past three years kazakhstan has built more than 300 schools .
A sample audit of the household in 2014 showed that the bulk of the income of the population or 66.8% is income from services, 27.3% are social transfers (pensions, scholarships, state social benefits), 4.2% of material assistance from relatives, and alimony and other sources of income (income from personal property, cash income) is 1.7%.
we completed the first five-year plan, moved on to the second industrialization.
The king noted the relevance of the domestic and foreign policy of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and sent a greeting and respect to the ambassador, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
the bill has been prepared in order to implement the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Youth Policy."
in the region 322 citizens from 77 low-income families were assigned state social assistance in the amount of 8,178,2 thousand tenge.
During the lecture, the issues of purchasing apartments by youth through the capabilities of the program "Modernization of MSW-2020" were discussed.
According to the representative of the European Union, the training program "economic expertise and the development of programs and action plans at the local level (preparation of targeted programs for regional and rural regions)" was prepared by the expert of the European Union project "Regional Development of Kazakhstan."
At the conference with the participation of representatives of state bodies, business, garden and non-governmental organizations, heads of leading Thai companies, chambers of commerce and associations shared their experience and views.
I have repeatedly travelled to Croatia to establish effective bilateral economic ties, because there are no obstacles between our countries. i visited croatia several times in order to establish effective bilateral economic relations , as there is no obstacle between the two countries .
Given our work, we know what violations may be, what they had.
As the head of the holding noted, in the European direction, communication has been established with the European Bank for Reverse Construction and Development.
The business community got acquainted with the achievements of Kazakhstan in the political, socio-economic sphere and the investment potential of the country.
first of all, they took patients with serious illnesses.
In the period from March 16 to May 4 of this year, mobilization groups covered 525 remote rural districts in all regions of the country, visiting them 1,218 times, including 12 unscheduled ones.
Let me remind you why Kazakhstan is dominated by investments, Kazakhstan is open for business and is the best state in this area in central Asia.	kazakhstan is open for business and this is the best country in central asia to do business .	1,32
I wish all of us only good and peace to society, "the akim said.
if today in our stores 10 pieces of Russian eggs will be sold at 170-180 tenge, then domestic products will be sold at 150 tenge, possibly even lower, "the akim said.
It is planned that Kazakhstan's export potential will reach 7 million tons in 2014-2015. the export potential of kazakhstan is expected to reach 7 million tons in 2015 .
her wife raised 8 children with a pearl, 15 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
the share of products is 102.9%, in Kazakhstan - 99.6%.
The meeting was attended by more than 70 delegates of Central Asian and South Caucasian countries in the form of heads of emergency departments, representatives of diplomatic missions, donor organizations, steam agencies, international organizations.
In addition, a strategy for transport security in the territory of the CIS States during international communications, a concept of interregional and cross-border cooperation of the CIS member States for the period up to 2020, as well as a concept for the formation and development of an interstate system of training, professional retraining and advanced training of personnel in the field of intellectual property were approved.
600 of them are doctors of the highest category, 330 civil servants, 80 scientists, 1,500 domestic teachers and training centers, 200 schoolchildren and 150 workers and 2 thousand managers.
A. Yelemesov informed the interlocutors about the socio-economic successes of Kazakhstan and the country's achievements in the international arena, including the experience of developing the interreligious and intercultural dialogue of Kazakhstan, as well as the upcoming V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions in the capital in June.
During the meeting the ambassador informed on achievements of Kazakhstan for years of independence of the republic, the current internal political situation and cooperation on the international scene and also on the celebration of the 20 anniversary of the Constitution of RK and Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan and also the 550 anniversary of the Kazakh khanate and the organization of the international exhibition "Expo - 2017" in 2017 in the capital.
therefore, I declare that I will nominate myself in the presidential election. " Nazarbayev.
In January-February of this year, large and medium-sized enterprises increased the production of cookies and confectionery by 83.3%, flour - by 22.4%, milk - by 4.1%, "the report said.
According to the chairman of the board, the program is a logistical step in the development of the country's economy.
The purpose of the business mission of the PRC is to further promote economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation, the report said.
The meeting was attended by the Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council. Minister of Defense and Tasmagambetov, First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces.
ECE members discussed problematic economic and financial policy issues.
a number of military personnel were awarded medals "for courage," "for military exploits."
The sides discussed the possibility of implementing new projects within the framework of the Central Asian regional program of economic cooperation and further cooperation in the areas of trade, energy and trade facilitation in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the conference, the participants were sent videos about the economy and the expo-2017 exhibition, as well as various image handouts about Kazakhstan.
In addition, Thai guests enjoyed Armenia, Belarusian, Kazakhstani, Russian and Uzbek national dishes.
the share of private property enterprises in the regional volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 40.7%, in state ownership - 1.6%.
the family is the basis of the state, the family is the strength of the state.
Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan:	 prosecutor general 's office of kazakhstan officially warned about the responsibility for :
The conference was attended by methodologists, deputy directors of schools of Astrakhan, Arshinsky, Shortansky, Egindykol, Kurgan, Zerendinsky, Akkol, Tselinograd districts.
in this regard, it is important to continue the qualitative implementation of the planned programs of privatization, asset restructuring, measures including cost reduction and income increase, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
During this period, in accordance with article 16 of the Military Service and the Status of Military Personnel Act, about 100,000 persons were registered at conscription stations.
it is still the support of our citizens for the country's economy, "he said. Nazarbayev.
This year, the East Kazakhstan regional branch of the Nұr Otan party organizes an event within the framework of the Happy Childhood and Barrier-Free Future party projects.
he, like thousands of Kazakhstanis, worked on virgin fields and participated in the rise of our country from post-war destruction.
Following the meeting, the Ministers signed an action plan between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Russia for 2015-2016.
in future years, the programme space will be expanded and amended in the first year.
marked out Mr. Abdikalikov that for years of implementation of the future program 7,929 experts for various sectors of the economy, including more than 3 thousand engineers and technologists, about 600 doctors, 1 more than 500 teachers, teachers, scientists, doctors of 81 phd, more than 2,000 specialists of the national and private companies are trained.
The games were attended by about 15 thousand young people representing Kazakhstan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and other 2 countries.
In general, the idea of ​ ​ the project is based on the comprehensive principle of "housing, work and rest in one place" and is implemented within the framework of the previously adopted concept of "Almaty - a city comfortable for life."
the historical section is involved here. this is the historical part .
He noted that Kazakhstan has concluded specific agreements with Russian, Chinese and European states.
shymkent, indeed, the greenhouse capital of Kazakhstan. "
we will return the application, which was incorrectly compiled by the second-tier bank, "he said.
first of all, the program became available to rural entrepreneurs. the program has become more accessible for rural business .
this is the President of Kazakhstan. One of Nazarbayev's opportunities to realize the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country." "
He noted that if we compare the presidential elections with European countries, including Serbian, then the electoral process in Kazakhstan was held at a much higher level.
military units (institutions) of Akmola, diamond, Karaganda, Taldykorgan and Semipalatinsk garrisons were also checked.
the enterprise produces fungicides, insecticides, herbicides.
The competition is held on the site of the social network "sailau2015.el.kz" as part of the special platform "el.kz."
According to him, 186 houses were flooded in Akmola, Pavlodar and North Kazakhstan regions, 179 houses are currently pumped out.
Speaking about bilateral relations in the sphere of economy, I.Adyrbekov noted that Kazakhstan pays great attention to the development of transport and transit potential.
The Minister of Economy praised the socio-economic achievements of Kazakhstan and the vision of the President of Kazakhstan in the conditions of instability of the world economy, the report said.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kingdom of Thailand Marat Yesenbaev, combining the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Myanmar Union;
According to nadloc, a group of production companies "kazplast" and "strong formation" are the promoters of the policy of the President of Kazakhstan in this area.
The ceremony will be attended by more than 100 talented artists from Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Moldova, Mongolia, as well as Kazakhstan, Bashkortostan, Altai, Tuva, Sakha-Yakutia, Khakassia, Dagestan.
we always take care of them. we take constant care of them .
This year, the theme of the forum is called "infrastructure as a driver of sustainable economic growth."
Last year, we sent 2050 people under this program, this year we plan to bring this figure to 5 thousand people, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
MP M.Pischbayev "has become a driver of the growth of the machine-building industry of Kazakhstan.
the experience of the assembly is also relevant for Turkey. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the pace of socio-economic development of the region.
in general, entrepreneurship should use the opportunities provided through industrial and innovative development, nұrly zhol programs, road and housing construction, and modernization of housing and communal services.
It is reported that 95.1 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the construction of a medical outpatient clinic in the village of makhambet.
senators supported the initiative of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
it is necessary to include the values ​ ​ of the Kazakh idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" in the school curriculum.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the new center, uniting Slavic ethnocultural associations "unity," "German," "oratory" bard, included labor veterans, honorary citizens of the region and representatives of various nationalities.
Speaking about the upcoming early presidential elections on April 26, the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan focused on the early entry into implementation of the tasks set for the new mandate state and its leadership, and active work to curb the negative effects of external factors for the coming period, ensure the fulfillment of the goals and improve the quality of life of the country's population.
I think that the basis of good partnership is an intergovernmental commission represented by Kazakhstan in the trade and economic sphere, every year the commission plays an important role in the field of economic cooperation between our countries, "said Algirdas Butkevicius.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the measures taken for the sustainable development of the country will be taken tomorrow. "
According to him, Kazakhstan managed to conduct a balanced foreign policy and choose the right strategic development path based on issues of industrialization of the economy and improving the well-being of the population.
one strategy for the development of the infrastructure of the electric power industry is specified.
military attachés from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Armenia and Mongolia were invited to attend the weekly seminar.
For further work, the support of the population is necessary, "said the head of state.
According to him, local content increased for goods by 54%, for works - by 96%.
Within the framework of the meeting, Armekbayev held bilateral consultations with Afghan, Kyrgyz, Russian and Tajik colleagues.
The business forum was attended by representatives of about 100 Austrian companies, governments and business associations.
New contracts are also being considered.
the main goal of this mega-project is to strengthen the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, public concentration around the policy of peace and the consent of the head of state, the implementation of the fundamental principles of the state policy "one people is one country," the doctrine of national unity of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, according to him, on behalf of the head of state, the government decided to implement a new export policy.
this is the best example.
subsidization of interest rate in the amount of the project loan 2.6 billion tenge was supported under the program "Brzk-2020," up to 17.3 million tenge.
According to the regional akimat, special memoranda were signed between the public fund "Nұrly zhol" and the Kyzylorda city department of education, departments of employment and social programs, culture and development of languages, physical culture and sports, internal policy.
among them are French danone, the association of French business circles in Kazakhstan, the German general company for the production of fittings and other German and Italian companies.
3 billion tenge will be allocated for the implementation of production infrastructure for 10 projects.
today we plan to visit 10 polling stations, approximately 5 until noon in the city of Astana, 4 after lunch, "the observer added.
at the request of the Senate of Parliament, the Constitutional Council adopted a normative resolution on this issue, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
charity, education, culture, art, medicine and a healthy lifestyle, sports and leisure, legal and information assistance. the main activities : charity , education , culture , art , medicine and healthy lifestyle , sport and leisure , information and legal assistance .
Kazakhstan company service pipe holding together with cnpc will start manufacturing large-sized steel pipes.
During the conversation, it was noted that a meeting of the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France in the capital is planned to be held in late January.
in particular, the prospects of expanding cooperation in the industrial sector, investment and innovation spheres, as well as in the field of military-technical cooperation were considered.
we said that this company operates in the local market.
According to him, Kazakhstan focused on creating a favorable zone for investment.
kuandyk turgankulov is the chairman of the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan; Tatyana Vitalievna Okhlopkova was appointed a member of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- the construction of three major tourist facilities - the coxsay ski base, the mountain samal complex and the yurt hotel, "the head of state said.
After the creation of the district, we allocated 5 billion 100 million tenge from the city budget, of which 900 million were spent on the development of education. we have allocated 5 billion 100 million for the needs of the new area .
we believe that our political and cultural ties are at the proper level, and we feel that your support is on his side, "said the Prime Minister of Hungary.
our goal is to form a new appearance for the national carrier company. "
we will create all conditions for the convenience of passengers, "said the president of" passenger transportation. "
therefore, we are now investing a lot in infrastructure, "the minister explained.
The managing director of Astana Expo-2017, British Ambassador to Kazakhstan Carolyn Brown, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Ongerbekov, Aigul Solovyova, Serik Ospanov, Hope Nesterov, Akimat of Arshaly district, military personnel, home front workers, as well as students and teachers of Vyacheslav secondary school took part in the planting.
maybe not all issues have yet been resolved, but the results of the negotiations raise great hopes for the future, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is the friendship, support and unity of all Kazakhstanis.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the development of the state language is important for the future of the country.
in general, the result of supervisory activity at the electoral stage allows us to formulate that early presidential elections were held in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the constitutional law "On Elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Recall that today the VIII Astana Economic Forum is taking place.
According to the ambassador, the Eurasian Economic Union will sign a document on a free trade zone with Vietnam in Kazakhstan.
The participants were also presented with the projects "Akkol Young Resort City," "Ecopolis Akkol" for the further development of the Akkol region.
The Baikonur Forum has developed as a dialogue platform for business and the authorities of the Kyzylorda region.
550 years have passed since then, and we must not forget history, "he added.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister informed foreign diplomats about the main priorities of the development of Kazakhstan's society at the present stage, which President Nursultan Nazarbayev demonstrated in the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "bright path."
a scientific and expert council, a council of elders, a council for public relations and a garden were also created at the assembly.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister held a meeting on the development of local content and employment.
in some countries, the unemployment rate is 10-20%, "said B. Saparbayev.
As previously reported, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev during a meeting with Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 National Company Talgat Ermegiyaev instructed to involve domestic business in the creation of the expo-2017 exhibition complex.
prior to this visit, we plan to hold a meeting of the intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, cultural and scientific development of Iran and Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
we have completed the main stages of the elections. we have completed the main stages of the election campaign .
the Atameken Chamber is represented in all working groups, and work is actively underway in all areas.
The norms of the laws "on energy saving and improving energy efficiency," "on state property" and "on permits and notifications" are also specified, - summed up the Minister of Finance.
This day is a holiday for Kazakhstanis, "Dr. Karich said.
we hope that those technologies that will be presented today will be used in the implementation of new projects, "he continued.
Today, the Youth Research Center is developing a training program on state youth policy and is being introduced on the basis of the Eurasian National University.
As noted at the meeting in the ministry, Kazakhstan will be ranked among the countries with low investment among the countries of eastern Europe and central Asia.
we are eternal debts to you for peacetime. we are grateful for the bright sky .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
By the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War, about 7 thousand rear workers of the Kyzylorda region will receive one-time social assistance from the local budget in the amount of 30 aek (59,460 tenge), the Ministry of Health and Social Development reported.
Nursultan Nazarbayev focused on the state's efforts for the infrastructure development of the city.
at Uppsala University (Sweden, Uppsala), a three-day international conference "Inter-ethnic cooperation at the domestic and interstate levels" began its work.
During the meeting with state officials, opportunities for developing business cooperation and bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and North Carolina were discussed.
Projects of republican importance are being implemented in the West Kazakhstan region: financial support for the government, the industrialization map, the business roadmap 2020, and the employment program 2020.
The last visit of the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China was successful, we reached a number of important agreements. last year 's visit of premier of the state council of china li keqiang was successful , we achieved a number of important agreements .
summing up the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that "caring for veterans, improving their quality of life are one of the priorities of the state's social policy."
we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War on a large scale. we plan to celebrate the 70th anniversary of victory of the great patriotic war with much eclat .
today is a wonderful holiday - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan. today it is a great holiday - the day of unity of people of kazakhstan .
In addition, the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War is of particular importance for Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to changes in the activities of the company, which is planned to be merged with the company "Bi ji group."
The interlocutors expressed interest in developing bilateral ties and intensifying investment cooperation in trade, economic, nuclear and renewable energy, petrochemistry, and transport.
So, for projects to develop the energy of the future, world-famous astrophysicists, cosmologists, Nobel Prize laureates have been invited.
at the end of the collection, they were issued certificates "Kazakh climber."
at the meeting, issues of obtaining and withdrawing from citizenship of Kazakhstan were considered.
the new law changed the methods of development of trade union activities.	the new law changed the approaches to the further development of the trade union movement .	1,34
in this regard, the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank offers great opportunities for Kazakhstan, Russia and the entire Eurasian Economic Union.	in this regard , the establishment of the asian bank of development provides a great opportunity for kazakhstan , russia and the eurasian economic union .	1,34
The opening ceremony was attended by the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.sarinzhipov, Chairman of the Social Sphere and Social Partnership Committee of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Board of the joint-stock company "Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools."
this is the main result of the elections and the result of the kha year, "he said.
military personnel of the Almaty garrison, veterans of the Great Patriotic War, participants in local wars, representatives of public associations took part in the republican marathon-action of honor.
He was a deputy of the Supreme Council of the Kazakh SSR, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the main problematic issues of providing public services were raised, ways to solve them were discussed.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated on his re-election to the post of President of Kazakhstan, noting that these elections are evidence of stability not only for the country, but also for foreign investors.
It is worth noting that over the 21 years of implementation of the Future program, Kazakhstan received 7,737 graduates.
I take this opportunity to say that we highly appreciate the fraternal and friendly ties between Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan. taking this opportunity , i want to note that we appreciate the fraternal and friendly relations between saudi arabia and kazakhstan .
this year, the implementation of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and the second five-year plan of industrialization began.
development of new types of elite financial activities, including services in the field of private banking asset management.
According to the Ministry of Investment and Development, this year a petrochemical cluster will be launched in Atyrau region.
we discussed opportunities aimed at improving our cooperation with Croatian companies. we discussed possibilities to improve our cooperation with croatian companies .
a. Musinov informed his colleagues about the political, social, economic development of the country and international initiatives.
our journey to an alliance has lasted two decades. our path to the creation of the union took two decades .
President of the Russian company global venture alliance M. Musaev drew attention to the fact that over the years our republic has become one of the most dynamically developing countries in the world, has achieved great success in the economy and social sphere.
The jury of the competition included well-known Kazakh and foreign architects and representatives of Astana Expo-2017.
The main thing is to comply with the requirements specified in the constitution, to comply with the procedures established by the law on elections, "he said.
there were many active young people willing to participate in political decision-making. "
our plant produces the best electric locomotives in the world. our plant manufactures best locomotives in the world .
asylzhan sarybayevich mamytbekov - Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
at a meeting of the working group of standing committee of coordination of a transcaspian transport route of JSC azastan tem_r zholy, the Turkish state railroads, "the Azerbaijani railroads", the Georgian railroad "white, Baku international sea trade port", the Azerbaijani port of the Caspian Sea ""the party, the aul" Batumi seaport", took part In rehabilitation heads of the international seaport "uk", reported in ktzh.
In connection with the anniversary of the great poet, in the region with the support of the outstanding philanthropist Medgat Kulzhanov with the oratorio "abai shakarim" of the famous English composer Karl Jenkins, artists of the symphony orchestra of East Kazakhstan region, concert of the mixed choral and folklore group, world poetry day (March 21) the festival "Abai Poetry" in the languages ​ ​ of the world "will be held, in berries - republican aitys of poets, solo performances in black words, concert programs on Abai works.
Also, according to the head of the Hungarian government, cooperation on nuclear issues has been established, an agreement has been reached on the provision of engineering services.
Earlier, the Canadian engineering company Samruk-kazyna agreed on a partnership with bombardier.
food prices increased by 1.4%, paid services for the population - by 2.1%, non-food goods - decreased by 0.6%.
We are pleased to contribute together with Kazneft to the development of production of high-quality petroleum products in Kazakhstan, ensuring the country's energy security, the head of DBK stressed.
The head of Kazavtodor spoke about the construction of roads along which the "Nұrly zhol" program is being implemented.
In 2014, the farms of the region - 713.4 thousand tons of cereals (90.3% compared to 2013) 278.4 thousand tons of sunflower (90.1%), 458.5 thousand tons of potatoes (103.7%), 241.0 thousand tons of vegetables (106.3%) 75.7 thousand tons of melons (99.0%) 13.4 thousand tons of fruit and berry crops were produced (108.0%),
My Kazakhstan train on a 30-day trip will visit 29 settlements of the regions of the country and will arrive in the capital on April 22.
the transport artery will give impetus to the development of production of all countries. the transport will give impetus to the development of production in all countries .
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Recep Erdogan discussed ways to deepen ties in trade, economic, investment, industrial, transport, transit and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
According to the regional Governor's Office, this strategy was developed by the international consulting company Strategi Group Partners.
Delegations of Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan took part in the forum on comparing emerging security threats with areas of cooperation.
this will be an example for other regions, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
they are ready to carry equipment, weapons, ammunition, tents, field kitchen, food and fruits.
their presentation in Berlin, Budapest, Beijing, Dubai, Istanbul aroused great interest of the public of these countries.
For comparison, in 2013 their number amounted to 15,923 certificates.
The state program for the management of gray resources of Kazakhstan for 2014-2020, "The concept of transition to the economy, state programs for the development of education for 2011-2020, the development of health care for 2011-2015 and" Documents such as programs for the development and functioning of languages ​ ​ for 2011-2020, further modernization of the law enforcement system for 2014-2020 and the Concept of legal policy for 2010-2020, "the statement said.
At the opening ceremony of the forum, Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov, Attorney General will Holder, Minister of Justice of Great Britain and Lord Chancellor chris grayling, Secretary General of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development angel gurria spoke, the statement said.
today we visited several polling stations and watched the election, "the observer noted.
for our company, this new direction is of significant importance, that is, rail or mixed transport - railair. for the future of our company it is a new direction of development and finding a balance between mixed and rail transportation of railair .
I want to say that your initiatives, in particular the "future" program, demonstrate the correctness and vision in terms of development and support for young people.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need for further development of the republic in the transport and infrastructure plan.
the head of state set us great tasks under the program "Nұr Zhol."
the market of Kazakhstan, of course, complain about knowledge-intensive products. the market of kazakhstan is small for high-tech products .
I wish Kazakhstanis only prosperity in the new year, and Nursultan Nazarbayev a long life. on the threshold of the new year we would like to wish the kazakhstani people prosperity and long life to our president nursultan nazarbayev .
This year, 6.5 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Nұrly zhol infrastructure development program.
During the action, events aimed at strengthening inter-ethnic relations in different regions of the country were held, "said Vice President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy UK. Kamaliyev.
As part of the transformation, we are making efforts to develop three areas: ability, culture, leadership, "said Daniel Krusberg, General Director of Samruk-Kazyna JSC for Human Resources Management.
Let me commend the expansion of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
Also, the head of the region was presented with a wind farm with a capacity of 300 mgwatts and a project of electricity in the amount of 73 billion tenge.
we are like-minded to further intensify trade and economic, investment cooperation with partner states in dialogue and maintaining ties with international and regional structures, "said Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
The State Secretary of Abdykalikova noted the special importance of close cooperation in the development of the social infrastructure of Kazakhstan within the framework of the infrastructure development plan, including the active involvement of women in all infrastructure projects.
According to Akorda, on Monday the head of state signed the law "On Youth Policy."
According to the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the development of the President of Kazakhstan regarding electroecology is used in the world community.
this is the largest growth among other sectors of the economy, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Since independence, Kazakhstan had ratified more than 60 international human rights instruments. during the years of independence , kazakhstan has ratified over 60 international human rights treaties .
also in the program were performed potpourri from national songs and world-famous songs.
Ambassador A. Shokybayev, following the message of the head of state to the people "the way to a bright future," told the Minister about Kazakhstan, positive political and social reforms taking place in the country.
thirdly, according to the president, it is necessary to fight corruption, because this is the priority of all the work and activities of Kazakhstanis.
The Romanian side expressed interest in preparing for the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
As of March 1, 2015, there are 4,776 war veterans and 192,980 rear workers in Kazakhstan.
in the export structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the majority were mineral products (49.4% of the total exports of the eurozone countries), chemical products (20.0%), metals and products from them (18.9%), animal and plant products, finished food products (3.9%).
the construction of large-scale projects such as expo will allow developing domestic production, creating jobs and thus providing social protection for Kazakhstanis. "
this year, changes will be made to the tariffs for medical services, "he said.
Persons subjected to unjustified repression and rehabilitated in accordance with this law in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the rehabilitation of victims of mass political repression, from the republican budget for each month of their stay in these places at the expense of three quarters of the monthly calculated indicator, established by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, applied at the time of contacting the social protection authorities, but in the amount of 100 monthly calculation indicators established by law.
held senior positions on the virgin railroad, RGP "azastan tem_r zhola", "ktzh" uk ".
as part of Nursultan Nazarbayev's support, a practical part of Kazakhstan's development model was held. the practical part of the development of kazakhstan 's model has gone far ahead with the support of nursultan nazarbayev .
79 of them from the Ekyu/Diakb election observation mission, 39 from the CIS observer mission, 3 from the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, as well as 18 observers, 3 from the Russian Federation and two from the Republic of Azerbaijan and Ukraine.
The head of state noted that the 70th anniversary of victory is a great victory that cannot be forgotten in the history of our country. the head of state said that the 70th anniversary of the victory - a great event , we must not forget that .
According to m.balkasymova, according to the results of a comparative study on the requirements of "quality," "accessibility" and "price" in various areas, Kazakhstan lags behind 7 out of 9 industries from Brazil, Russia, China, Malaysia, Turkey.
states, fluctuations, unrest, unrest, the great contribution of the Kazakh people to world culture, "the report said.
The eternal memorial action gives us the opportunity to discover new heroes of the war, to get acquainted with their history, fate.
Holding EXPO-2017 in the capital is a victory not only for Kazakhstan, but for the whole Islamic world.
The main theme of the forum this year will be "a sustainable driver of the economic development of infrastructure."
entrepreneurship development is the core of the economic development of the capital. the development of entrepreneurship is the basis for economic development of the capital .
at hospitals No. 1, 3 of the city of Pavlodar and the Ekibastuz city hospital, stroke centers were created in order to reduce mortality and disability from acute cerebral circulation among the population, the report said.
a lot of work has been done over the years.
now in the act we plan to implement this project.
together we build cities and villages, develop roads and industry, educate the descendants of the same country, "the president said.
During the meeting, the diplomat informed his colleague about the process of political, social and economic development of Kazakhstan and familiarized with the priorities of the "new economic policy of Kazakhstan" in the Address of the Head of State to the people "Bright Path - the Beginning of the Future."
we will follow the path of improving the preschool program. we will go towards improving the modernization program is pre-primary education .
this is a unanimous decision, "he said.
2 billion tenge to support small and medium-sized businesses, another 3 billion tenge to create production infrastructure.
At the same time, you should not appreciate the work of women, I am grateful to each of you, "said the head of state.
The program was attended by investors of all regions of the country and the city of the capital - economic entities.
I am confident that our states will continue joint work and cooperation in order to expand political and economic ties for the benefit of the peoples of the two republics, the telegram says.
Kyrgyz ethnocultural association of Kazakhstan together with all the people of the country celebrate the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan. the kyrgyz ethno-cultural association of kazakhstan together with all the people of the country celebrates the day of unity of people of kazakhstan .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the necessary conditions have been created in the region to improve the well-being of the population. the president of kazakhstan noted the establishment of the necessary conditions for the welfare of the population .
The message of the head of state "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state" is designed to attribute corruption to a threat to national security and combine the efforts of the state and society in the fight against this negative phenomenon.
the agenda also includes: "on contrailer transportation, on audit activities," "on internal audit in public sector organizations," "volunteerism" "such important model laws as" on volunteering, "a new text of the model law" on tourism activities, "proposals to improve the legislation of CIS member states in the field of combating technological terrorism.
Mangistau region will become a transport hub in southwestern Kazakhstan, "the report said.
interregional migrants account for 40.4% (43.7%) of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
these facilities are very small for road users, including for transit and bus services, "said the chairman of the board.
4348 people will take part in the ZhKZ 2020 program, 362 people - in the project "Rise."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that another priority is the implementation of the state program "Nұrly zhol," which considers the development of the country's transport infrastructure and increasing the role of Kazakhstan as a transit bridge between Europe and Asia.
veterans of war and labor were awarded flowers and gifts.
a special order of the head of state is adopted, every year all the necessary conditions for war veterans are created. it was a special order of the head of state and annually veterans all the necessary conditions are created for veterans .
In this center, citizens of China, Kuwait, India, Russia were treated.
As a result of these projects, one and a half thousand jobs will be created, "he said.
we can use the existing budget effectively. we can effectively use the budget that we have now .
Every day, 100 thousand people visit the portal, "said the chairman of the board.
Kazagro JSC, as part of the Kazagromarketing national holding, is the operator of the investment subsidy program and accepts applications from investors for participation in the program.
all this prompted me to take part in this competition, "he said.
The forum will be attended by young scientists, students, entrepreneurs, economists, innovators, diplomats, politicians and financiers.
Kazakhstan is a member of the board.
In July and August of this year, chickens will be brought in for the third stage.
We ask you to nominate your candidacy for the post of head of state, "the letter says.
according to the artist, these are three symbolic images of the west, east and Kazakhstan.
football, tennis, basketball and more.
here the head of the Kazakh sports committee held bilateral negotiations with the head of the kafak (Korean analogue of the aoska).
These Kurezhsky medical and rescue centers were built as part of the execution of the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the Healthy Kazakhstan program.
A workshop was also held, which was attended by representatives of the presidential administration, Minister of Education and Science A. Sarinzhipov, Vice Minister of National Economy M. Babylkasimov.
The route reportedly included such stations as diamonds, saryozek, ushtobe, bayagoz, rides, families, axu, ekibastuz, temirtau, zhanaarka, zhezkazgan, and the capital.
I wanted to open an exhibition in my homeland - in Kazakhstan.
project cost $85.5 million.
the Prime Minister will head the commission.
Gasification is also actively carried out in the region, cooperation has been established with such large financial institutions as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ekdb), the Asian Development Bank (adb), the Islamic Development Bank (ib).
According to the Development Fund, during the presentation, an employee of the Baiterek holding explained the mechanism and procedure for implementing the program.
I am sure that Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 and the program of political, economic and legal reforms announced by you, assuming a range, will lead the country to new successes and open new ways of cooperation with the EU through an expanded partnership and cooperation agreement.	i am convinced that the strategy  kazakhstan-2050 " and the program of political , economic and legal reforms will lead your country to further success and open new ways for cooperation with the eu , in particular through the agreement on partnership and cooperation .
we consider ourselves ready for major projects. we think that we are ready for more serious projects .
The year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a common holiday for all of us. the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan is our common holiday .
This bill is aimed at equalizing the opportunities for persons with disabilities to exercise civil, political, social, economic, cultural and other rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other international agreements, of which Kazakhstan is a member, the report said.
The progress in all sectors of the economy: in industry, transport, trade and other areas is needed to increase in the future, "akhmetzhan yessimov said.
there were 30-35 such projects at the initial selection.
The participants exchanged fruitful views on strengthening the cooperation of international and regional organizations and increasing their efforts in ensuring security in Central Asia amid the worsening situation in Afghanistan.
the theme changes every year, only the base does not change. every year the theme is changed , only the base isn 't changed .
It should be noted that the forum was attended by more than 400 stependiants of the presidential program "Future," laureates of the youth awards "Daryn," "Young Tulpar" and winners of international Olympiads.
The project can become an important part of the transport and logistics system not only for the region, but also for the Eurasian continent, "said the head of the KTZ.
as part of the implementation of the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol," among the priority areas are industry, oil and gas equipment and the transport and transit industry.
One of them, g-global, is a virtual platform for discussions and debates, "he said.
this is Petropavlovsk, Kapshagai, Maybals, Kamyshlabash, Kyzylorda and diamonds, that is, 5 out of 7, "said Erlan Nysanbayev at a briefing in the CCS.
During a visit to the private kindergarten "Shugyla-2," the Deputy Prime Minister met with the leaders of the social sphere of the region.
not to hide, we are mainly engaged in small business by women, "he said.
A special purpose policy is being implemented to address social issues. a targeted social policy is developed in the country in order to solve social issues .
According to V. Skurenko, after the end of the war with Germany, military schools and schools were reduced.
the construction of new schools, the elimination of emergency and three-shift schools is a very important and responsible work. the construction of new schools instead of emergency and three-shift is a very responsible and important work .
We must think about the construction of a new international airport from the Almaty region, "the president said.
we opened the boundaries of the labor market. we have opened the borders to the labor markets .
we have once made changes to the budget, and if necessary, this needs to be done again. we have already made one change to the budget , if it 's necessary , we will do it again .
the history of our victories is an example of real patriotism and unity, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said during a military parade.
According to the ministry, the action will be held in all regional centers of the capital and Almaty.
transportation of blue fuel to whitewash is reportedly carried out through gas pipelines "middle Asia - center," "vision," "okarem-beineu."
representatives of the national company got acquainted with the preparation and holding of the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017," providing information on the opportunities and conditions for its participation, "the statement said.
Note that the international competition of young pianists "astana piano passion" has been held over the past three years.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also met with construction workers and subway workers.
In September this year, we will go to Singapore, where a business meeting will take place, "said R. Mukhtarov.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
The competition is held on the basis of the social network "sailau2015.el.kz" as part of the special platform "el.kz."
the forum hosts a scientific and practical conference "Environmental Tourism: History, Modern, Innovations."
Tokayev drew the diplomat's attention to the new economic program "Nұrly zhol" and the content of five institutional reforms announced by the head of state.
In July-December 2014, support was provided in the following areas: the introduction of accounting and tax accounting, as well as the creation of unified statistical reporting, the provision of legal services, assistance in customs procedures, support of information technologies, the provision of services related to public procurement, the acquisition of national companies and subsoil users, services of the marketing industry, full support and advice on the implementation of the management system.
ultimately, this is a step forward for the state apparatus, "said the head of state.
the development of single-industry towns. "
This year, manufacturers of Karaganda region products will be able to take part in the events of the national agency in such states as Tajikistan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Iran, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Armenia, Russia and Mongolia.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan is creating all the necessary conditions for the development and popularization of cycling.
fellows of the international scholarship of the future congratulate you on your official assumption of the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan!
The council included young entrepreneurs, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Damu Enterprise Development Fund, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of the garden.
the meeting was attended by the first vice-minister of health and social development s.k. Ayyrbekova, the representative of the DDU in the Republic of Kazakhstan melita vuynovich and the president of the republican medical chamber m.kuulzhanov.
It is worth noting that the head of state has developed the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" and the policy "nұrly zhol," optimizing the process of training personnel under the program "future."
During the meeting with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Production of the Republic of TR, Minister of Trade and Economic Development N. Hekmatulloz discussed Tajikistan's participation in the exhibition in the capital.
According to him, the activities of the association "noble child" are aimed at social and educational assistance.
We hope that we will achieve new fans who will be interested in coming to Kazakhstan and including our theater, "said the artistic director of the Astana Opera ballet, Tursynbek Nurkaliyev.
Senators "On ratification of the Protocol Amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on International Road Transport of January 19, 2004"; " on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, prevention and liquidation of emergency situations ";" on ratification of the Agreement on the protection of secret information within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States ";" on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the audit of an international maritime organization "(first reading); "on the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan"; "on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issues of the National Guard, the armed forces and the state guard service of the republic"(first reading); "on amendments and additions to the Code of Administrative Offences of the Republic of Kazakhstan" (first reading).
The head of state on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on his own behalf congratulated.
we must address these gaps. we need to fix these problems .
During the meeting, issues of cooperation of the institute with large companies in Kazakhstan were discussed.
The Czech leader also expressed his readiness to take part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
joint cooperation in the future will strengthen the ties of our countries and give a new impetus to the development of the Eurasian Union, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Including trading enterprises sold consumer goods in the amount of 162.5 billion tenge, individual entrepreneurs with trading facilities - 306.9 billion tenge and trading in the markets - 94.4 billion tenge, reports East Kazakhstan region.
the growth of the Kazakh economy has doubled, we are one of the countries of the world with a developed economy.
In addition, the company will finance the construction of social facilities in the region for two years in the amount of 1.6 billion tenge.
According to the Governor's Office, in September last year the project was included in the industrialization map.
On behalf of the government and people of the country, the Vietnamese Prime Minister congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the confidence shown by the Kazakh people in the presidential elections.
on the draft laws "On Peacekeeping Activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Peacekeeping Activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Dossayev added that this year 600 km of overhead transmission lines with a total length of 200 km of "ekibastuz - families - growth" will be built to develop energy infrastructure.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the exhibition "All nomads" is dedicated to identifying national analogues, creative, ethical, political, cultural positions of countries.
Last year, construction began on another 3 revolutions and interchanges, which will be completed this year.
This year, 7 billion 981 million tenge was allocated for the construction of housing in the region at the expense of the state, 19,425 square meters. meters of housing.
in the industry structure, the highest wages are set in mining and quarrying - 341.4 thousand tenge (2.2 times the average republican level), in financial and insurance activities - 329.1 thousand tenge (2.1 times), in professional, scientific and technical activities - 308.3 thousand tenge (more than 2 times).
It was attended by about 400 representatives of business, government agencies and national companies from both sides, the Ministry of Investment and Development said.
The main topic of the meeting was the meeting of President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev's initiative - bilateral cooperation in the framework of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions on the development of interreligious and interfaith dialogue in the world.
Within two days, more than 60 children from all regions of Kazakhstan, the capital, cities of Almaty experienced theoretical and practical knowledge.
of these, 13,637 residential facilities worth 96.4 billion tenge, 7,752 non-residential facilities worth 33.7 billion tenge, including 1,630 commercial facilities worth 20.5 billion tenge, 13 interests of legal entities worth 0.7 billion tenge, securities worth 0.8 billion tenge.
A. Marinos praised the initiatives of the head of Kazakhstan at the international level, in particular, praised the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions and the development process of a multinational, multinational society, the report said.
Kazakhstan has shown good results in terms of education: the literacy rate of youth (33 places), primary school enrolment (15), the share of the population in school education (10), the share of immigrants from school (6). kazakhstan has demonstrated good results in terms of education : the literacy among young people ( 33rd place ) , primary school coverage ( 15th ) , the amount of people with school education ( 10th ) , and the percentage of drop-outs from school ( 6th ) .
The program works through "one window."
in the field of tourism, agriculture, construction, transport and transit relations, the existing but not fully realized possibilities of bilateral economic ties, a significant increase in foreign trade between Kazakhstan and Romania were noted, the Foreign Ministry said.
During the meeting, the issues of women's active participation in the implementation of the national plan were discussed - 100 concrete steps, the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the new economic policy "Nұr the way to the future," the gender equality strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2006-2016 and the development of family and demographic policy.
thus, of the allocated 50 billion tenge, 3% of the funds were actually used.
In addition, innovative projects of the national nuclear center, Nuclear Technology Park JSC, Altai Geological and Environmental Institute, Kazakh-American Free University, Eco-Fuel LLP, n.nazarbayev age intellectual school were presented.
I want to congratulate the Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan on the good organization of the work of precinct commissions and observers. i want to congratulate the central election commission of kazakhstan , that managed with organization of the work of election commissions and international observers .
The portal of www.egov.kz services is available in the category "citizens" - the section "social security" - "pension support."
a. x. Kusainov was awarded the Order of the Great Patriotic War II degree, the Order of 1941-1945. for a twenty-year victory in the Great Patriotic War "and" 1941-1945 for a thirty-year victory in the Great Patriotic War. "
these are the results of the work of the political council, the central control and audit commission for 2011-2014, as well as the organization of the work of the bodies of the XVI Party Congress.
The main purpose of the visit is to promote Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, as well as to discuss issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the countries.
The head of the region, Karim Kokrekbayev, the first deputy general director of Kaztransgazaimak JSC, the Idos scientist and the director of Astana-trans-oil LLP signed a tripartite memorandum on the construction of the Asankul natural gas liquefaction plant, "the statement said.
this year the construction of the road will consist of Kazakhstani material. this year we will use domestic bitumen to construct the roads .
I am sure that next year we will celebrate your 100th anniversary, "said the head of the region.
According to the head of the department, in order to exclude unreasonable expenses of citizens when communicating with state bodies, inspection of personal vehicles not used for commercial purposes for up to 7 years was canceled, notarized copies of documents were mandatory, and power of attorney was not required when driving.
verity ".
Recall that from May 21 to 22, the Astana Economic Forum will be held in the capital.
The company is interested in actively participating in the Nұrly Zhol program.
The company of polymer strata was opened last year as part of the regional industrialization map.
In turn, S. Smitz noted that the exhibition "Energy of the Future" "Expo-2017" is of particular interest to the Netherlands, so Dutch companies are ready to provide comprehensive support to Kazakhstan projects in 2017.
The Eurasian Economic Union is an important project for the whole of our country, N.Nazarbayev said.
this visit will be a dynamic of bilateral relations, "K. Makimov said.
According to A. Smailov, this project will appear in March this year.
we will offer our ideas and support them, "said the director of ast invest company adilkhan zhurbaev LLP.
I think that interaction with President Nursultan Nazarbayev during the meeting of Prime Minister Viktor Orban and following the results of intergovernmental meetings was done at a very high level.
The results of the sturgeon 2015 action were announced in June.
Tugzhanov reported to the head of state on the preparations for the upcoming XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the topic: "Eternal country: one country - one destiny."
Work on the construction of the facility will be carried out in the second half of this year.
the Kazakh delegation held meetings with the Chairman of the National Emergency Department of Pakistan Ashgar Nawaz and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan (special secretary) amjad hussain bial.
- a workshop for the production of cubic jackal of various fractions with a capacity of 720 thousand tons per year (kko ltd LLP);
Also, according to the Vice Minister, 42.9% of the foreign labor force are specialists, 28.2% are skilled workers, 20.6% are heads of structural divisions, 6.5% are first chiefs and deputies, and only 1.7% are seasonal foreign workers.
in our opinion, in strengthening the principles of peace, security and mutual cooperation, the world community, like other religions, has a huge potential for Islam, "said K. Tokayev.
among them - Islam, Pavlovism, Protestantism.
successful implementation of the industrial and innovative development program.
thanks to state support under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" bank loans for 953.7 million tenge will be additionally subsidized.
Today in the capital there are many important industrial and innovative projects. today 's a number of important industrial and innovative projects operates in the capital .
Kindergarten No. 132 is ready to accept children from 3 to 7 years old.
119.4 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Green Country program.
on the political and economic achievements taking place in Kazakhstan and other international initiatives.
they emphasized the need to enhance trade and investment cooperation, taking into account the potential of the two countries.
During the meeting with the leadership of the Foreign Ministry, the parties touched upon topical international issues, and also talked about bilateral strategic partnership.
the development of transport infrastructure, the creation of public-private partnership centers in the regions, the construction of the Western Europe-Western China international transport corridor, etc.
It is planned that the congress will be attended by more than 1200 leaders of party deputy factions in all regions of the country, including regional maslikhats, more than 200 chairmen of primary party organizations, including representatives of remote villages, as well as more than 100 delegates with party veterans and activists.
military personnel of Kazakhstan, Georgia, Afghanistan and Tunisian countries were trained.
he wrote that "I am a citizen of another state," that is, I did not understand the meaning of the proposal in the questionnaire.
these are hotels, holiday homes, private large facilities, sanatorium and resort facilities, "he concluded.
"on the state program to support industrial and innovative development," "eea" and "on energy efficiency and energy conservation."
Six veterans of the Great Patriotic War from the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, Pavlodar, as well as Almaty and South Kazakhstan regions will visit the Russian Federation.
At the end of the meeting, Abdykalikova gave a number of specific instructions for the further implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the state program of infrastructure development "Nұr zhol," scholarships "future" as part of the implementation of 5 institutional reforms proposed by the head of state at the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan party.
By the pace of economic development, a number of industrial industries, agriculture, education, health care and other factors, we can say that we are among these countries, "the head of state said.
At the same time, the executive director of the Shell concern recalled that during the visit of the head of state to the Netherlands to participate in the nuclear security summit last year, he was presented with a new variety of cheese called "President of Nazarbayev."
we unanimously support you and call on all civil and patriotic forces of the country to advocate the holding of presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the letter says.
We will continue to study and consider, "he said."
unfortunately, today most graduates, even those who have received a degree, do not seek science, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As part of the new economic policy, dozens of new enterprises will appear in Kazakhstan.
Bakytzhan sagintayev noted that Estonia is an important political and economic partner for Kazakhstan in the Baltic region.
To do this, it is necessary to open sections in all retail chains where only Kazakhstani goods are sold, "the head of state said.
During the discussion, new types of work were presented.
we are very grateful to our people, "said Dmitry Moskaltsov.
Radiation Sewing and Textile Factory LLP,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Yerzhan khozeuli kazykhanov combines the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Ireland, the Republic of Iceland;
On May 25-27, talks of Syrian opposition groups took place in the capital.
According to the Secretary of State, today the women of Kazakhstan are part of the unshakable support of the country's economy, the driving force.
13,279,940 the evacuees were taken home, "he 11.
In 2014, such events as participation in the training of the collective operational response forces "Interaction-2014" as part of the armed forces of Kazakhstan and the governing bodies of the participating states of the exercises, preparation and holding of a military parade in the capital in honor of Defender of the Fatherland Day took an important place in the activities of the department.
During the meeting the heads of central executive bodies, JSC "Baiterek" ubh, "akimats of regions, cities of Astana and Almaty reported on the work carried out in this direction.
Today, a new stage has come in the history of Kazakhstan.
my Kazakhstan train in 30 days visited 29 small and rural settlements.
The Secretary of State got acquainted with the administration process of the international scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Bolashak," competitive selection of applicants, monitoring of training and mechanisms for further employment of graduates of programs.
The Heads of Government will identify priority areas of cooperation of the CIS member States in the field of forestry and forestry industry until 2025, discuss the concept of interregional and transboundary cooperation until 2020 and publish the results of the document and audit work carried out in 2014 on the financial and economic activities of the CIS bodies financed from the CIS unified budget.
sidewalks and autopavillons are provided here, a total of 198.274 million tenge was allocated for improvement, "the Governor's Office reported.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished health workers success and well-being.
young scientists defended their works in such categories as "mathematical models of specific processes in society and nature," geometric miniatures, "" mathematics and art, mathematical science, "" electronic thematic journal "," "the use of mathematical approaches to solve problems of a professional goal."
It is reported that in December last year all construction and installation work was completed.
It is necessary to teach children three languages, "the head of state added.
in manufacturing, output increased by 9.3%, "the report said.
From January 1, Kazakhstan joins the Eurasian Economic Union.	on january 1 , 2015 kazakhstan will be a member of the eurasian economic union .	1,37
poultry farm capital projects ltd "prepares 6 thousand heads of poultry meat per hour and 1000 kg of sausage per shift.
This project is being implemented jointly with the Ministry of Investment and Development.
the Kazakhstani athlete alexay poltoran finished first with a score of 22:51, 8, the second was Russian Yevgeny Belov (+ 0.5), the third finished Norwegian Martin Sundby (+ 4.2).
in the nomination "the best project for the school" and the project "sports playground."
The electoral legislation of Kazakhstan provides for the institution of international control over elections. kazakhstan 's election legislation provides institute for international election observation .
Your dedicated activity is aimed at the development and prosperity of the state. your tireless work is aimed at the development and prosperity of the state .
The intelligentsia plays a big role in strengthening such national values, "the President said.
in the context of the implementation of the new road economic policy, as well as the Expo-2017 exhibition, the high potential of Kazakh-Thai cooperation in the fields of green energy, transport, logistics, agriculture and tourism was noted.
This year, the agenda of the forum is devoted to infrastructure upgrades. this year , the forum is dedicated to the issues of infrastructure modernization .
priority industries in which investments are invested - transport and warehousing (43.9% of the total investment in the region), agriculture, forestry and fisheries (24.6%), industry (18.3%), real estate operations (5.6), education (2.2).
we adopted this program in advance, because it will be the basis for economic growth in difficult conditions, "the head of state said.
The forum is organized by the Russian state company Avtodor and the National Association of Investors and Operators of the Road Industry, the press service of Kazavtodor reports.
On May 1, the universal exhibition expo -2015 in Milan started. on may 1 , the exhibition " expo - 2015 " was launched in milan .
in this regard, we need to provide a product not only for ourselves, but also for neighboring countries, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan and Poland face similar political issues, and we have these issues that we must solve together through the development of economic policy, "said Christopher Hartwell, chairman of the board of case.
we are entering the world's leading universities.
Today, the Governor of the region met with the founder of the aitasgroup company, the general director of the "poultry farm with a plant."
I just gave my voice. i have just voted .
The budget of the region for 2013-2014 has additionally increased by 44 billion tenge.
project cost - 3.1 billion tenge.
in the area of ​ ​ 2 medical outpatient clinics for a total of 250 million tenge. two outpatient clinics for a total amount of 250 million tenge were built in the district .
Thus, last year Kazakhstan successfully defended four reports to the Human Rights Council on three conventions (racial discrimination, women, torture) and the universal periodic review, "the statement said.
This year, we hope that the number of projects will increase by one and a half times - twice and end the year with new projects implemented in the regions, "assured the head of the Development Entrepreneurship Development Fund.
this is a special case when the state refers to us, "he said.
The "Nұrly zhol" program this year will become the main "core" of the implementation of the counter-cyclical economic policy of the government.
student youth from Astana, Akmola, Kostanay, Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions took part in the rally.
He also suggested considering the possibility of using the terminals of the Constance Seaport of Kazakhstan (cargo, oil and grain), "the report said.
the number of Aktobe festival participants is growing annually, last year - 116, this year - 146.
altynkol-mound turns into the border gate of central Asia.
The parties noted the existence of economic, tourist and transit potential for expanding cooperation between Kazakhstan and Latvia.
Recall that since 2009, in connection with the introduction of a single national health system within the framework of the State program "Healthy Kazakhstan," a multi-level system of continuous management of the quality of medical services has been developed, which includes: the system of internal control of medical organizations, the institute of independent expertise in the field of health care, accreditation of medical organizations and state control in the field of provision of medical services.
we declared ourselves a legal state in the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan. we declared ourselves as a state of law in the constitution of kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan has become the main partner of the European Union in the region. kazakhstan has become a major partner of the european union in the region .
gong jianwei informed about plans for the further development of the anshka and the possibility of its transformation into an Asian security and development organization.
The project cost amounted to 5.6 billion tenge.
The Nұrly Zhol program is an anti-crisis measure.
natural population growth increased by 4.1% (2014-17.29; 2013. - 16.60), republican indicator - 15.68.
of these, 25 from the CIS observer mission, 5 from the electoral observation mission, 4 from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, as well as three observers from the People's Republic of China, 2 from the Republic of Moldova and one each from the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Belgium.
it is aimed not only at infrastructure, but also at developing the capabilities of a new industry and business, "said the president of the institute.
Nurtay Abykayev appointed Chairman of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Over 20 years, an unpopular subject of international content has formed in our country, "he said.
I said that we will work as the largest international operator of the air capital and create a second company for internal work.
In conclusion, Dmitry Medvedev wished the President of Kazakhstan good health, well-being and success in public service.
this is not easy, this is an important and relevant issue.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the improvement of the social condition of Almaty region.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to further develop the country's military-industrial complex and military-technical integration, to constantly improve the professional training of military personnel, the report said.
According to the department, the data processing center (dno) is a regional-level infrastructure platform for the "electronic government" of the Republic of Kazakhstan, all its engineering life support systems are stored in the reserve fund.
our citizens often travel to Russia. our citizens often travel to russia .
The values specified in strategy Kazakhstan-2050, the doctrine of Nr Otan party and the program "Nrla zhol" are the cornerstone of the document.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the development of trade and economic ties, the development of business cooperation between the two countries, the report said.
this is especially memorable in the capital, "S. Tarpishchev said during the briefing.
the number of museums, libraries and cultural objects in our country is growing annually and meets all international standards, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
athletes gain experience at international competitions, "Smirnov said.
a. Isagaliyev President of Kazakhstan A.D. Within the framework of the new economic policy announced by Nazarbayev, "nұrly Zhol" noted the great potential for intensifying bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the field of economy and investment.
in fact, we are doing a difficult job of systematizing all processes. in fact , we carry out the serious work on the optimization of all processes related to the customer service .
At the end, the President of Turkey wished Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, happiness, success, and well-being to the people of Kazakhstan
The head of state devoted 5 reforms and 100 steps to industrialization and new economic growth. the head of state dedicated a very big blog to industrialization , new economic growth .
"This is an important event that reflects our unity and well-being," said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is a new package of water that I built for three years.
it included qualified top managers, "said Venus mustafina.
residents of Kazakhstan voted for peace, harmony and unity. the people of kazakhstan voted for peace , harmony , and unity .
In 2014, 157,675 furniture worth 33 million tenge was produced here.
this is very relevant, given the situation in the global economy, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, roads and airports will be built.
"We use this meeting in Moscow to discuss these issues and meet with the President of Russia and a number of other officials, to discuss bilateral relations," the head of state concluded.
we are the author of the first Kazakh epaulettes. we are the authors of the first kazakh shoulder straps .
Germany is the main trading partner of Kazakhstan. germany is the largest trading partner of kazakhstan .
At the end of the conference, a solemn ceremony will be held to award leading scientists and scientists with the signs "For Merit in the Development of Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan," "Honorary Worker of the Education Sector of the Republic of Kazakhstan," as well as an honorary diploma of the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we must comprehensively implement social infrastructure, transport infrastructure and access to public services. we say that the availability of social infrastructure , transport infrastructure , availability of public services should be addressed together .
In addition, during the consultations, topical issues of the international and regional agenda were considered, as well as issues of interaction within the framework of international organizations such as para, anshk and shu.
attracting foreign direct investment in general will bring Kazakhstan to a new international level.
The French president expressed interest in further developing cooperation with Kazakhstan for the benefit of the two countries.
our country is vast, so we must deal with landscaping and ecology, "said B. Saparbayev.
As a special ambassador of the President of Kazakhstan to nominate Kazakhstan for non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council for 2017-2018, the Speaker of the Majilis will meet with the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
It is worth noting that this year 3 billion tenge was allocated from the state treasury for the construction of 8 cultural facilities in the region.
The first trading platform in the universal store began to be mastered by local manufacturers of ice, dairy and honey wool.
The president of the Korean company kc cottrell said that it was their companies that have been engaged in gas purification for 40 years, including inviting Kazakhstanis to use their services.
during the repair, the roof of the apartment was repaired, doors, windows, wallpaper, linoleum were replaced.
During the meeting, views were exchanged in the field of monetary policy, banking, development of small and medium-sized businesses.
because our state, government, parliament, the media must educate the person of work.
this is a guarantee of transparency of the poison, "said Vladyka Sokor.
The national company Astana Expo-2017 intends to regularly hold such sports competitions among youth teams of the city.
I witnessed how Kazakhstan makes a significant contribution to the cultural and humanitarian heritage of mankind, "he said.
the new outpatient clinic is equipped with modern technologies. the new clinic is equipped with modern facilities .
our people may not worry, "the head of state added.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of the state programs "Nұrly zhol" and "Affordable housing-2020," as well as the implementation of joint projects in the field of green energy in connection with the upcoming specialized international exhibition "expo-2017," the Foreign Ministry said.
the fifth reform was a transparent and accountable State. the fifth reform - transparent and accountable government .
we have established the independence of our country with desire, unity. together we have made our country famous throughout the world .
unfortunately, the number of our veterans is growing every year.
33 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of infrastructure in the field of education at the expense of the national fund in 2015, 33 billion tenge in 2016, the vice minister said.
first of all, the program became available to rural entrepreneurs. the program has become more accessible , especially for rural business .
All tasks have been completed, "the report said.
we are pleased to be able to meet with a war veteran. we are happy that we have had the honor to meet with the participant of this war .
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has become a globally recognized state.	since independence , kazakhstan has formed as a well known state in the world .	1,39
on ratification of the Agreement between the senators of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic on confidence-building measures in the border area at the next meeting of the upper house on May 28 ";" on ratification of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the activities of border representatives ";" on peacekeeping activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan ";" on additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on peacekeeping activities "(first reading) and "On amendments and additions to certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of water supply and sanitation, lending and subsidizing housing and communal services" (second reading).
at the expense of these funds, we intend to provide comprehensive support to veterans on the basis of a set of measures, "he said.
As of November 1, 2014, the population of the city of Astana amounted to 847,730 people, including 378,624 in the Almaty region, 124,970 in the Yesilsky district, 344,136 in the saryark region.
As part of the briefing, the president of the nexos association presented the california film Awards statuette to the Ambassador of Kazakhstan enrique gaspar.
According to him, the single program has become large in volume, in terms of terms fast and accessible to entrepreneurs.
we must provide maximum social assistance to persons with disabilities. we must strengthen the special social services for invalids , " the deputy minister said .
we saw the activity of citizens of Kazakhstan in the elections.
we plan to visit the polling stations of the capital, "said D. Mezentsev.
The deal amounted to 6.82 billion tenge, exceeding 8.94 billion tenge, "the report said.
When searching for gas-electric welders, the "mega-building reserve" - commodity scientists, managers and administrators, the enterprise of the "power system" turned to drivers, craftsmen, electricians, engineers.
using all potential will allow our state to increase the economy and create jobs, "he said.
We use our own funds to implement projects under the Nұrly Zhol program.
gradation of contributions in the proposed additional internal categories reduced the size of the contribution of the average business by 50% (from 80 months or 158,560 tenge), and for large business entities it is expected to decrease by 89% (from 505 months or 1,000,910 tenge), the press service said.
Within two years, developing scientific works, the canvases will be presented at the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
The theme of the national pavilion with an area of ​ ​ 3000 square meters is called "Kazakhstan is a country of opportunity."
During the negotiations, issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Caribbean countries within the framework of international organizations, including within the framework of couples, organizations of American states and other organizations, were considered.
our veterans are completely exempt from utility bills.
During the meeting, priority areas of cooperation in the legal sphere were discussed, in particular, issues of combating crime, terrorism, extremism, cybercrime, drug trafficking, exchange of experience and information.
this will allow Krepel-Plast LLP to participate in large construction projects financed by the state, along with others.
Recall that the lrt project in the capital is being implemented on behalf of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we are pleased with the active work of Kazakh senators in Omsk. we are grateful to kazakh senator for active work in omsk . , " - chairman of the federation council noted .
Zenchenko and General Director of the company's command partnership G. Zenchenko noted that our country, under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, has achieved great success and today the whole world recognizes and respects Kazakhstan as a powerful and prosperous state.
the first is Karaganda.
The exhibition was attended by representatives of national and regional travel companies, prestigious hotels, air agencies and the press.
The implementation of 5 institutional reforms opens up new opportunities for our country.
this is the first sabbatical this year.
neuropotologist, therapist, surgeon, cardiologist, gynecologist, flurography, endoscopy, lore, pediatrician, oculist, dentist, uzi doctors and biochemical, clinical laboratory worked on the medical train.
first of all, it was approved by the central council of the organization of veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "Kaletaev said.
We will hold round tables, materials on this topic, take delegations abroad, "the minister said.
in the absence of this path, the barriers that we had in the field of trade were eliminated, "the minister said.
Today we noticed that the awards given to us are respect and desire of young people for war veterans, "said the veteran of the Great Patriotic War fatima Yakusheva.
At the same time, the Chairman of the meeting noted that many countries are interested in creating a free trade zone with this union, including India, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey, Israel and the countries of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, Liechtenstein).
state visit of the president a. Atambayev and a number of decisions following the 4th meeting of the supreme interstate council of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, including "on the plan of measures for cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic," on the development of economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic in the conditions of Eurasian integration, "Recall that decisions have been made" on cooperation in the field of energy. "
During the forum, two panel sessions will be held on the topic: "Formation of a sustainable infrastructure of the Eurasian space," "Economic climate of the countries of Eurasia: dialogue of young business leaders."
Kazakhstan had also made efforts to address that problem. kazakhstan has also made efforts to resolve this issue .
During the meeting with the head of the international renewable energy agency, representatives of the national company discussed issues of cooperation in the development of the topic "energy of the future" and the possibility of participating in EXPO-2017.
in addition, the energy efficiency of the economy decreased by 18.6%.
fish are caught in this village, cleaned and frozen.
the newly elected head of state will take the oath to the people of Kazakhstan.
Two years later, the winter universiade will be held in Kazakhstan. not for nothing in two years kazakhstan will host the winter universiade .
At the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres.
This year, the head of state instructed to pay attention to "providing social assistance for actualization, improving their quality."
Member of the Business Council of the capital youth and President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that our country will overcome all the difficulties and reach new heights.
On this basis, Kazakhstan announced its candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
When it did not grow, a new cultural center appeared, where residents come to see art, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
I am honored to be here today, and I hope that this visit will be productive, "added Z. Milanovich.
Since October 1, 2014, residents of Astana, Almaty, Aktobe, Aktau, Aulau, thickets, Karaganda, Shymkent have been using the services of the "universal number."
Preparations for the parade are held at a high level, this year the parade is distinguished by a reflection of the historical and modern period, as well as war veterans.
The year of the assembly should be a year of concrete affairs, "said N.Nurken.
During the meeting, significant assistance of Kazakhstan to the fund and the activity of state bodies of Kazakhstan in the implementation of the country program of cooperation with undaf and unisef for 2010-2015 was noted.
According to him, recently, at the initiative of the president, many state programs have been adopted.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this meeting is a respect for veterans and home front workers.
It is an international standards-based unit designed to fulfil obligations for the maintenance of international peace and security.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
This year, it is planned to conduct an examination of the economic cost of energy-intensive housing construction in Kazakhstan as part of the project "Energy-efficient design and construction of facilities."
Germany's Federal Foreign Minister stressed that Kazakhstan is a "lever of stability" in central Asia.
I am sure that your activities as prime minister will contribute to the prosperity of your country and the further development of strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Great Britain, "the telegram says.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, the national commission will be assisted by an international advisory council consisting of Kazakh and foreign experts.
the active participation of women in infrastructure projects. "
We visited 5 polling stations that we chose by chance, they really showed how the elections are held in the capital, "the observer said.
the vast majority of people wishing to take part in the 2020 program are 6 thousand 409 people from South Kazakhstan region, about 1 thousand people from Almaty region and 377 citizens from the capital.
The best company in the CIS.
in many countries, economic reforms are being implemented with the support of this bank, "he said.
Compared to 2013, the number of licenses and permits issued in electronic form increased 16 times (2013 - 127 license).
we live in a multi-ethnic, irreconcilable country, we are concerned, it is pleasing.
First Deputy Prime Minister b.sagintayev, Ministers of Finance, Investment and Development answered the questions of senators of a.kuzek, v.bobrov, b.lamanov, s.b. on improving budget planning, closing external debt, as well as the development of transport infrastructure, housing relations.
Following the results of the white business forum "kaznex invest," the Republic of Kazakhstan concluded memoranda with the companies "dok- eng" and "pastor-grupp" in the field of mechanical engineering, shipbuilding with the company "ulnik," food production "tweaking."
measures have been taken to suppress offenses, "he said.
our scientists have enough international ties.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan spoke about the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan aimed at ensuring the stability and development of the country.
The first of the proposed facilities is the vista international wind farm.
this is a simple sky, "clouds in blue" "echal or from Berlin," "ex dorogi," "soldier's Polish," aliyah, "" Peace will be preserved, "peaceful solar support" and the song "chapel" dedicated to the hero of the Soviet Union, army general.
As part of the execution of the order of the Head of State this year, our region was one of the first in the republic to export meat products.
today's joy is the result of work.
In December, we reduced the prices of ai-92 and diesel fuel twice.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh delegation informed about the work and plans to prepare for EXPO-2017.
The President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the work of the plant, and also talked with members of the labor collective.
The National Bank's gold and foreign exchange assets amounted to 29.1 billion US dollars and increased by 9.8% compared to last year, "the Minister said.
we intend to continue the development process, "said the Minister of Energy Vladimir schoolboy.
For this, the Astana Expo-2017 information stand was installed on the square of the capital, where the main events will be held.
One of the successful achievements in this direction was the signing in New York of a protocol to the Treaty on the creation of a nuclear weapons zone in Central Asia, "the head of state said.
The meeting also discussed prospects for the development of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres.
we are glad to him.
new leaders.
The expert community assessed these elections as a new impetus for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the new Nұrly zhol economic policy.
as part of the implementation of the regional development program until 2020, the Senate amended the editorial and refinement nature in terms of reducing the property tax rate in relation to rented housing to individuals, in terms of determining the size of the insurance premium.
The Head of State thanked for the significant contribution to the strengthening of relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union, etc.
the unity of the people of Kazakhstan is felt, I congratulate everyone on the day of unity, "he said.
ordinary people trust the president. the people believe in the president , in his strength , honesty .
The President of the Kazakhstan Railway noted that within the framework of the "Nұrly zhol" program, large-scale work is underway to build new railways, highways, reconstruct the infrastructure of seaports and airports.
we observed this indicator through exit poll, "he said.
agreements have been concluded with the first residents of the industrial zone, "he said.
The creation of the solar city joint venture involves pooling resources for the execution of an offtake contract.
During their visit, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the city's health infrastructure, the work of medical organizations and their material and technical equipment.
we look forward to holding these holidays, which will increase the patriotism of the people, "he said.
agricultural products amounted to 1.5 billion tenge.
firstly, this is due to a drop in prices for export goods in world markets and sanctions between Europe and Russia, "the president said.
The year of the assembly will be the year of our specific affairs, will contribute to the achievement of the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
this charity project will be held in the republic under the name of the humanitarian foundation "Degdar" "Fate connecting the centuries."
In addition, according to the deputy chairman of the NPP, in Kazakhstan one and a half thousand companies work to receive guests.
This meeting was agreed in September last year during the visit of the President of Iran to Kazakhstan.
we are accelerating the implementation of trilingualism. we gather pace of implementation of trilinguism .
Washington highly appreciates Kazakhstan's constructive foreign policy, especially in the field of security and nuclear disarmament, as well as in the field of energy.
currently, at the initiative of the head of state, the program "Nұr zhol" is being implemented.
exit poll was held from 7 to 20 a.m. at 550 polling stations, including 312 urban, 238 rural.
During the implementation of the program, the need for amendments to the state's anti-corruption policy was revealed, "he added.
in the amount of 1.47 billion tenge, the entire infrastructure was attracted to the plant - the highway, telephoning, drinking and technical water, sewerage, gas pipeline and jet.
defence and security of the parliamentary assembly of the parliament of the senate of parliament; social policy and human rights of the permanent commissions on socio-economic and legal issues of the CIS; political issues and international cooperation; at meetings of the Standing Committees on Science and Education.
we believe in you, connect the future of our country only with you, "the letter says.
The total cost of the project is 600 million tenge.
the trade industry is one of the most important sectors of the economy, in nominal terms it amounted to 5.3 trillion tenge. the trade sector is one of the important things in the economy , in nominal terms its volume amounted to 5.3 trillion tenge .
Recall that Zhsk is carried out together with the French partner company airbus defense and space.
the company, together with Austrian and international partners, will introduce new and unique products to the market in a short time.
It is worth noting that the presentation by the Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Army General, the Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey, the jubilee medal "20 years of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan" is a value confirming cooperation between the two countries.
According to the head of the department, in accordance with the new procedure for the formation of the industrialization map approved by the government, all projects launched in 2010-2014 will be automatically removed from the regional industrialization map.
if you take the European Union, then about 25-30% of gross agricultural products are subsidized, "he added.
we were preparing for all stages.	we worked through all kinds of scenarios .	1,41
the number of compromises shows a high indicator in the capital and Almaty, "he said.
together we went the people's way, believed in ourselves, gained independence, created a state, created a single nation, "the head of state said.
Acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Algerian People's Democratic Republic, Tunisian Republic with a strong Sakbaev envoy to the Egyptian Arab Republic;
in particular, they noted the economic benefit of launching the zhezkazgan-beineu railway line.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also talked with the labor collective.
So, in the 1st quarter of 2015, tourist flows from Germany, France, Japan, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the UAE, the UK, South Korea and Kazakhstan increased by 17%.
consideration of these bills, Kazakhstan's transition to a green "economy is another stage of its work," he said.
The cost of this project amounted to 6.4 billion tenge, 13 people were employed for permanent work.
the structure of industrial production is dominated by activities such as the production, transmission and distribution of electricity (33.1%), food production (32.3%), mechanical engineering (14.3), steam supply and air conditioning system (11.1%).
As a result, in 2014, the volume of energy savings at public sector facilities amounted to 3 million 783 thousand kWh or 45.396 million tenge. due to these measures 3 million 783 thousand kw / h ( 45 396 million tenge ) and 1 thousand 266 gigacalories ( 4.44 million tenge ) saved , " kassimov noted .
We are trying to compensate for all the needs of WWII veterans, "said the Director General of the Eurasian Media Forum.
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked them for participating in the VIII Astana Economic Forum, noting that this year's discussion is devoted to regional infrastructure development.
According to him, next year the music-tv award will be held at the Olimpiysky sports complex in Moscow.
the second question, eternal country. "
According to the report, last year 250 million tenge was allocated for the construction of medical facilities for 1,401,8 places in the island, Karmakshin, ice, Syrdarya and Zhanakorgan districts.
Last year, republican state enterprises sent 168.4 million pieces of sturgeon, aksak, seed and plant fish to reservoirs, "the report said.
Also, according to B. Uynbasarov, Ktzh conducts the process of business transformation.
The event was attended by students from South Korea studying "jurisprudence," "Russian language and literature," "foreign language," two foreign languages, "computing and software" and academic mobility.
Section 1 - "Kazakh Khanate - 550 years."
The "vista international" wind farm project is being implemented in the sphere of electric power industry of Zhambyl region.
The working group, consisting of the heads of a number of samruk-treasury companies, got acquainted with the work of Stanford and strong universities and well-known innovative companies, such as tesla motors, solarcity.
application began on March 17.
It is necessary to meet with business representatives and hold a meeting of professionals, "said E. Sultanov.
This project is being implemented with the support of the Steam Development Program in Kazakhstan and the International Coca-Cola Fund.
Most of our students entered Nazarbayev University, Kazakh, Czech, Bulgarian, Russian, Malaysian and Chinese universities, "says the deputy director of the school of gulnaz niyazalin.
of particular interest is the national museum. people are interested in the national museum .
"Land Relations Department," "Agriculture Department," "Construction Department," "Employment," "Consumer Protection," Credit Partnership "Shortandinsky Credit," mmo.
Today, Kazakhstan is the main country uniting Europe and Asia. today , kazakhstan is becoming a key country , which in the future will connect europe with asia .
under this agreement, "electrical equipment by type of power plants and networks," "repair, operation and maintenance of vehicles" "electronic computing equipment and software," maintenance and repair of agricultural equipment "" turning and metalworking, welding, "" operation of industrial machines and equipment. "
Recall that the awards "Glory," "For Courage," "For Military Feats" were awarded to representatives of the country's armed forces, internal affairs bodies, the state's defense service, the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, the Prosecutor General's Office and other bodies.
Also, together with Channel One of Eurasia, we are filming the multi-part film Our War and a permanent program about the heroes.
in our family, we came to a single decision, "said the cultural figure, holder of the Order of Honor, speaking at the extraordinary presidential elections in Kazakhstan.
agriculture is the mainstay of modern economic, social and industrial development. the agriculture is a core of modern economic , social and industrial development .
the main task of the head of state at the expanded government meeting is to support the real sector of the economy. the main instruction of the head of state , which was given at the enlarged session of the government , was the direction to support the real sector of the economy .
I constantly contact all the akims of the regions.
the historical roots of our countries are common and similar paths of development.
30.9 billion tenge has been invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
This year, farmers in the region collected 4.9 million tons of grain. this year , farmers harvested area of 4.9 million tons of grain in the original title .
the important meaning of your voice gives a powerful impulse.
there are three main components in the development of the state - the system, capabilities and supervision.
As a result of the meeting, the parties agreed on the advisability of establishing systemic ties in the areas of "gmm - a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions" and "gmm - an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan."
Governor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, veterans of the Second World War and Labor, representatives of the city council of veterans, ethnocultural associations and Almaty residents, as well as guests of the city took part in the ceremony of laying flowers to the eternal fire in the park named after 28 Panfilov guards.
Nazarbayev University and the Alatau Information Technology Park will become a locomotive for the transition to "economic education."
I signed a decree establishing an international financial center in the capital. i signed a decree on the establishment of an international financial center in astana .
all regions of the country are considered as geolocation.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, diplomats of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Thailand got acquainted with the investment potential of the country.
Last year, we changed the composition of the national scientific council. last year , we changed the stuff of the national research councils .
many international organizations are reducing the growth of the world economy this year. such international organizations such as the imf , wb , low growth forecasts for the world economy in the current year .
We intend to hold as transparent, transparent and democratic elections as possible in accordance with national legislation and international standards.
the lowest infant mortality rate was recorded in Astana (6.5), Almaty (7.8), Akmola region (8.4), "the ministry said.
I am sure that Kazakhstan under your leadership will enter a new stage of progress and development, "the telegram says.
Kazakhstan has become a donor that provides assistance to other countries, this is a clear reflection of the words of your country at a new stage of development, the Czech ambassador said.
wagon coupes have a dentist, dermatologist, urologist, mammologist, gynaecologist, neuropathologist, cardiologist, therapist, cdt-diagnosis, endoscopy, otolaryngologist, pediatric doctor, eye and registration rooms.
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 47 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 8.9 billion. Tenge, of which 2.8 billion were withdrawn from savings accounts. Tenge with payment to the budget of the fee for legalization of money for 307.2 million. Tenge.
mainly fish products are exported to the territory of the republic and to the CIS countries (Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan) and Europe.
Kazakhstani doctors have mastered high technologies in countries such as Russia, Latvia, Belarus, Germany, France, Turkey, the Czech Republic and India.
The use of all 3 languages ​ ​ reflected in real life, "he said.
as part of the first stage, the contest participants shot brief videos on the following topics: "Why is it important to know the Kazakh language today?" "Why do I want to learn Kazakh?" "specific ways of learning the Kazakh language," My international family, as we speak Kazakh at home. " "I speak linguistic unity and native language, Kazakh, Russian, English and other languages."
During the deepening of trade and investment cooperation, the need to take into account the potential of the two countries was noted.
at the same time, eao can become one of the most important structural elements of the new architecture of the world economy. in this regard , the eaeu may be one of the most important structural elements of the new architecture of the world economy .
The mission included all the member countries of the Shu: China, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan.
to publish this book, I went to Belarus and sat in the archives. to create this book , i went to belarus , and worked on the archive .
today we see that the country has specific plans, all conditions have been created. nowadays we see that the country has a clear plan , all conditions have been created .
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, "being a patriot" is always to keep Kazakhstan in the heart. "
the company supplies part of the products to Karaganda, Kokshetau and the capital.
Every citizen of Kazakhstan must cast his vote for the future president of Kazakhstan. every citizen of kazakhstan should vote for the future president .
When the war began in 1941, I was 5 years old. when the war started , i was 5 years old .
Unfortunately, I cannot participate in this event in the ministerial department, then there will be a conference in another area in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
During the meeting issues of tourism and hotel business in Kazakhstan were discussed.
In addition, this year several objects will be tested in pilot mode, "said the project manager.
in Kazakhstan we are respected. in kazakhstan people respect me , i live well here .
I wish Kazakhstan peace and friendship. i wish kazakhstan peace , harmony and friendship .
the work was organized on the model of the Zhanazeland fronterra and the Danish arla with the development of cooperative production in the village.
since our country is part of the "economic belt" of the silk road, it will also support the Chinese people's republic, "the head of state said.
winners will take part in international events, competitions are scheduled for June, "the statement said.
panel of appellate judges: Frank tyre (Netherlands), participants - henri mako (France), Jan Zholtowski (Germany), "the report said.
I came to observe the elections in Kazakhstan, I noticed, a lot of people come, everyone's mood is high, this is a very good day for Kazakhstan, today you can observe the level of democracy and economic development, "added Jacob Zenn.
the consumer price index in February 2015 compared to December 2014 amounted to 101%.
the meeting was attended by presidents - from Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev, from Armenia - Serzh Sargsyan, from the Republic of Belarus - Alexander Lukashenko, from Kyrgyzstan - Almazbek Atambayev, from the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, as well as the chairman of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
As a result, we assume that the volume of container traffic in 2015 will increase 17 times and reach 951 in 2020, "he said.
According to him, "the great contribution of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the elder of the Turkic world to relations between the two countries is N.A. Nazarbayev.
I congratulate all citizens of our countries on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the council will cooperate with international organizations.
I am sure that the staff and students of Nazarbayev University will make a great contribution to the development of new technical solutions for the introduction of "smart service" in the capital.
today there are 496 km between the capital and Pavlodar and 16 sections between Pavlodar and Semey, "said E. Kizatov.
Currently, JSC "kegoc" is engaged in the modernization of the national electric network of Kazakhstan.
to appoint baizhan-gabitas as the director of the foreign intelligence service of the Republic of Kazakhstan "syrbar," the text of the decree says.
- I have successfully implemented the "Nұrly zhol" program.
it's very important.
In accordance with paragraph 2 of article 3 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 26, 1995 "On the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan decides: to determine the date of taking the oath of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, elected in the early elections on April 26, 2015, - said B. Mel
The credit partnership (hereinafter - ks) was established in 2001 in rural areas with the aim of providing low-paid loans to agricultural producers with state support through the ak agricultural credit corporation.
As part of the project, a special service for online voting has been launched. the project provides functionality for online voting .
It is necessary to work so that large world companies are interested in the import substitution of objects.
To date, Kazakhstan has registered 6 million employees and 180 thousand employers. currently , over six million of employees and 180 thousand of employers are in kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan sees Algeria as its reliable and constructive partner on the African continent and in the Arab world as a whole, "he said.
According to the akimat, there are currently 19,302 veterans in the region, including 340 veterans and war disabled people, 1,121 rear workers, 31 blockades, 137 concentration camp prisoners, 17 volunteer formations, 867 veterans spouses, 16,867 rear workers.
industrialization is an important topic for both Kazakhstan and foreign partners and investors. the industrialization is important issue for kazakhstan and for all foreign partners and investors .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that high-quality infrastructure development, job creation, primary support of small and medium-sized businesses by the state will be included in the tasks of the Nұrly Zhol program.
this year it is planned to hold such seminars in Pavlodar, Aktobe, Uralsk, Petropavlovsk, Taldykorgan and Astana.
the plant was officially opened on December 19, 2013 with the participation of the head of state.
According to preliminary data, 17 million tons were collected this year, which is 6.6% lower than in 2013, "he said.
this is a clear indicator of the stability of our country, because "while the guns pear, the ice chokes."
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Petro Poroshenko discussed prospects and topical issues of bilateral cooperation, including the organization of the visit of the President of Ukraine to the capital.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state at the expanded meeting of the government, it is proposed to provide anti-crisis measures in the amount of 101 billion tenge within the framework of the state program of infrastructure development "Nұrly zhol" in 2015, "the minister said at the presentation of the updated draft program of socio-economic development for 2015-2019.
it is equipped with modern Siemens equipment.
if you look, then last year we provided statistics on those employed on our website, "the minister said.
During the talks, issues of intensifying bilateral economic relations were discussed, as well as measures to resolve the situation in eastern Ukraine as part of the upcoming meeting of the heads of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France, the report said.
according to the concert program, where creative youth in the "inspiration" laureate of the international festival folklore ensemble "Ainakol" - the leader of the Koyshybayev channel, the Gakku dance ensemble, the "inspiration" of creative youth, the laureate of the international festival - the performer of the Bekmagambet holiday, Galimov rashida, diamond orazalin, "aru" quartet, fair kusain and tasty and delicious idrushes.
President of Engineering and Construction consolidated contractors international. in his congratulation, he noted the key role of the head of state in ensuring the continued prosperity of a strong and successful Kazakhstan.
relations of our countries, based on a common history, language and spiritual treasury, are distinguished by a good pace, "said the head of state.
similarity of views on topical issues of regional and international policy.
we are in favor of continuing the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, strengthening domestic political stability, and further development.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical trade, economic and investment issues of bilateral cooperation, the participation of the Chinese side in the international exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital and the holding of the next 3rd meeting of the Kazakh-Chinese business council.
we expect that this indicator will continue. we hope that this trend will continue .
infrastructure opens up transit opportunities for our country. the new infrastructure opens the transit potential for central asia and russia .
over the years, 1 million compatriots arrived in Kazakhstan.
reducing the incidence of tuberculosis is one of the priority areas of the state program "healthy Kazakhstan."
Last year, 16.2 thousand tons of rice were processed here.
the parties discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres.
This step will allow the introduction of "green" technologies in road construction in the form of experience on the eve of the international exhibition expo-2017.
According to the national company, Lossertales will meet with the chairman of the white board of Astana Expo-2017 talgate ermegiyaev.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as tourism, banking and support for Kazakhstan's candidacy to the UN Security Council were discussed.
our common destiny is an eternal country, our sacred Kazakhstan.
Under the program "Employment Road Map 2020" 996 million tenge were allocated, all of them were mastered.
So, for example, the overhaul of Abay Street worth 1 billion 49 million tenge began in 2013, this year it will be completed. so , general overhaul of abay street worth 1 , 49 billion tenge will be completed this year .
Nursultan Nazarbayev, as a real modernizer, created a new economy here, a new political system, Kazakhstan has become popular at the international level, economically attractive, "the ambassador said.
therefore, I will make every effort to participate in this. "
in 2014, the "eastern" lessons of courage, the day of the young army, the open day, the "soldier's porridge," "we are the descendants of victory, the Patriot campaign, the" Defender of the Fatherland Day, "" Army - through the eyes of children "held more than 200 events in the form of competitions, paramilitary games and relay races.
following negotiations, kaznex invest concluded a memorandum with the Chinese company cathay industrial biotechnology co.ltd.
In addition, between 2015 and 2017, linear routes worth 155 billion tenge were attracted, he said.
awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of the second degree, medals "For Courage," "For the Victory over Germany."
I listened carefully to the statements of the head of state at the expanded meeting of the government. i listened carefully speech of the heads of state at the enlarged session of the government .
a great deal of work has been done to promote international cooperation.
this indicates that, as President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, the contribution of women to the development of our state is growing, "the Governor of the region said opening the meeting.
This year, it has decreased, which does not correspond to our potential, because Ukraine is an important trade and economic partner of Kazakhstan, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we agreed with one company, but the situation has changed, we are conducting new negotiations, we do not exclude the possibility of changing the supplier, "he said.
this year, geography has expanded.
Draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Kazakh and French Governments on the Conditions for the Establishment and Operation of the Earth Remote Sensing Space System and the Spacecraft Assembly and Test Complex of 6 October 2009.
all this property thanks to the wise policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev. all this has been made possible thanks to the wise policy of president nursultan nazarbayev , " she said .
they are responsible for transportation, provision, communication and communication with the organizer.
we are building, we need to exchange experience, "said A. Musin.
In addition, in Kazakhstan, compared to 2009, innovative products increased by 7 times and in 2013 amounted to 578.3 billion tenge (1.65% of GDP).
in all polling stations where the voting was completed, this measure passed according to the requirements of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Elections."
It should be noted that the report contains detailed analytical materials on the course of the extraordinary presidential elections in Kazakhstan in 2015 and the nomination of candidates for them, on the election program and campaign materials, on the influence of foreign states and international organizations, the dissemination of information on the election process, exit poll results, voter turnout and voting results, public and public opinions.
In general, according to observers, there were no riots in the presidential elections.
According to representatives of the embassies of Kazakhstan, the book is the opening of the thematic series "world leaders" and is dedicated to the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
kaznex invest in 2014 attracted 8 foreign investments totaling $128 million. on the results of 2014 kaznex invest assisted in attracting foreign investors in the amount of 128 million us dollars .
The year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is another event on the path of prosperity of the Barpin people, "he said.
in addition, 2942.932 million tenge was allocated for the construction of engineering and communication infrastructure.
Tulpar Talgo Passenger Car Factory (Kazakhstan-Spain)
at the meeting, it was noted that the election to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council is an important priority in the country's foreign policy, and Kazakhstan intends to make a great contribution to global peace and security.
Following the meeting, memoranda were signed between the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, national companies and local producers for the development of local content, including Kazakhstan Temir Zholy LLP, Eurasian Group, Samruk-Energo JSC, Kazzink LLP and others.
Last year, 14-16 container trains per day were sent. last year , we reached the promotion of the container train for 14-16 days .
we intend to talk about measures taken by Kazakhstan in terms of infrastructure and industrial development and other programs being implemented, "the head of state said.
organizations engaged in general medical practice 4571425.0 thousand tenge (16.4%) organizations engaged in specialized medical practice 2738496.0 thousand tenge (9.8%), organizations providing services in the field of dentistry 671704.0 thousand tenge (2.4%), other organizations carrying out human health activities, provided services in the amount of 4478782.0 thousand tenge (16.1%).
Member of the Committee on Energy and Infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Commission (Minister). congratulated the head of state on a clear and convincing victory in the elections.
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland welcomes and supports Kazakhstan's efforts to diversify the economy, sustainable development and political modernization of the country, the telegram says.
Currently, two areas have been implemented in Kazakhstan - the continuation of industrial and innovative development and the development of the infrastructure program "Nұr zhol - the way to the future."
military personnel were interested in issues of state defense policy, countering new security threats in the world and the region.
Also in Kazakhstan, the quality of primary school (+ 3 positions), the quality of the education system (+ 9 positions) are dynamically advancing over 2 years, "the report said.
In addition, according to the Foreign Ministry, the ambassador held meetings with the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Foreign Affairs and Chairman of Ekyu Ivica dačić, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Minister of Justice Nikola Silaković, deputies of the Serbian Parliament, including representatives of states in the parliamentary ecu assembly.
Nұrly sting. "
we support Kazakhstan's desire to maintain stability within the country and in the region.
Kazakhstan Grain Forum "kazgrain" is a traditional international event organized by Kazagromarketing JSC.
Last year, the allocated funds were allocated to new manufacturing projects. last year , the funds were allocated only for the new projects in the manufacturing industry .
other countries are reducing the number of plants, we are building new facilities.
at the same time, products worth 13.170 billion tenge were recovered.
As you know, 2015 was the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War and the year of veterans in the CIS countries. 2015 was declared the year of the 70th anniversary of the great victory and the year of veterans .
investment volume - 337 million tenge, 30 jobs will be created.
we are interested in the further development of cooperation in the fields of economy, trade and investment, "he said.
the project is financed by the Swiss Development and Cooperation Authority. this project is financed by the grant of the swiss agency for development and cooperation , which is released through the trust fund created at the world bank .
In turn, the president of Nazarbayev University emphasized that one of the goals of the university is to contribute to the formation of the capital as an international center for innovation, business and education.
Citizens of Kazakhstan who are abroad take an active part in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan. the citizens of kazakhstan abroad take an active part in the election of the president of the republic of kazakhstan .
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan in his speech announced the new economic policy of the head of state in the message "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
According to the press service of the Senate, the Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship "on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation on trade and economic cooperation in the field of oil and petroleum products supplies to the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 9, 2010"; "On ratification of the Convention for the unification of certain rules of international air transport" and "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of natural monopolies and regulated markets."
Last year, the company produced 1071 tons of products, which is 405 million tenge.
The main goal of the program is the development of the infrastructure framework necessary for the economy, the opening of new business opportunities in the region. the main goal of the program is to reformat the infrastructure required by the economics , business and regions for implementation of new features .
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 61.8 million tenge will be allocated from the budget for participation of veterans in celebrating victory in the capital and cities of Moscow.
One of the new stations is called "Moscow," and in Moscow there is a station "Almaty."
we support a clean city, 92,000 people participate in the ecological subbotnik, 5,000 enterprises and organizations, 45 higher and secondary specialized educational institutions, 124 preschool and general education institutions, 58 health institutions, 161 state institutions, departments and national companies.
dear friends! dear friends !
Also during the conversation, promising ways of cooperation were discussed in the framework of the international exhibitions "expo-2017" in the capital and "expo-2020" in Dubai.
a "Hungarian trading house" has been created in Kazakhstan, a "working group on industry and innovation" and an intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation have been launched.
Presentation of the book dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
all conditions have been created for the successful work of the Kazakh and Russian troupe.
if we propose ways to combat these threats, it will open new horizons for the progress and development of the economy, which means improving the lives of people, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to K. Bishimbayev, the ecumenical apartment will cost 40-45 thousand tenge, which equals 55-65 thousand tenge per month in three-deck terms.
athletes (e-board) play on an electronic board, the game will be broadcast online around the world.
According to representatives of the Senate, during the visit, the special ambassador met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of New Zealand Gerard van Boheman and handed the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Prime Minister of New Zealand.
I am very happy to perform on the karlo feliche stage, and this is a cultural exchange between the two countries.
The heads of government of the two countries discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in various sectors of the economy.
in the export structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the majority were mineral products (53.4% of the total exports of the eurozone countries), metals and products from them (18.7%), chemical products (13.8%), animal and plant products, finished food products (4.4%).
Republic of Kazakhstan. the chronicle of independence .
legume prices increased by 18.7%, sugar beets - by 5.6%, and sunflower seeds - by 4.5%, untreated tobacco - by 3.9%, raw cotton - by 2.6%.
Today, the "Nұrly zhol" program is being implemented in the country, new enterprises are being opened, new jobs are being created.
we hope that you will take into account this proposal and agree to continue the large-scale projects you have begun, "the letter says.
According to the Prime Minister of Lithuania, in recent years there have been many common interests between Kazakhstan and Lithuania in the direction of bilateral cooperation.
in the direction of "Young Family" of the "Affordable Housing 2020" program, 95 applicants were selected.
Based on the exhibition in Moscow, we decided to hold the exhibition "Thank you for the victory" in the capital.
Today, we have all witnessed that Kazakhstan pays attention to this early, "he said.
we trust you and support your candidacy, "the letter says.
During the meeting, Karim Massimov noted that Kazakhstan is ready for close cooperation with African countries and international organizations within the framework of the pair.
This year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
Today, it is very important to use all the sources of state support for entrepreneurship available to us, "the mayor said.
during the construction of the new terminal, the capacity of the airport will increase from 3 to 7 million passengers per year, "said R. Sklyar
Kazakhstan is a party to several international treaties aimed at protecting the rights of the child, including the International Convention on the Right of the Child, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
In addition, it is necessary to continue work to increase the investment attractiveness of the capital, to effectively support small and medium-sized businesses, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
you are my "crisis key," "fifth way."
as of April 1 this year, the total amounted to 1 trillion 554.1 billion tenge and was fulfilled by 97.6%.
In the period June 2014 - May 2015, 79 objects are subject to privatization.
Despite the difficulties, the construction of facilities in Almaty will be continued and will be timely prepared for the Universiade, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
this forum is a study event. this forum is a forum of introduction .
By Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 1, 2015 No. 394 of nurymbets, wheat exchange was appointed Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
military rank of Major General:
Our meeting takes place after the historical event of the cross-border railway, opened by the presidents of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran, "said the president of Ktj uk'askar mom.
The action was held as part of the slogan "Made in Kazakhstan."
During the meeting, the head of state awarded the Order of Friendship of the II degree for his contribution to strengthening friendship and cooperation between peoples.
According to the Iranian minister, the will and intentions of the presidents of Iran and Kazakhstan are the key to successful cooperation between the two countries.
this is a modern, new kindergarten that meets all the requirements. it is a modern , new kindergarten , which meets all requirements .
The purpose of the agreement is to strengthen and expand economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Macedonia by creating favorable conditions for mutual investment. the purpose of the agreement is to strengthen and expand the economic cooperation between kazakhstan and macedonia by creating favorable conditions for mutual investment .
the people supports these initiatives, stability and unity in Kazakhstan, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
the Government carries out all the social tasks entrusted to it. the government will carry out the social obligations taking upon itself in full .
The project is implemented as part of the state program "chicken."
In general, the elections strengthen the confidence necessary for the sustainable development of Kazakhstan, "the Prime Minister said.
Section 2 - "great victory - 70 years."
Last year, a medical outpatient clinic, 4 schools and one kindergarten were commissioned in the region, "the head of state said.
The main reasons for refining the budget of the region as a whole for 2015 are making changes to the regional budget in the amount of revenues from the region itself, optimizing the costs of regional administrators of budget programs and turning budget revenues to the main priority areas.
As part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development, a large number of projects are being implemented in the region.
Four teams took part in the competition: war veterans in Afghanistan, war veterans on the Tajik-Afghan border, veterans of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and military personnel of the regional command "Capital."
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, 25.0 billion tenge was allocated for construction in 2 years, of which 11.2 billion tenge was allocated in 2014.
eurochem fertilizer among the large organizations that signed the memorandum of Merciful Mo LLP, Amangelsk Gas Processing Plant knaufigstaraz from medium and small organizations of Binomstroydetal LLP, Rysbaeva and Zhambylskaya Poultry LLP, Zhasulan flora LLP.
The rogalya family from the capital drew attention to the fact that all political and economic changes in the country are associated exclusively with the name of the President of Kazakhstan.
I see that you have achieved great success thanks to your peoples and government, "he said.
I hope that Lithuanian companies will be interested in investing in Kazakhstan and taking advantage of the opportunities provided by its dynamically developing economy, "the head of government added.
I propose to create a united Eurasian economic space, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The meeting also considered the summarized results of the group of companies, major investment projects, industry initiatives and issues of social responsibility.
Products are in demand in other regions of Kazakhstan - Pavlodar, Aksu, Petropavlovsk, Shymkent, Kyzylorda, Semey.
the production capacity of the enterprise is 10.8 thousand tons per year.
we are reducing the directions associated with new projects, which are now not so important for our economy, which can be left for a later time.
Cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary has risen to a high level. cooperation between kazakhstan and hungary has reached a high level .
The importance of further deepening of bilateral political, economic and humanitarian ties was noted, taking into account the political and economic potential of Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.
Thus, according to B. Sultanov, the public procurement system will be fully automated.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Astana company expo-2017 and the Sustainable Energy for All initiative, which determines the areas of cooperation between the two organizations.
Also, the President of Montenegro with particular enthusiasm heard the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," which will contribute to the infrastructure development of Kazakhstan at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
after the teleconference, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will award the winners of the presidential awards "gold quality" and "paryz," as well as diplomas of the republican competition-exhibition "Best Product of Kazakhstan."
The Minister expressed confidence that political cooperation between Romania and Kazakhstan will continue and create favorable conditions for mutually beneficial economic cooperation between the two countries.
The Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Shkolnik, who is on a working visit to Mangistau region, noted to the forum participants that according to the results of 2014, subsoil users of the oil and gas industry purchased goods, works and services totaling more than 3 trillion tenge, including the volume of Kazakh content amounted to 54%.
all this is done for you, for the benefit of every Kazakhstani, "the head of state said.
we lack sports managers, "he said.
In 2014, 10 projects worth 17 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map, in which 720 permanent places.
The theme of the exhibition: "Breakfast for the planet. the energy of life. "
international experience was widely used in the development of the bill.
Kazgermunai sp "is one of the largest oil producing companies in Kazakhstan.
iii. Industrialization and economic growth
in addition, a concert of folk ensembles "Veselki," "Ladushki," "Ensemble of grandmothers shanyrak" was organized at the meeting.
The Society of Entrepreneurs supports our country. " oshakbaev.
In addition, the program will provide half a million jobs, this is not enough for us, "the head of state said.
In 2015, it is planned to repair 5 educational facilities for a total of 91 million tenge.
At the forum, the Bahraini business community was presented with a presentation on Kazakhstan and its economic, political achievements, as well as on industrialization programs and the investment climate in the country.
Nazarbayev University has scientific projects, and we show them. there is scientific development at nazarbayev university and we have to show them .
The worldskills championship is a symbol of the competition that is now in the world.
preserve this as the most important wealth, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
they include military-patriotic actions, honors, competitions and others.
The state archive of the capital presented data on Kazakhstan's participation in the Second World War.
SK Ayyrbekova noted that this year, in accordance with the state program "healthy Kazakhstan," the introduction of a unified national health care system (budges) at the outpatient level has begun.
During the visit, talks were held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Sergey Lavrov.
measures of the state support will be carried out within the programs "Road Map of Business-2020", "performance-2020", "agribusiness-2020" and also within selling of the domestic processed goods and services and attraction of foreign investments", - it is said in the statement.
I want to inform you that today I held talks with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. i would like to inform you that today i have also met with president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat conveyed the greeting of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Slovenian leader.
Over the years of independence, our country has become a strong competitive country. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev also focused on the pace of socio-economic development of the region.
coin 925 sample is made of silver, weight - 24 grams, diameter - 37 mm, production quality - circulation "proof" - 3 thousand pieces.
we will support you within the framework of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan. we will support you through the laws of the republic of kazakhstan .
a professional cycling team has been created, showing high results, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The parties discussed the intensification of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Venezuela in the areas of economy, trade and investment, energy, as well as cooperation between international organizations.
taxes and revenues in the amount of 196.6 billion tenge to the state budget, the growth rate amounted to 107.1%.
In 2014, more than 260 million passengers were transported, which is 12.5% more than a year earlier.
all regions of our country celebrate the March holiday. our kazakhstan celebrates nauryz in all regions .
Note that the company "allurgroup," which includes the enterprises "agricultural holding" and "saryarkaklikprom," is one of the largest enterprises in the region.
In the period June 2014 - May 2015, 79 objects are subject to privatization.
The main speaker of the forum, deputy head of the representative office of the German economy in Central Asia Galia Zhunusaliyeva introduced the participants to the measures of the Government of Kazakhstan to increase the investment attractiveness of the country and the business climate, priority sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan, business requirements, simplified visa procedures for countries with high business activity in various sectors of the country.
1 . To appoint early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan on April 26, 2015.
The President of Kazakhstan was informed about the reconstruction of the city's markets and transport infrastructure and new architectural projects.
in their opinion, the Republic of Kazakhstan, thanks to its stable economic and foreign policy, favorable investment image, becomes the center of the eurozone, attracting foreign capital, new technologies, and labor.
The survey takes place as part of a special platform "el.kz" in the social network "sailau2015.el.kz."
I was invited to a military parade in the capital, for which I am very glad. i was invited to the military parade in astana , and i am very happy .
The Embassy of Kazakhstan sent to the guests and participants of the book fair books, brochures and booklets about the country of origin in Italian, as well as to the president. in the heart of Eurasia "and" g- global: the world of the 21st century. "
Also, projects "on volunteering," "on socio-cultural activities" were considered, model laws "on tourism activities" and "on the basics of Internet regulation" were provided.
the program is adapted to new markets, in particular, Central Asia, the Caucasus, Iran.	the program is aimed at new markets particularly in directions : central asia , caucasus , iran .	1,46
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of this meeting, which will allow exchanging views on a number of significant issues of bilateral cooperation.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed the importance of the meeting , which allows to exchange the views on a number of important issues of bilateral cooperation .	1,46
volume of consumption in the western zone of the unified electric power system of Kazakhstan (bej) 700.5 million square meters. (6.8%), in the south 1227.9 million kvtsag. (6.6%) and in the northern zone 63.3 million square meters. (0.1%), the report said.
158.8 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for this.
The history of gmm begins in September 2010, when the Prime Minister of Malaysia from the rostrum of the 65th session of the UN General Assembly initiated a call for the creation of his own structure in order to advance the process of restraint at the global level, the development of civil society institutions, and the fight against radical concepts.
they are ready to invest Kazakhstani producers, since, according to them, Kazakhstan now has a favorable investment climate, "Myrzakhmetov shared.
in general, in 2012-2014, 40 thousand teachers (13.3% of the total number of teachers) completed a 3-month advanced training course and 150 thousand people (50.8%) of short-term courses.
The purpose of this seminar is to develop and discuss practical measures in accordance with the national plan - 100 concrete steps of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev to implement five institutional reforms related to the development of the country's agriculture, the press service of the Academy reports.
I wish all the people peace, unity and unity.
Therefore, we must turn our region into a clean, energy-efficient, "green" city, "said the head of the region.
In Zhambyl region, relevant memoranda were concluded between Taraz Metallurgical Plant LLP, Kazphosphat LLP, Ktzh Uk ak JSC, Zhambyl branch of Kaztransgazimak and others.
the delegation of Kazakhstan is the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan with. Chakrabarti, Egyptian and Georgian delegations, foreign banks such as citi group, hsbc bank plc and the international rating agency moody's.
In the period June 2014 - April 2015, 75 objects are subject to privatization.
In accordance with the new law, trade unions will participate in the preparation of legislative acts related to social aspects, "he said.
To date, the National Agency for Technological Development continues to develop a subsidiary financing system.
this will strengthen the state, a strong country is very interested in the world community, "said dragomir karich.
Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council N. Yermekbaev reported on the state of national security and the activities of state bodies in this area.
In the period from June 2014 to May 2015, 144 facilities were subject to privatization.
In addition, according to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, as of 19.02.2015, the second-tier banks opened 67 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 10.7 billion tenge, including 3.9 billion tenge withdrawn from the savings account with payment of 428.2 million tenge to the budget for money legalization.
we created an association of kha last year to direct these departments, "he said.
an additional financial incentive was covered by 9.8 thousand doctors, 25.7 thousand secondary medical workers, 3.3 thousand obstetricians, 2.2 thousand social workers and 1 thousand psychologists, "the report said.
the history of our victories is a real example of patriotism and unity of the country, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
4.3 billion tenge was allocated and spent for these purposes.
103 million tenge was allocated from the budget for this.
pisa (program for international student assessment) - assessment of the mathematical, natural-scientific and reading literacy of 15-year-old students.
the commissioner, in turn, held talks with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, representatives of foreign economic relations and the leadership of "Uzburism."
continuing the topic of funding credit partners, Dauren mahajanov noted that today this association is 100% a private financial institution, where farmers themselves are the owners and founders, and, in his opinion, this institution should not depend on one source of funding.
Also, the Minister of Economy of Romania was presented with an invitation to the VIII Astana Economic Forum in May this year.
In 2014, 4 projects were put into operation with an estimated value of 2.1 billion tenge (Dis LLP, Kis-whitewash LLP, Caspian Highway LLP, Caspian Stone LLP), 167 permanent new jobs were created.
At the meeting, a wide exchange of views was held on investment cooperation issues and specific projects on the activities of German companies in Kazakhstan were discussed.
In 2014, projects launched as part of the industrialization map produced 90 billion tenge worth of products.
This year 92.3 billion tenge will be allocated for this direction.
all tickets for the Astana-Kyzylorda train were sold.
In addition, 75 facilities should be introduced within the framework of the industrial and innovative development program, on the basis of which 7500 new jobs will be created, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is that we must all be patriots of our country, "he said.
Recall that "On the republican budget for 2014-2016 years" in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 2013, 3 2014 year Kazagro "to carry out measures to support the subjects of the agro-industrial complex" under the budget program 023 Lending "National managing holding" Kazagro "Holding" was issued a budget loan for 40,000 million tenge for the period until December 2014, 20.
today a regulatory framework has been formed, "he said.
Graduates with the necessary specialties will be able to work throughout Kazakhstan, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
imangali nurgaliuls of the Tasmagambets - Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Among social projects: the purchase of tram cars, the construction of an indoor hockey court in the city of aksu, the overhaul of the gym of the house of children's creativity, the overhaul of the building of school No. 4 of Pavlodar, the improvement of domestic territories, etc.
To date, 97 appeals have been received from citizens, of which only 47 relate to electrification topics, "he said.
The country is undergoing rapid gas production, the volume of which now reaches 43.2 billion cubic meters, according to geological resources, taking into account 4 trillion cubic meters, this type of energy has great prospects. natural gas production is rapidly grown in the country , it reached 43.2 billion cubic meters and has a large-scale development prospects based on geological resources estimated at 4 trillion cubic meters .
At the same time, according to him, the constitution of the republic has great potential.
the lectures examined the peculiarities of military and national security, military strategy, management, economy, as well as the role and place of organizing the Collective Security Agreement in the international security system in the Eurasian space.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also focused on the main directions of the "Nұrly zhol" program and the implementation of industrial projects in the region.
We also got acquainted with the products manufactured under the brand "made in Kazakhstan," and acquired Kazakhstani goods.
the historical parade is also accompanied by zis-2 guns and m-30 zil-157 howitzers, a katyusha machine gun, a maxim machine gun, a rbd, and a cannon submachine gun.
we are ready to provide comprehensive support to the Kazakh government in the implementation of this ambitious goal, "the observer said.
We invite all states to take part in the exhibition, the theme of the expo will be devoted to "new energy," the President of Kazakhstan said.
Athletes from 5 regions of Austria, Georgia, Taiwan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan will be represented in the capital.
egg prices decreased by 21.5%, wool - by 1.4%, and raw milk - by 10.3%, "the relevant committee said.
this will increase the volume of production and, accordingly, increase the well-being of rural residents, "the head of state said.
I am very worried, I celebrate two holidays on this day. i am very excited , because i have two holidays at the same time .
in particular, social and sports facilities, housing, as well as transport infrastructure are being built.
Today, books about the first president of the country are prepared through the library and published in English, German, Hungarian, Chinese, Arabic, Turkish.
at the same time, the work of regulatory and tax authorities will be ensured, "said B. Sultanov.
rule of law, access to justice, sustainable development, international business disputes, business and human rights, etc.
design capacity - 30,000 tons of pvx products per year; polypropylene turbines and fittings - 5,000 tons per year; antifreeze - 1,100,000 tons per year, iomc - 300 tons per year.
In addition, the administration of the karlo feliche theater discussed the appearance of the capital's troupe in 2016 with the Swan Lake ballet staged by Kazakh choreographers, honored figures of Kazakhstan Tursynbek Nurkaliyev and the gala Buribaeva.
development institutions for the development of trade and economic relations between the countries of Europe and Asia. development institutions play an important role in developing and strengthening bilateral trade and economic ties between the countries of europe and asia .
I take this opportunity to wish you good health, inexhaustible efforts and new successes in state activity, and the fraternal Kazakh people - well-being and well-being, "the congratulation says.
in matters of global security, partnership development, friendly relations, interaction in the social, economic and cultural spheres. we have common views on global security , development of partnership and friendship , interaction in social , economic , and cultural spheres .
Central Museum of the Great Patriotic War in Moscow. "
Within the framework of the visit, the President of Kazakhstan will take part in the informal summit of the CIS heads of state, a meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council and will meet with the President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
In this regard, the Kazakh diplomat noted that President N. Nazarbayev's message "Nұrly Zhol," "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050," 2015-2019. on the basic principles of the industrial and innovative development program.
Let there never be a war, "the veteran wished.
over the past two years, 457 million tenge was allocated, 98 projects of small and medium-sized businesses were implemented and 220 new jobs were created.
A training programme on economic expertise and the development of programmes and action plans at the local level was organized by the project "Regional Development of Kazakhstan."
R. Zhoshybayev sent an official invitation to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the Expo-2017 exhibition to the head of the Lithuanian state, Dahl Grybauskaite.
Speaking to the participants of the round table, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan described the main directions, goals and objectives of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol," noting that the strategic development program of this state is the driving force of the growth of the Kazakh economy for the coming years.
and Kazakhstan's stability is that of central Asia.
this means that our courage is important for the Motherland.
According to the head of the department, in 2015 the construction of 100 projects continued.
Recall that for domestic traffic, the President of Kazakhstan instructed to create Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The main direction of the development of the capital will be the new economic policy "Nұr zhol."
we love our country, love and believe in our president, "the congratulation says.
During the meeting, the sides also discussed the possibilities of developing bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres.
The meeting was attended by Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration B. Maylybayev, Minister of Education and Science a.sarinzhipov, heads of structural divisions of the Presidential Administration, representatives of the Ministries of Education and Science, Investment and Development, Health and Social Development, the Central Communications Service, Nazarbayev University and Eurasian National University named after L.
one hundred thousand tenge.
Currently, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian Development Bank, the international financial corporation, the Islamic Development Bank and the Kazakh company Treasury Capital Management are interested in financing this project.
The congress will be attended by representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the Union of Writers of Kazakhstan, regional branches of the Nur Otan party, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
we must learn from our history, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
more precisely, for Russia, central Asia and others.
Contractor - local company of Remstroybyt LLP.
representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament, representatives of the republican state enterprise "Public Consent," the Ministry of Culture and Sports, Education and Science, Investment and Development, Justice, Health and Social Development, Agriculture, Internal Affairs, representatives of scientific and creative intelligentsia and youth organizations.
dairy products (45.4%), bakery and flour products (22.9), vegetable oil (14.4) and flour industry products (12.6%) lead in the production of food products.	in food production leading place is occupied by dairy products ( 45.4 % ) , bread and flour products ( 22.9 % ) , vegetable oils ( 14.4 % ) and milling industry products ( 12.6 % ) .	1,47
the company's products are certified.	the company 's products are certified .	1,47
As noted in the national company, the conference will present the project online expo-2017, "which is an initiative of non-governmental organizations.
he also served as Vice Minister of Industry and Trade of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service, the delegation got acquainted with the work of the Altynkol railway station, the Khorgos Eastern Gate aea dry port, the Khorgos international center for border cooperation (hsho).
South Kazakhstan region has created all the necessary conditions for the agro-industrial complex. south kazakhstan region has all necessary conditions for agriculture .
He noted that last year 2.06 billion tenge of investments were attracted.
and European countries recognize that Kazakhstan is an established state.
Over the years of independence, more than 1 million Kazakhs returned to their historical homeland.
In the first and second cases, issues of support for domestic production will be raised, "he said.
from the beginning of the year at 10:00 local time, respectively, on February 6.
According to the West Kazakhstan region, the main production of the plant is shipbuilding, which since 1993, on the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministries of the Republic of Kazakhstan, has been approved as a plant for the production of defense vessels of the republic.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation between the two countries in a number of areas were discussed, including trade, economic, investment, fuel and energy spheres.
During the presentation of the bill on public procurement, the Minister focused on the examination of risks at all stages of public procurement.
in many countries, the new year begins from that date.
at the meeting we discussed these issues.
The Central Asian regional economic cooperation programme has been launched in Kazakhstan since 2001 and is a partner of 10 countries.
their work will continue from May to August. the work is seasonal and lasts from may to august .
we are an example of cooperation in Kazakhstan in the production of wine brands and pharmaceutical products, "he said.
In his speech, he spoke about the concept of regional development of the regional assembly, social projects and competitions.
According to him, China is developing a "one belt, one road" strategy, which is one of the largest projects to form a new communication system for cross-border cooperation.
Akshaev arterbail,
studied at the first infantry school in Tyumen.
Abdykadyr Bolsambekov was a member of the council of veterans of the internal affairs bodies, the regional council of veterans, a member of the republican public association "Soviet General."
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed the main issues of Kazakh-Belarusian relations, including cooperation in trade, economic, investment, industrial and agricultural spheres.
machinery and equipment (38.4% of the total imports of the EAEU countries), mineral products (21.0%), metals and products from them (10.2%), chemical products (8.5%), animal and plant products, finished food products (8.1%) are most imported from the EAEU countries.
transition from a five-step judicial system (first, appeal, cassation, supervision and reassignment) to a three-step (first, appeal, cassation) justice system.
at the first stage, we selected 26 out of 50 people, the rest left only 9, "said the leader of the blogger group.
At the event dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, Akmola Media Center reported at the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region, he congratulated students of higher educational institutions born on March 1, 1995 on their birthday.
we assumed that there would be such difficulties, but the meaning, purpose of the treaty and the tasks set in it are correct, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this will contribute to the prosperity of business, increase the well-being of the whole people, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2014 the company allocated 122 million tenge for social projects, in 2015 - 150 million tenge.
In Strategy 2050, the president outlined new principles of social policy.
for us he is the best father!, "said the daughter of the veteran.
In 2015, we plan to launch 6 projects worth 8 billion tenge. in 2015 , we plan to launch six projects with a total value 8 billion tenge .
askar isabekula myrzakhmetov - akim of South Kazakhstan region;
It is noted that the following were invited to the meeting: Afghanistan, baa, Vietnam, Japan, Indonesia, Jordan, Iran, Iraq, Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mongolia, Egypt, Oar, Oman, Pakistan, Palestine, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Tajikistan, heads of diplomatic missions of Turkmenistan, India, as well as the ambassador of the Russian Federation Atook part in the diplomatic capital.
Bakhyt turlykhanovich sultanov - Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
thanks to the president's attention, our concern for veterans.
all members of the national team are laureates of national delphic games, prize-winners of republican and international competitions.
Recently, on behalf of the president, the Impulse-2050 program was adopted.
(1995-1997) first steps. "
this forum is a bridge between our states. "
This is used in world practice, "the minister said.
we believe you.
also carried out a lot of work on the development of infrastructure, construction, sports.
our Constitution guarantees the equality of all citizens regardless of racial, ethnic, religious or social characteristics. our constitution guarantees and protects the equal rights of all citizens regardless of race , ethnicity , religion , social origin .
to date, the allocated funds under the program have been fully used in the West Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Aktobe, Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Kostanay, South Kazakhstan, Karaganda regions.
that is, with the help of new technologies, it is possible to really increase the energy efficiency of the economy in Kazakhstan, "said Shoe.
In February of this year, at an expanded meeting of the government, the head of state instructed to place funds.
grant funding was transferred to 32 start-up entrepreneurs in the amount of 62.3 million tenge, including in 2014 - 12 entrepreneurs in the amount of 18 million tenge.
building a state, uniting a multi-thousandth state into one goal and task, developing the Kazakh economy, increasing Kazakhstan's authority in the world and establishing friendly relations with neighboring states. the main things are the building of the state , combining of multi-ethnic country to one aim and task , the growth of kazakhstan 's economy , the growth of kazakhstan 's authority in the world and friendship around the perimeter of our borders .
industrialization and economic growth
Members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan unanimously supported the candidacy of Nursultan Nazarbayev for the post of President of Kazakhstan.
Note that Baiterek has developed a new program to support white medium-sized businesses.
As you know, thanks to the support of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the construction of a national tennis center began in the capital. for many of us , it is no secret that the construction of the national tennis centre in astana has begun with the support of our president .
According to Dr. Strzhnev, the company successfully implements the first stage of the project - the construction of a mining complex, including crushing and dismantling.
this is an institute for the protection of business, "said the chairman of the board of the Damu Enterprise Development Fund.
Of this volume, about 4 thousand 600 apartments are expected to be commissioned in 2015 in Astana, Almaty, Semey, Kostanay, Pavlodar, Aktobe, Shymkent, Kokshetau, Taraz, Kyzylorda and Taldykorgan, "K. Bishimbayev said.
this year, the European immunization week in Kazakhstan will be held under the motto "prevention, protection, vaccination."
To connect the video online service, you need broadband Internet access through an IP camera, megaline, id net, altel 4g or any other Internet provider.
In memory of the largest victims of forced migration - some 15 million men, women and children - the international community celebrates 25 March as the international day of remembrance of the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade over the past seven years.
"To date, construction work has been completed on the Beineu-bristpe site and construction work has begun on the Armor-Whitewash site," the report said.
Gmp (good manufacturing practice) standards must be in Russia, the same in Kazakhstan.
achievements of Kazakhstan during the years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, as well as the atomic project, "g-global," 2017 in the capital About the current domestic political situation and cooperation in the international arena, including the organization and other projects of the international exhibition "Exp-2017."
we must maintain our interethnic consent, "he concluded.
Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. "
carrying out the necessary infrastructure measures for the Business Roadmap 2020 projects will cover 10 billion tenge of the national fund, "said M. Susainov.
most of them work in government bodies and national companies in the field of noise, "he said.
the total budget of the four-year (2013-2017) project is 6.288,000 euros.
At the same time, according to him, the volume of oil production in 2015 according to all scenarios will be 80.5 million tons, in 2016 - 80.8 million tons, in 2017 - 86.0 million tons, in 2018 - 90.0 million tons and in 2019 - 93.0 million tons.
In 2014, 13.4 billion tenge was invested in the construction of housing in the region.	13.4 billion tenge invested to housing construction .	1,49
This year, the economy of Kazakhstan developed under the negative influence of external factors.
The head of the Senate of Kazakhstan expressed hope for support for the candidacy of our country for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council and called on Italian companies to take part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
the interests of the capital and the Riyadh coincide on many regional and international issues, issues of economic cooperation, you can see the cooperation of two friendly states - the Dossayev Erbolat emphasized.
in particular, one-time material assistance is provided in the following order: participants and persons with disabilities - 100 thousand tenge, persons equated to the participants of the Second World War and disabled people, citizens who contributed to the victory - 70 thousand tenge, spouses, parents of military personnel who died during the War, residents of besieged Leningrad and prisoners until adulthood in concentration camps, ghettos and other places of forced detention created by the Nazis and their allies during the Second World War - 30 thousand tenge, workers of the rear and spouses of the dead disabled of the Great Patriotic War, persons equated with them for their contribution to the victory in the Great Patriotic War - 25 thousand tenge.
this will give a great impetus to the development of transport logistics, "the minister continued.
ensuring sustainable and Turkic development of Kazakhstan, issues of the national currency, the basis of economic independence, issues of expanding the state border.
Therefore, the December teleconference is devoted not only to the presentations of investment projects of the industrialization map for the 2 half of 2014 year, but also to the preliminary results of the five-year plan.
if we compare the Central Asian countries, then Kazakhstan can serve as an example for its neighbors.
I hope that as a result of their implementation Kazakhstan will become a member of the world trade organization and the organization of economic cooperation and development.
awarded the Order of the Red Star and orders "for military service," "for the victory over Germany."
we are interested not only in attracting investments, but also in investing in Kazakhstan. we attach importance not only to attract investment to our country , but also want to invest in kazakhstan .
today our special economic zone is the best place to implement investment projects. today 's our special economic zone today is an ideal place for the realization of investment projects .
Aitzhanova Zhanar Seidakhmetovna - Minister for Economic Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
among the awarded - figures of culture, education and science, health care, representatives of the economy and business.
The sides expressed interest in the development of trade and economic cooperation in the fields of energy efficiency, green economy development, new technologies.
Members of the Astana Solar team expressed confidence in the policy of the head of state aimed at conducting economic and political reforms.
today our country is at the center of international relations. today our country is at the epicenter of the international relations .
56% of them work with 100% load.
238.8 thousand tons of meat were produced (growth by 6.6%), 775.7 thousand tons of milk (growth by 2.4%), 154.4 million pieces of eggs (growth by 7.4%).
The number of legal entities registered in the IV quarter of 2014 year is 1718 units, the main number of which is concentrated in Almaty districts "(54.7%) and" saryarka "(27.8%).
In general, in 2015 the volume of allocated funds in the field of education amounted to 2,383 million tenge.
at us, at Kazakhstanis, all victories and achievements are connected with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev. we , kazakhs , asociate all these reforms , all the changes with the name of our nation 's leader nursultan nazarbayev .
So, in Zhambyl region within three years it is planned to open an agricultural zone on an area of 1000 hectares, where a modern cluster of livestock and enterprises for the production of meat and milk will be located.
Among the 20 groups wishing to take part in the festival, there are artists of cities and villages whose age characteristics are diverse, even those who first enter the stage among artists.
the state will continue this work, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Only 4 billion tenge will be allocated from the local budget and the Development Fund for lending to these industries, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The heads of state will consider issues of deepening mutual trade and economic cooperation between the three countries.
In general, for 2015 - 60 billion, for 2016 - 90 billion, from 2017 to 2019 - 100 billion tenge annually.
this year in the capital we will conduct a battle of nomads-5. "
of all these complex tests, the best result was the soldier of the military unit 21742 senior sergeant kugentayev, the second place was taken by the soldier of the military unit 21450 sergeant elnur trotters, and the third place was taken by the soldier of the military unit 21742 with the enlistment of the junior sergeant imankali.
The holding of the astana piano passion contest in the capital has become a driving force for them, "said the director of the Accordi di astana public fund, Lyudmila Doroshenko.
Behind this is a great merit of experts, politicians, deputies, representatives of business and the public of our states, "the head of state said.
The purpose of the visit is to invite representatives of the Republic of Lithuania to the international exhibition Expo-2017 and to discuss the prospects of cooperation between the two countries.
The innovative business received a new breakthrough in the framework of the first five-year plan of industrialization. within the first five-year program of industrialization the innovative business has received a new impetus .
and they, most importantly, meet all the dreams of the people of Kazakhstan, "said A. Vybelny in an interview with reporters.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the Thai Minister about the current socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the favorable investment climate of the country, the international exhibition expo-2017.
79 young lieutenants visited various facilities of the military unit: a command and dispensary, a storage group, a technical and operational part, a warehouse of fuel and lubricants, a communications center and radio engineering facilities.
M. Zeman highly appreciated the political, socio-economic modernization of Kazakhstan and achievements aimed at strengthening regional and international security.
in particular, for infrastructure projects - 2.2 billion tenge, training in the basics of microcredit and entrepreneurship - 1.0 billion tenge, assistance in employment - 0.6 billion tenge.
The assembly year takes place simultaneously in all regional and district centers, settlements, cities of the capital and Almaty.
Nұrly Zhol is aimed at developing the country's infrastructure, modernizing housing and communal services, creating new jobs.
Kazakhstan is a potential area of cooperation with me: dog, transport, communications, infrastructure and chemistry.
teenagers got acquainted with the life of military personnel of military unit 41433, subordinate to the "western" regional command, visited the point of daily combat duty of fighters, as well as at personnel classes.
As part of the Action Plan to ensure the country's economic growth until 2014, 53 permits were issued this year to burn additional volumes of gas to ensure oil production at the level of 81.8 million tons, and oil producing companies were given the right to export super-planned produced oil, he said.
we are interested in expanding cooperation with the Kazan aviation plant. we are interested in expanding cooperation with the kazan aircraft plant .
the relevant bodies should do a lot of work on this issue, "said the Ukrainian president.
the law provides for cooperation with international organizations.	the law includes the article on cooperation with international organizations .	1,50
We will summarize the main results of the year at an expanded meeting of the government.	the main results of the year , we summarize the enlarged session of the government .	1,50
the farmer will receive a loan in the amount of 2.5 million tenge and will implement a sowing program.
The Prime Minister highly appreciated the pace of political dialogue between the two countries and the socio-economic successes of Kazakhstan over the years of independence.
The event was attended by representatives of the National Agency for Export and Investment "kaznex invest," the Embassy of Kazakhstan, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Armenia, Kazakhstan and Armenian business.
We can work like this, "said the head of state.
I want to note that Almaty has created all the conditions for foreign investors, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
the state is not a milking cow, "said the head of state.
According to the results of 2014, tripartite oil production in Kazakhstan - 32.2 million tons (to-26.7 million tons), Mangistau region - 18.5 million tons, (Mangaumunaigaz - 6.3 million tons), (Karazhambasmunai - 2.1 million tons) West Kazakhstan region - 13.1 million tons (Karachayevets, petroleum operetting - 12.2 million tons).
During the meeting, A. vinokurov handed the head of state the shirt of the cycling team "Capital," which won last year in the multi-day bike parade "Tour de France."
According to him, in his next message, the head of state paid special attention to the development of social infrastructure.
he also specified that he would take part in the upcoming VIII Astana Economic Forum as the head of the Eidu delegation.
we will have a Kazakhstan parade, and I will meet with veterans here, May 8 in Moscow, "the president said.
these proposals will be taken into account in the development of the State Health Development Program for 2016-2020.
we recently learned about the international study event - the international day of reading books. recently we have known about the interesting international action - international day of book giving .
it is an organization open to constructive interaction with other countries and international organizations. the organization is open for constructive cooperation with other countries and international organizations .
It is important that there is another alternative for the business, "said the stewart of the panel.
Kazakhstan intensifies economic, investment and technological cooperation with the countries of the Asia-Pacific region and regional structures. we are oriented for activation of economic , investment and technological cooperation with the countries of the asia-pacific region and regional structures .
At a meeting of the Central Electoral Commission on April 20 the decision on cancellation of accreditation of the observer of a mission of observers for the Commonwealth of Independent States tereshkovy century of century and election in the order of the new member of the commission established by the law instead of the left member of the Karaganda regional election commission of page of the item was also made on purpose of ospanovy.
butter production increased by 3 times, vegetable oil production increased by 60%, milk - by 20%, yogurt - by 30%, cheese - by 26%.
organizations engaged in general medical practice 5689277.0 thousand tenge (16.4%) organizations engaged in specialized medical practice 2773988.0 thousand tenge (8%), organizations providing services in the field of dentistry 715866.0 thousand tenge (2%), other organizations carrying out human health activities, provided services in the amount of 5574876.0 thousand tenge (16.1%).
the head of the region visited the "crust" and "kapatas" reservoirs located in the Kordai region.
During the recent visit of the Turkish president to Kazakhstan, they expressed interest in creating a trade community with us.
this program works for Kazakhstani producers of harvesters of agromash holding "white" and harvesters "vector."
In 2015, the ministry expects the installation of 200 oil wells - the volume of seismic exploration will be 2d 3150 km and 3d 350 square meters. meters, - said the Vice Minister.
for the first time we reached such an export volume. the first time we achieved such a volume of export .
In June, I will participate in the summit of the African Council. in june , i will participate in the summit of the african union .
2 billion tenge will be allocated from the regional budget for this work.
Within the framework of the action dedicated to the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the Health medical train, which began work simultaneously with the My Kazakhstan, Zhastar and Healthy Kazakhstan trains, continues to implement a social project.
Kazakhstan's integration into international transport and communication flows.
As it became known at a press conference dedicated to summing up the results of the next working day, deputies of the Majilis and members of public consent who arrived by train received 20 citizens of the district and helped solve their issues.
on the same day, a special issue for Kazakhstan was published in the English-language newspaper the helsinki times.
Two financing formats have been identified - through the budget and the provision of loans to the Baiterek holding.
kulaysha aktayev his activities as a teacher of the new history of European and American countries. n. began working on behalf of Gumileva, worked within the walls of the university for 20 years.
This action was attended by representatives of the press, local and foreign tourists.
According to the press service of the Majilis, the bill "On Amendments and Additions to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2017 "was considered at the meeting.
in addition, the head of the city was shown a preliminary draft of the investment program "old house" for 2015-2020.
Muhammad and Saleh al-Sada became interested in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital and the opportunities for cooperation with our side in the oil and gas sector.
I want to emphasize once again that I want to continue our work with you to strengthen our bilateral cooperation and find new opportunities for cooperation between Kazakhstan and Brazil, the congratulation says.
Also, according to him, in the period from 2015 to 2020, large road projects will be implemented, such as "center-south," "center-east," "center-west."
We also celebrate other important holidays this year, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to Kazavtodor, synohydro corporation limited works as a contractor in the above parts of the Western Europe-Western China corridor.
In the capital, from February 11 to 12, the first stage of the EAEU Customs Code was completed.
of these, 56 projects worth 11.8 billion tenge were subsidized under the Business Roadmap 2020 program in 2014, 856 new jobs were created, which is 1.7% higher than in 2013.
He was awarded the Orders of Glory of the 3rd degree, World War 2 degree and "for the victory over Germany," "for the development of virgin lands," the medal "Veteran of Labor," "Marshal of the Soviet Union."
The inflation rate is planned to be maintained in the corridor of 6-8%, "Dossayev said during the presentation of the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Amendments and Additions to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget for 2015-2017."
e-government through infrastructure provides more than 70 services and services, "the minister said.
in the export structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the majority were mineral products (50.9% of the total exports of the eurozone countries), metals and products from them (19.9%), chemical products (15.2%), animal and plant products, finished food products (3.9%).
under the project, 780 heads of Holstin-Frisian caviar, technological equipment for keeping livestock and processing milk were leased, cows and auxiliary rooms with a calf were erected, as well as agricultural equipment necessary for feed production.
In addition, according to K. Massimov, the Prime Minister of Croatia will meet with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, political issues between Kazakhstan and Croatia and the European Union will be discussed at the meeting.
a new economic policy against the state of the world economy. "
"In 2015-2017, 73 schools are planned to be built at the expense of the National Fund for 61.9 billion tenge," said E. Imangaliyev.
we will continue to promote the economic and social development of Afghanistan. " Nazarbayev.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan e. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan pays great attention to cooperation with the Khkts.
I'll vote this time!
in our law, we guarantee investors in priority sectors support the enterprise through changes in legislation and subsidies, "he said.
The Astana Economic Forum is one of the largest international forums in the world.
the first match of the group stage of the national student league will be played by the teams "arlan" (excavations named after al-farabi) and "polytech" (kazutu named after K. satpayev.
last year the plant produced products in the amount of KZT290 mln, revenue for the 1st quarter of the current year - KZT30 mln.
Thus, we were one nation. "
according to the information, the program will be carried out through subsidiaries of Baiterek Holding - Development Bank of Kazakhstan, Treasury Capital Management, National Agency for Technical Development, Kazexportgarant.
Recall that the inauguration ceremony of Nursultan Nazarbayev is taking place in the capital - the official assumption of office of the President of Kazakhstan.
the diversity of our society is not our weakness, but our power. the diversity of our society is our strength , not a weakness .
poultry meat rose by 12.4%, pork - by 6.4%, conin - by 4.5%, cattle - by 2.7%, lamb - by 2.6%. poultry meat increased in price by 12.4 % , pigs - by 6.4 % , horses - by 4.5 % , livestock cattle - by 2.7 % , sheep - by 2.6 % .
we call for an example from Kazakhstan.
In the Terektinsky district, the implementation of the "sybaga" program amounted to 250%, under the "kulan" program 205% was completed, under the "golden asyk" program 1075 heads of sheep were received.
The foreign ministers considered issues of cooperation within the framework of international organizations, including steam, shui, boarding and boarding, integration associations, as well as exchanged views on topical issues of the list of international values, including the situation in Ukraine and Syria.
of which the share of Kazakhs amounted to 83.4%, Russians - 9.8%, Tatars, Ukrainians, Uzbeks - about 0.6-1.9%, other nationalities - 3.6%.
The sides noted the need to develop bilateral trade and investment cooperation using the capabilities of the two countries.
Dnieper Ukrainian Cultural Center. "
In this regard, the Nұrly zhol program pays attention to infrastructure modernization.
aa. Idrissov congratulated the men on their election in 2016 to the post of chairman of the country's ecu, noting that Germany is an important partner for Kazakhstan in Europe, and relations between our countries are reliable, open and fruitful.
We are also thinking about continuing this project, which was pledged on the loan of the SME network, "he said.
public foundation "Voluntary Society of Mercy," aimed at helping incurable, seriously ill children in Kazakhstan "give children life," Kazakhstan without orphans "and" win autism! " initiator and organizer of charity events.
therefore, the government of Kazakhstan, on the basis of an order from the head of state, reduced state spending.
for this, more than 246.2 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget.
In this way, we will work in accordance with all standards, "the minister said.
a total of 5.8 million tenge is allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, "he said.
Having considered the submitted documents, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan established their compliance with the requirements for the constitutional law "On Elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," and decided to register Nursultan Nazarbayev as a candidate for president of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, the company "led system media" together with JSC "Welfare Fund" Samruk-kazyna "has been producing LED products in the capital since 2012.
The commissioning of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway in December 2014 expanded the space of regional trade, "the foreign ministry said.
During the meeting, the heads of state central bodies explained the reforms carried out by the government to improve the business climate in the republic.
Congratulating the guest on the beginning of diplomatic work in our country, the Speaker of the House noted that over 23 years of establishing diplomatic ties, our countries have formed a vivid example of interstate relations.
Project "Regional Development of Kazakhstan."
Following the talks, agreements have been reached in the field of pharmaceuticals and construction, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan said.
supporting the policy of the head of state aimed at consolidating the country for a single goal, common interests, a single future is our duty. it is our duty - to support the head of state policy aimed at consolidating the country for a common goal , common interests , common future .
a gift to the national museum. "
as part of the regional development program, projects are being implemented to develop engineering and transport infrastructure in small and large cities of the region.
chemistry, petrochemistry, mechanical engineering, construction, production of materials, food production.
The President of Kazakhstan congratulated the participants on the opening of the new theater and noted the importance of the spiritual and cultural development of society for the unity of the country.
This year, continuing the good tradition, the Eurasian group allocated 1.75 billion tenge to finance economic, infrastructure, social and cultural projects important for Pavlodar region.
Over the year, their number increased by 30 thousand. "
First of all, veterans need social and medical assistance, so the main work is carried out in this direction. most of all veterans are in need of social assistance and health care , so the main work will be directed at this field .
we started the Western European-West Kazakhstan project from Zhambyl region.
and drew attention to the important achievements of Kazakhstan under the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev, especially successes in social and economic development.
for example, the preparation of the programme of the second five-year industrialization plan (idmb for 2014-2019), the action plan for improving the investment climate and supporting industrial enterprises in 2015, recently approved at a government meeting, preparatory measures for its implementation.
During the meeting, it was hoped that the major events organized this year in Almaty, which was declared the capital of the Asian region of Islamic culture in 2015, will give impetus to the further development of Islamic spirituality, harmonization and expansion of humanitarian ties and close cooperation between the countries of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, strengthening friendly relations.
Iranian Foreign Minister also expressed gratitude to Nursultan Nazarbayev for his assistance in conducting negotiations on the Iranian nuclear issue with the six countries.
The construction of the entire north-east-south line and the modernization of Kazakhstan's electric networks are carried out at the expense of the kegoc joint-stock company and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, "B.Sarsenov said.
According to the department, these are ferrous metal pipes, tubing and drilling, flat rolling and unalloyed iron with a length of 600 mm and a thickness of more than 3 mm, oil bitumen, gold powder, Portland cement, pipes, plugs, closures, caps and closure articles, also ready-made foods containing cocoa, phosphoric acid and polyphosphoric acid, cartridges, radiators and their parts made of ferrous metals, polyphosphates, copper alloy wires, copper and zinc based wires and others.
we hope that the return visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to Iran will give a new impetus to economic relations, "said Mohammad Javad zarif.
The website contains information about the EAEU member states: Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia and the priorities of the national economy.
The Vice Minister also noted that the three-level programs for teachers offered by Nazarbayev intellectual schools will increase the salaries of teachers after completing special courses and certification to 30, 70 and even 100 percent.
The increase in income made it possible to begin the construction of 12 new schools instead of emergency ones, to overhaul a number of health facilities and create district hospitals, to reconstruct the Volka-Ata memorial complex and allocate funds for the development of the regional center, "said S. Mustafayev.
For more than 40 years of work biography, the Sabyrgali Kusenuls dedicated to service in the fire department, thanks to ruthless labor, hundreds of fires and other emergencies were eliminated, many human lives were saved, material values ​ ​ were preserved.
56% of them work with 100% load.
according to the plan, the assembly of three types of tractors is provided: ph1002pc-au-99.2 l, rx7620c-au-76 l, rx5920c-au-59 l, the report said.
we will implement the principle of one window, integrate the customs and tax system, "said the head of state.
the visit is aimed at discussing the expansion of trade between Kazakhstan and Norway, the development of ties between companies of the two countries, the involvement of experts in the implementation of joint energy and business projects.
all conditions here meet international standards and requirements, "Saparbayev said.
It was signed by 22 of the 27 members. "
classes between 5-8 and 9-11 took part in the competition.
today applications are submitted and are under consideration, "he concluded.
aa. Idrissov noted that the republic fully adheres to the principle of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and fully fulfils its obligations under the convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons, as well as implements systemic measures to implement United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 1540.
Kazakhstan's white railway is the contractor of the project, and the investor is dubai port world.
During the discussion of the bill on the ratification of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on checkpoints across the Kazakh-Uzbek State border of September 4, 2006, a heated discussion arose.
Issues of cooperation in the monetary, financial, banking and investment spheres were considered at a meeting with the chief executive officer of jpmorgan.
In 2015, the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019 was launched.
the postage stamp was printed at the republican state enterprise "Banknote Factory of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
The road infrastructure program provides for the joint construction of a great silk road in Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, the meeting discussed the areas of cooperation in the field of health and labor migrants.
the laboratory of the medical group, which visits 26 settlements of the island, Kazalin, Syrdarya, Shieli, Zhalovan, Dzhangar, Zhanakorgan regions within a month, is equipped with medical devices and qualified specialists, including a cardiologist, oncologist, therapist, dentist, obstetrician, surgeon, the report said.
The meeting discussed a wide range of bilateral cooperation and prospects for the development of military-technical cooperation between the two countries.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of the Venezuelan Bolivarian Republic nicolas maduro discussed issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, as well as prospects for expanding these ties.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, the Capital Grew highway and the Ekibastuz-Family-Growth power line will be built.
last year, the parade included 3 thousand people, this year their number reached 5 thousand, which is twice as much, "said the major general.
Alley Expo-2017 consists of 7 rows: steam alley, alley of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, white alley "Expo-2014 Astana," alley of nesting, alley of youth and alley of Nazarbayev intellectual schools.
organized by the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the joint-stock company "National Agency for Export and Investment" kaznex invest "and the Singapore Business Federation.
the deficit of the republican budget amounted to 130.7 billion tenge and was fully financed from internal sources, "the head of the Ministry of National Economy added.
we are glad that we have such a law, "the Foreign Minister added.
also in Akmola region - 51, 01% - in Aktobe region - 36.11%, in Almaty region - 60.68%, in Atyrau region - 47.54%, in the East Kazakhstan region - 48.24%, in the Zhambyl region - 49.91%, in the West Kazakhstan region - 40.66%, in the Karaganda region - 43.35%, in Kyzylorda region - 45.56%, in Kostanay region - 56.57%, in Mangistau region - 34.12%, in Pavlodar region - 42.63%, in the North Kazakhstan region - 50.11%, in the South Kazakhstan region - 32.62%, in the city of Astana - 25.46%, in the city of Almaty - 17.25%.
Improving social legislation.
We hope that this will preserve the economic growth of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
For more than 20 years, mksmk has been the main platform for a constant exchange of views on the development of antimonopoly legislation and the state of the economy as a whole in the CIS member countries.
According to Governor of the region Amandyk Batalov, the school "haileybury almaty" provides free education for 10 students who passed the school competition at the expense of entrepreneurs, as well as creating conditions for parents to live in Almaty before graduation.
the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" offers a new economic model of growth.
a new additional mobile government. "
nine creative teams received the titles of "folk," "exemplary."
we intend to become the largest transit and logistics business center in central Asia - a bridge between Europe and Asia, "the senator said.
It should be noted that in the framework of the action "Train" My Kazakhstan, "trains" healthy Kazakhstan, "" health "and" assistance "passed through all regions of the country.
at the meeting, Chairman of the Central Council of the "Organization of Veterans" N.Ozganbaev, First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Zhasuzakov, Vice Minister of Health and Social Development Dr. Argandyk.
a modern autobahn from China passes through our country, "Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized.
Skiing competitions - one of the 5 annual sports games of military-applied national sports and game sports, which started in the armed forces of Kazakhstan at the end of January 2015, will end in October.
According to the Minister, trade between the countries from 2004 to 2014 amounted to 84.9 million dollars.
in particular, among them are the enterprises Turkestan-agro, bear-finu, aldiyar-credit, kordai bucket, rentier bucket, shalkar-credit bucket, and agricultural credit.
in general, the day before the elections, including campaigning, all events were held in accordance with the requirements of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" (hereinafter - the constitutional law).
The order of the Minister of Internal Affairs to take preventive measures and timely response to the development of the flood in the Karaganda, Akmol and North Kazakhstan regions sent groups of forces of the Committee of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, formed of 1,473 people, 205 units of equipment, 53 units of swimming equipment, the report said.
the capital is my city! astana is my city !
device of a new technological sample, which allows to put into operation within 3 months or an inflatable rack under construction in the Shieli region.
The head of state expects to fulfill all the instructions. the head of state expects clear fulfillment of instructions which have been given .
Happy New Year!
During the mission, the mercel held bilateral meetings with the heads of the Prosecutor General's Offices of Italy, Germany, Russia, Hungary, Serbia, Slovakia, Monaco, Moldova, Ukraine, Turkey, as well as international organizations such as the International Association of Prosecutors and the Advisory Council of European Prosecutors.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that as one of the largest investors in the Kazakh economy, he plays an important role in the development project of the Kashagan shell field.
The commander of the military contingent in Western Sahara of the UN mission, Major General Imam Muliono, at a meeting on the results of peacekeeping in 2014, noted the contribution of the Kazakh "blue berets" to ensuring a peaceful life in Western sugar.
liberated Warsaw, Moldova, Belarus, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, "the veteran said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that all the agreements reached by our countries in the framework of bilateral cooperation are successfully implemented.
I am my Kazakhstan. "
11,087 tenge is provided for the state order for training from the national budget.
we saw the factory. we have already seen the plant .
we are meeting with the president of the CCW only to discuss new projects.
Kazakhstan is the main partner of Poland in Central Asia. kazakhstan is a key partner of poland in central asia .
Nursultan Nazarbayev won 97.75% of the vote.
Kazakhstan is a country with a leading economy in central Asia, strategically located at the junction of Europe and Asia. kazakhstan is a country with a leading economy in central asia , and strategically located at the crossroads of europe and asia , " secretary-general of the oecd said .
foreign specialists from jamk university (Finland), Indian university (Great Britain) and Unicef help in this work, "the report said.
the bulk of investments in industry - 76.8%, including in manufacturing - 53.8%, mining - 19.6%, electricity, gas supply, steam and air conditioning - 3.1% and water supply; sewage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution - 0.3%.
Employees of the hospital No. 1 of Karaganda note that thanks to the support of the state and the care of the President of Kazakhstan, medical workers are provided with all the necessary conditions for the qualitative fulfillment of their main task - to preserve and strengthen the health of the population.
all this will not receive and in general will contribute to the popularization of Kazakhstan throughout the world, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Thus, as of April 14, 2015, the Central Election Commission accredited 469 observers from three missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb, cis and shu), two international organizations (the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states and the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries) and 33 foreign countries.
Vladimir Foos familiarized international observers with the peculiarities of the country's electoral legislation, as well as with the work of the central election commission on the preparation of early presidential elections, which noted that "more than a thousand international observers and foreign observers accredited earlier on the proposal of the Foreign Ministry will come to Kazakhstan for these elections, including three international missions and observers from 37 foreign states.
Nursultan Nazarbayev offered very interesting ideas that will continue his election program. nursultan nazarbayev stated interesting proposals .
the viewer will know that the real name of the manshuk is a creature, that in the first days of the front he held the post of secretary, the aliyah of the Moldagulov passed besieged Leningrad, and the khiuaza dospanov became the best navigator-bomber and in 2004 by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. nazarbayev. he was awarded the title "People's Hero."
Kazakhstan Temir Zholy continues to implement the social project of the Jardem train of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Ambassador informed about contacts between the two countries and the achievements of Kazakhstan in the last stages, reported on international projects implemented at the initiative of Kazakhstan, such as the "atomic project" and the "ji global."
Also, at the request of the German side, a meeting of the head of state with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany F.V. Steinmeier is scheduled.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union in the trade, economic and investment spheres, the press service of the Prime Minister reports.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral political, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation, exchanged views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
representatives of the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Health and Social Development made a number of proposals on the prospects for the development of the international Bolashak scholarship.
alma-ata is a city of eternal spring, a pearl of central Asia. almaty is the city of eternal spring , the pearl of central asia .
this year it is planned to complete the construction of a ski base.
we live in a period of market, global world economies, the tasks of the state and state bodies - education, the formation of prospects for the development of our country, "the deputy noted.
the predominant share of the rear worker is 371 aktau, 100 - Karakiyan district, 200 - Mangistau district, 103 - oilman, 111 - indigenous population, 78 people - Zhanaozen.
- this is the Almaty Institute of Nuclear Physics, Prommashcomplekt LLP from ekibastuz, white locomotive plant, from the capital of Motor Roads of Kazakhstan - Construction Technologies LLP, System Research Company LLC and others.
The year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the year of unity and solidarity, the 1st anniversary of the initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev. year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan is the year of unity , peace , harmony , the year of triumph of the model of nursultan nazarbayev .
Sarinzhipov aslan bakenovich - Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
the new center will allow the state bodies of Zhambyl region to system-technical service of colocation, hosting, software as service and software-hardware complex.
soloists - aisulu baissenova (violin), balzhan saparova (flute) and the Astana Opera Symphony Orchestra.
in the nomination of instrumental invention, the first place among the groups was taken by the Kazakh ensemble "magic flute."
during which the officers of the Center for Control and Inspection of Weapons of the Republic of Kazakhstan carried out explanatory work with colleagues from Belarus, Hungary, Germany and France on inspection and informatization issues, as well as its practical use in the troops (as part of the Vienna document 2011).
we are increasing the production of shoots. we have already increased the output of bits .
we believe that in this way social justice will be established, "he concluded.
the unemployment rate was 5.0%, inflation - 7.4%.
Despite the external unfavorable conditions that affected all subjects of Kazakhstan, the company kegoc "in 2014 ended the year with revenue of 8.6 billion tenge.
12, polypropylene granulation workshop of Petrochemical Company Ltd LLP, Pavlodar.
the work was very interesting, "he added.
Governor's offices of the regions were involved in this work.
This year, 630 million tenge was allocated for the restoration of 31 monuments of history and culture, Tuyakbayev said.
This year, the theme of the forum is called "infrastructure - a driver of economic development."
the festival was called "one country one destiny."
the general director of ktze khorgos gateway k.geysen informed diplomats about the construction of the Khorgos - East Gate aea.
In addition, by the end of the year, the minister noted that "kaznex invest" is the development of a new management module with the Singaporean company "jurong."
The construction of a large-scale 500 square meters of north-east-south-west transit "will be completed in 2018, the total cost of the project is 120 billion tenge, the project is of important social importance - about 1,800 jobs will be created during the construction, after the completion of construction 97 people will be provided with permanent jobs," said B. Kazhiev.
According to the Mayor's Office, as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, work will be carried out to provide engineering infrastructure in new microdistricts for 1.3 billion tenge, of which 500 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget.
The state is putting forward important initiatives, among which a new path is the way to the future. "
the ministries of national economy, health and social development, education and science, justice, the Agency of Public Service and Anti-Corruption, the National Bank of Kazakhstan and akimats of all levels.
I am sure that by joint efforts we will intensify bilateral relations and expand multilateral cooperation between our countries, "the congratulation says.
for the same purpose, two "health trains" "health" and "assistance" will enter the western and southern regions from the Almaty and Aktobe stations.
our task is primarily the development of regions. first of all our task is to develop regions .
The year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the year of unity.
An important event will be the opening of the International Community of Surgeons, Gastroenterologists and Oncologists (iasgo) Center for Postgraduate Education to work with the countries of the CIS, Central Asia and the Caucasus.
I am endlessly grateful to our president, we have always supported and supported you.
According to the minister, the issues of stable work of enterprises and employment are priority for all regions.
314,557 thousand tenge was allocated to the city to complete the construction of a kindergarten in the 7th microdistrict.
it is important to attract intelligentsia, discuss relevant works, promote new methods of learning the language, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, there are 586 houses under water, including 44 in the Akmola region, 541 in the Karaganda region (267 of them in the village named after Mustafina), in the area of ​ ​ Petropavlovsk - 1 house, "he said.
there is no crisis in the Kazakh economy. kazakhstan 's economy has no crisis .
they are scheduled to be completed this year.
Then I admired the achievements of Kazakhstan, and when we come to this region, we will create business and establish economic ties for trade, "said Zoran Milanovich.
Kazakhstan is the most important partner of the European Union in the region. kazakhstan is the most important partner of the european union in the region .
The Foreign Ministers of Kazakhstan and Iran also discussed cooperation in such international organizations as the pair, Ansh.
The heads of state of the two countries discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade and economic spheres, as well as prospects for the further development of relations.
In the period June 2014 - April 2015, 75 objects are subject to privatization.
Recall that in the capital, chaired by the President of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the XXII session of the KHA "Eternal Country: One Country - One Fate" is held.
The forum was attended by leading Bahraini companies in petrochemicals, construction, agriculture, hospitality, finance and investment.
for example, "atameken," "day," "dark thread," "" tradition of the Slavic, "officer souls" and others.
discussing the international agenda, Kishanov expressed confidence in the support of the Ulan Bator in Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council and called on Mongolian companies to take part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana.
An adviser to the sara group said that Thai companies crisada pornprapa (krisada phornprapa) consider Kazakhstan as a promising region for doing business.
81 people received borrowed funds in the amount of 192 million tenge.
This year, the theme of the competition was called "a residential quarter for a cold climate - the capital, Kazakhstan."
In order to ensure the growth of investments in the modernization of assets, an investment program worth 6.5 billion tenge was approved for the long-term period for 2015-2019.
that is, we know who specifically works with veterans, disabled people, children, adolescents and others, "the head of kaa added.
prices for food products increased by 1.6%, paid services - by 2.2%.
Mashzavod JSC, Repair and Electrochemical Plant LLC, as well as representatives of the Kemont company, say that cooperation will be profitable, "the report said.
this year's forum was devoted to the topic "Infrastructure is a driver of economic development."
D. Batrashev, in turn, presented the priorities of the country's industrial and innovative development in accordance with the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the new economic policy of Kazakhstan.
this project is a state task of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, which is being implemented by Kazakhfilm.
As noted in ktc, from January 2015, Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan will transfer money in real time through the Internet banking system for white legal entities to provide customers with cargo transportation services.
metal structures (Risk LLC), window and door shapes (fakekunststoffe LLC), energy-saving glazing (kazstroysteclo LLC), sanitary products made of polymer-composite materials (tenus)
in individual enterprises, issues were quickly resolved on the provision of benefits to tariffs for electricity and railway transportation, a temporary ban on the export of scrap iron and gold-bearing raw materials for 5 months, "he added.
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the Chinese Dream program are similar in purpose and timing.
the parties exchanged views on the current situation in the world and signed the document "Action Plan between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania for 2015-2016."
Recall that in the capital, chaired by the President of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the XXII session of the KHA "Eternal Country: One Country - One Fate" is held.
It was attended by more than 400 stependiants of the president's program "Future," laureates of the state prizes "Daryn," "Young Tulpar," winners of international Olympiads.
winners will be awarded with the award "best product of Kazakhstan" and diplomas of I, II, III degrees.
active work was carried out to attract investment in the economy of the region.
investors create their own companies. investors create their companies .
Following the meeting, memoranda were signed between national companies and Kazakhtelecom enterprises to preserve jobs, stabilize production processes, and develop local content.
I am sure that we have the conditions for the further development of our relations in the interests of our countries, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
we are confident that our relations with Kazakhstan will be strengthened with the support of Nursultan Nazarbayev, "the Iranian Foreign Minister said.
5 people in the capital, 25 veterans in South Kazakhstan, 26 veterans in Almaty region.
2015 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for the implementation of the program in 1,557,1, which is 43.1% lower than the amount of the target transfer in 2014.
The total cost of the project is 600 million tenge, 60 people will be provided with permanent work.
It is worth noting that the regional development program until 2020 was developed on the basis of "regional development," the program "Development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020," "Modernization of housing and communal services for 2011-2020," "White Stream" for 2011-2020, "Affordable housing-2020."
In 2015, it is planned to implement 2 projects worth 4.4 billion tenge, which will create 370 jobs, "the minister said.
a total of 188 districts (453 villages) were covered during this period. the program " employment road map 2020 " covered 188 districts ( 453 villages ) .
"We will make the necessary efforts to develop and adopt mutually beneficial documents," the President of Kazakhstan said.
in accordance with the "On Approval of the Rules for Reimbursement of Part of the Costs of Subjects of Industrial and Innovative Activities for the Promotion of Domestic Processed Goods, Works and Services in the Domestic Market" (hereinafter - the rules), approved by Government Decision No. 922 of 9 July 2012 (hereinafter - the rules), the announcement is carried out within one month from the date of initial lighting.
In addition, the heads of the ministries of foreign affairs of Kazakhstan and Iran discussed issues of international and regional security.
The Deputy Prime Minister also held a forum "East Kazakhstan - a comfortable zone for living and demographic development of the family."
85.72% of them in Akmola region, Aktobe region - 78.58%, in Almaty region - 84.95%, in Atyrau region 87.25%, in East Kazakhstan region - 89.45%, in Zhambyl region - 86.04%, in West Kazakhstan region - 79.01%, in Karaganda region 84.73%, in Kyzylorda region - 87.45%, in Kostanay region - 86.75%, in Mangistau region - 76.15%, in Pavlodar region - 82.75%, in the North Kazakhstan region - 86.93%, in the South Kazakhstan region - 87.30%, in the city of Astana - 70.61%, in the city of Almaty - 62.54%.
A. Butkevicius thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his significant contribution to the strengthening and development of bilateral relations.
In addition, a delegation of a national company to the general conference of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in December 2015 met with officials to discuss cooperation on the side event (side events), and under the sustainable energy for the poor initiative, the disgraced International Development Fund (office).
Following the meeting in Kokshetau "Kazmunaigaz" "ak," қazaқstan temir zholy "kazatomprom" ak, "ak" kazakhtelecom "mining and metallurgical concern" Kazakhaltyn "white," kamaz-engineering "" between white, "Kokshetau mineral waters" and other national companies and enterprises signed memoranda on the preservation of jobs.
our homeland is Kazakh. our homeland is kazakhstan .
94.81% of them in Akmola region, in Aktobe region - 85.05%, in Almaty region - 91.17%, in Atyrau region - 92.96%, in the East Kazakhstan region - 93.55%, in the Zhambyl region 92.97%, in the West Kazakhstan region - 90.16%, in Karaganda region 91.12%, in Kyzylorda region - 93.68%, in Kostanay region - 91.27%, in Mangistau region - 88.45%, in Pavlodar region - 90.23%, in the North Kazakhstan region - 93.86%, in the South Kazakhstan region - 93.55%, in the city of Astana - 88.29%, in the city of Almaty - 73.17%.
According to the head of the committee, out of 570 abbreviated forms, 306 fall on BGm, 50 on the national bank, 45 on the Ministry of Finance, 40 on the UEM-30.
we are now on the training ground. we are on the training ground .
in this regard, he expressed hope for the joint development of this area in the framework of bilateral cooperation.
As noted in the press service of Akorda, the parties noted the active and constructive political dialogue between the two countries, and also noted the importance of the clear implementation of the intergovernmental agreement on partnership between Kazakhstan and Germany in the raw materials, industrial and technological spheres, signed in February 2012.
As noted in the Israeli company, all financial issues have been resolved.
at the bureau meeting, the plan of main measures of the Senate of Parliament for 2015 was approved, as well as the plan of measures of the Senate of Parliament to implement the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
The author of the book has been looking for him for more than 15 years, traveled all over Kazakhstan, traveled to the regions where the childhood and youth of the head of state passed, met with relatives, assistants, supporters of the president, he repeatedly met even with the president himself.
It is worth noting that the volume of foreign direct investment in the manufacturing industry over 5 years amounted to 2.9 times more than in previous years.
According to the Prime Minister of Croatia, trade relations with Kazakhstan are still at a low level, but the Croatian Republic is interested in strengthening cooperation.
Currently, KTZ is implementing a number of large infrastructure projects.
we have overcome two great crises.
suppliers of raw materials necessary for the production of disinfectants are leading European chemical concerns, such as akzonobel, basf, huntsman, clariant.
The head of state examined the new sairan station, after which he went on the Moskovskaya metro car.
in accordance with the agreement, Tengizshevroil will allocate funds to kmg nabors drilling company for the purchase of new drilling rigs.
our three countries combine close trade and investment ties. we have close trade and investment ties .
this work should be started now.
machinery and equipment (32.0% of the total imports of the EAEU countries), mineral products (17.7%), metals and products from them (13.4%), chemical products (12.7%), animal and plant products, finished food products (12.5%) are the most imported from the EEO countries.
machinery and equipment (33.5% of the total imports of the EAEU countries), mineral products (21.0%), metals and products from them (12.5%), chemical products (11.3%), animal and plant products, finished food products (11.1%) are most imported from the EAEU countries.
Let this be our help for the economy of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
Recall, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at an expanded meeting of the Akorda government launched the action "Made in Kazakhstan."
flights are operated by airbase-320 and embraer-190 aircraft.
As for the major anniversary dates, this is part of our diplomatic work. as regards major anniversaries , this is the active part of our diplomatic work .
According to them, to date, students will live and function new economic policies that should be properly prepared for this activity.
The President of the International Olympic Committee wished success in the activities of the Head of State in the sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
in the migration growth of the capital, the share of arrivals amounted to 20.2%, South Kazakhstan - 13.6%, Karaganda - 9.8%, Almaty - 9.3%, East Kazakhstan - 8.3% and other regions - 38.8%.
The following documents are submitted to the central election commission in accordance with paragraph 5 of article 59 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan":
For active participation in the race, students of the 3rd grade of secondary school No. 15 altynbek anuarbek, 73-year-old teacher amu zhakhyldy rashbayev, deputy head of the rear department of the region salimgali salykbayev were awarded with diplomas of the branch of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
young florists - iphone, ipad and other gadgets.
presentation of Kazakhstan's model of ethnocultural tolerance and social harmony n.a. The heritage of the ancestors "" is the traditional culture of the Kazakhs, "" the capital is the heart of Eurasia, the future of energy "" are children, "modern innovative Kazakhstan," "," he concluded.
The international competition of the Caspian Sea 2015 is a unique and mature action, as well as an excellent exam demonstrating the combat readiness of the naval forces of Kazakhstan, as well as other participants - Russian, Turkmen and Azerbaijani countries.
this is our respect for the feat of veterans.
Tawfik al-Rabiya expressed confidence in cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of investment and trade.
projects of the state program of industrial and innovative development will be modern production. projects of the state program , of course , it will be the most modern production .
Special rank of Major General of National Security:
We hope that your visit and the visit of the delegation will further deepen relations between our countries, "he said.
the book consists of two sections: "list of information" and "unforgettable memories."
we are ready to provide an international communication platform g-global at the Astana Economic Forum.	we are ready to suggest using the international communicative platform of g-global at the astana economic forum .	1,57
to do this, we will issue a special law, "said the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Considering the unstable situation in the world economy, the head of state noted that this plan works, since the country has a reserve. making reference to the unstable situation in the global economy , the head of state said that this plan will work , due to the country 's reserves .
As of January 1, 2015, the total number of facilities of the system amounted to 3,028 units, of which half - points of trade and food, 35% - LCD, 9% - LCD, 4% - hotels, etc.
In turn, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan stressed that the arrival of the Lithuanian delegation expands cooperation between the two countries.
According to the results, we are a competitive country, "said K. Massimov.
Since May 2014, a project has been implemented to build a high-pressure gas pipeline with the installation of utility facilities and institutions located in the village of Krasny Kordon, low-pressure distribution networks and gas distribution points for residential buildings. since may 2014 the project on building a high-pressure gas pipeline with the installation of gas distribution points and distribution networks of low pressure for residential , municipal facilities and enterprises located in krasnyi kordon were realized .
Round tables on explaining this technical regulation are held in all regions with the participation of more than 100 enterprises, business communities, state bodies, "he said.
Note that this year we will launch the production of a combine harvester in Petropavlovsk together with sampo rozenlew ltd.
The cost of the project is 17.7 billion tenge.	the project 's cost is equal to 17.7 billion tenge .	1,57
President of the Republic of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	president of armenia serzh sargsyan also congratulated nursultan nazarbayev on his reelection as president of the republic of kazakhstan .	1,57
and I am sure that this forum will interest investors in Kazakhstan, expand its attitude towards this region, "the minister said.
This makes me the happy homeland of our fathers, the president of Turkey, "said the Turkish leader.
the victory of Nursultan Nazarbayev is the key to the further prosperity of our country. "
Kazakhstan also participated in the project.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is the solution of all issues.
it was the idea of our president. "
at the plenary sessions of the forum "Sustainable Development in the Republic of Kazakhstan and Green Economy: the Current Situation and Prospects for the Future" and "Expo-2017 - Energy for Sustainable Development," he expressed his intention to share views on the prospects for cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
the actions of our countries coincide in the construction of the Western Europe-Western China highway, we are building gas pipelines and railways, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in this regard, we are also joining the capital. in this regard , we use astana .
As the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev said, "the army is a reliable defense of our sovereign state.
daily from 7:30 to 22:00 to 23:00 pm.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation and the international agenda.
this work will continue, "said Akhmetzhanov.
the current stability and dynamic development of Kazakhstan is thanks to the work of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.	he stressed that  the current stable and dynamic development of kazakhstan is an achievement of president nursultan nazarbayev .
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation were discussed, as well as plans for the upcoming period.
100 athletes from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Italy, Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Estonia, Poland, Russia, China and the Netherlands took part in international competitions, "the report said.
East Kazakhstan Regional Energy Company.
Business roadmap 2020 is aimed at the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
tolerance is the basis of the state policy pursued by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Governor of the region said.
Kyzylorda delegates with the deputy heads of the Department of Agriculture of the Kyzylorda region and the chairmen of 5 farms took part in the II International Exhibition Seminar of Eurasian Agricultural Technologies and Equipment and the International Agricultural Products Fair held in the city of Urumqi, the statement said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the event was organized on the basis of the agreements reached during the 11th Forum of interregional cooperation between the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Russia, held in September 2014.
The program will cover this period, "said the leader of the nation.
46 out of 60 veterans live in the city, 4 in zhanaozen, 4 in the oil depot, 3 in the Tupkaragan district.
the budget received 165.8 billion tenge, including 103.6% in the republican budget, 111.9% in the local budget, the report said.
it is planned to improve the tax and customs administration, "said Kozhamzharov.
including: staff and outpatient rooms and control rooms, service rooms, question-and-answer offices (paired), a landing area for a sanitary helicopter, parking lots for 24 intensive care vehicles and transport repairs.
currently, reconstruction has been carried out in an industrial building and a slaughter shop, 2 million pieces of egg warehouses have been commissioned, fences for birds and an egg machine have been made.
The upcoming year 2015 will be the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War and the Year of Veterans in the CIS countries.
Participation in the presidential elections in Kazakhstan is our constitutional right and civic duty. participation in the election of the president of kazakhstan is our constitutional right and civic duty .
astana led project "- Kazakhstan manufacturer of an energy-saving LED lamp.
This year it is planned to put into operation 600 new production facilities, which will create more than 7 thousand jobs worth 75 billion tenge, the minister said.
Thus, 720,000 tenge were provided with a subsidy for "civil" subsidies, 1,440,000 tenge for "soil and gold" agriculture, 400,000 tenge for "iceberg" and 122,400 tenge for "ringo."
- In a new and difficult period, when there was instability in the world, it is necessary to entrust the head of state n.a. To modernize Kazakhstan and become one of the leading 30 countries of the world.
During the discussion on the expansion of trade and economic ties, the participants were informed about the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev "Nұr the way - the way to the future" and that the Government of Kazakhstan is taking anti-crisis and stimulating measures within the framework of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, as well as about five institutional reforms identified on the initiative of the head of state.
we created the Eurasian Economic Union.
however, he stressed that the constitution adopted in 1995 at a republican referendum is the highest indicator of the fact that the position of civil society and the state is formed in the country, and the state and society as a whole is developing.
This study will be completed in May.
The head of state arrived in Uralsk.
the main subject of leasing, filed and approved by leasing recipients, are tractors - 42%, combines - 22%, compressors - 7.6%, caps - 7.6%, seeders - 3.4%, combined universal suspensions - 3.3% and other equipment and equipment for agricultural production - 11%.
more than 600 billion tenge is allocated from the state budget within the second five-year plan. more than 600 billion tenge will be allocated for the second five-year plan from the state budget , and about 6 billion tenge of private funds .
products worth 17.8 billion tenge were produced.
friendly relations between Lithuania and Kazakhstan, as well as positive initiatives of our countries allow to dynamically develop bilateral cooperation. the friendly relations between lithuania and kazakhstan , as well as positive initiatives in our countries create opportunities for the dynamic development of bilateral cooperation .
In order to implement the presidential order to create a high-quality judicial corps in 2014, the Supreme Court developed a conceptual framework for departmental personnel policy aimed at selecting high-quality specialists and involving them in work, he said.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the head of the region visited the regional blood center under construction, 9 monolithic residential complexes of the Samruk kazyna real estate contractor, a rehabilitation center and a regional drama theater.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, b. ordabayev e. with the current socio-economic and socio-political situation of Kazakhstan, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan familiarized with the basic principles of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future" and informed about such important domestic political measures as the early presidential elections on April 26 this year in Kazakhstan.
front-line, military transport and army aircraft su-25, su-27, su-30, mig-29, mig-31, mig-27, an-26, an-72, tu-134, tu-154, s-295 (airbase military), as well as mi-8, mi-17, mi-171, mi-26, k-32
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "listened with great enthusiasm to the words of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on independence.
in the field of primary education - 148385.0 thousand tenge (0.4%) in the field of services of driver training schools - 99706.0 thousand tenge (0.3%).
45 Kazakh engineers from space enterprises in France and the UK completed a full course of practical internship in the design, assembly and testing of remote earth control satellites and in the reception and processing of space images, "the statement said.
Dear Nursultan Nazarbayev today is victory day. dear nursultan nazarbayev , today is the day of victory .
development of air carriers of the capital and national companies "ktzh" as a major international operator.
Turkey, Iran, India, Mongolia, Azerbaijan could become the next potential partners at this stage, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Responsible for drafting and further finalizing draft laws on the ratification of the Protocol Amending and Supplementing the Protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan on checkpoints across the Kazakh-Uzbek State border of 4 September 2006.
Total investments - KZT916.865 bln.
Astana expo-2017 "in May, a project of the g-global online forum will be launched, at which further events will be discussed online," said St. Gerbek.
Saparbayev berdybek mashbekovich - Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
these funds will be used for the modernization of communal infrastructure, the development of water supply and sanitation systems, the completion of credit housing, the attraction of engineering communications, the construction of a kindergarten for 280 places in the city of aksu, as well as the development of breeding livestock and agricultural exports.
villagers were able not only to receive advice on such programs as "Business Roadmap 2020," "employment 2020," "rash," but also to submit applications for participation in the programs "business adviser," "business adviser" - 2, "business relations," "school" young entrepreneur. "
Almaty is advancing the entire sector of the economy. almaty is on the leaders in almost all sectors of the economy .
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of bilateral relations, exchanged views on international and regional issues.
at the end, the head of state wished the participants of the meeting success and well-being.
of which 79 people are doctors of sciences, 114 people are candidates of sciences, 7 people are doctors of sciences, these are technical, pedagogical, medical, agricultural, economic, legal and other sciences.
in Kazakhstan, when creating the air capital, aviation was completely destroyed.
the creation of the Government for Citizens State Corporation, which will become a single public service provider modeled on centrelink in Canada and canada service in Australia.
Today, 53 Kazakh scientists in such promising scientific areas as nanotechnology, robotics, oil and gas field research, hydrodynamics, genetic engineering, biology of cancer-causing cells, DNA reproduction and mutagenesis are successfully working in well-known scientific centers abroad.
For the main activities of samruk-energy group enterprises in 2014, plans were implemented for the production, transmission and sale (distribution) of electricity, coal mining.
we are satisfied with the development of bilateral relations with Riyadh, we are interested in the development of bilateral cooperation, "said the Speaker of the Senate.
The construction works involved 16 excavators, 2 small trucks, 4 manipulators, 2 camases, 7 cars.
optimization of investment programs does not concern large and significant muiidb 2 programs, the Nұrly zhol program, expo-2017 objects, "said A. Satkaliev.
there is great potential for cooperation between our countries.
employment and labour disputes - 21.1%.
Mongolia is our neighbor, our longtime colleague and old friend. mongolia is our neighbor , our traditional partner and our old friend .
one of the most famous classical works - p. Concert No. 1 for piano with the Tchaikovsky Orchestra will become the decoration of the evening, the piano part will be performed by the People's Artist of Russia Denis Matsuev.
By building a strong economic foundation, we strengthen friendship, good-neighborliness and trust between our countries and peoples, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, it was noted that in 2017-2018. letter from the President of Kazakhstan to the Prime Minister of Malaysia on support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
In 2015, 81 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund for the development of industrial infrastructure, including the "lead-east gate" in Atyrau region and Almaty region, "the vice minister said.
As a result, our competitiveness is growing, "the Prime Minister said.
we are ready for further diversification of the economy and economic cooperation with Kazakhstan, "the telegram says.
the project also introduces clarifying norms in the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on energy conservation and energy efficiency improvement," "on state property" and "on permits and notifications."
TZh rescue forces: more than 20 thousand buildings uniting fire, operational-rescue, aviation, water-rescue, medical services ensure the safety of our citizens daily, "said the deputy chairman of the TZh committee, Serik aubakirov.
this will allow first of all to develop 37 commodity-dairy farms under construction and reconstruction and to provide a full supply of feed for citizens involved in the production of milk of individual possessions.
corruption is a direct enemy of national security. corruption is the direct threat of the national security .
we intend to deepen our cooperation in every possible way, "he said.
The asset of the assembly of the region is five thousand people, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
At the expense of the company, a medical center, a kindergarten, a tennis center, an indoor pool, a martial arts palace are being built, dozens of other social projects are being implemented, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan is positioned as an activist of users of world political experience. kazakhstan actively studies and applies the world 's political practices .
it will create a big social effect, "he said.
we learned to work with employers. we have learned how to work with employers .
Work on this project was carried out together with the Shell and Kazmunaigaz concern.
the project consists of two components - investment and technical assistance. the project consists of two components : investment and a component of technical assistance .
The background goal is to describe the rights and obligations of stateless persons protected by international law, in particular the 1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons, as well as the main reasons for the lack of citizenship, the press service of the Senate reports.
In March 2014, at the art festival dedicated to the celebration of the Nauryz holiday, held in Turkey, Turksoy was awarded a special diploma of an international organization.
The sides discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Caricom in the political, economic, cultural and humanitarian, tourism spheres, as well as the possibility of joint participation in promising projects.
Over the years of independence, we have formed a new Kazakhstan, brought up a new generation, increased the economy, increased incomes of the population. over the years of independence we have created new kazakhstan , raised a new generation , increased the economy and incomes .
During the years of Kazakhstan's independence, the volume of oil and gas condensate increased 3 times, from 25 million tons in 1991 to 80.8 million tons in 2014, the Minister said.
funds are constantly allocated from the budget for the development of the state language.
Speaking as the main speaker of the forum, Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Yerlan sagadiyev informed the forum participants about the national plan "100 steps," the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2018, the program "Nұrly zhol" for 2015-2017, measures to support investors and opportunities of Kazakh-Austrian cooperation within the localization of production.
subsidization will be carried out as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020.
we choose the president of our country.
decrease is registered in Akmola, West Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Mangistau, Pavlodar and East Kazakhstan regions.
Recall that in 2014, the first international tournament "Kazakhstan open 2014," held in the capital, gave our athletes 5 tickets to the Games in Indhon (South Korea).
Arystanbek Mukhamediuly - Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
in addition, we must create airlines to expand domestic flights, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In this regard, an electronic government has been formed in Kazakhstan today.
I vote for a prosperous Kazakhstan, for the future of my children. i voted for a prosperous kazakhstan , for the future of my children .
development and implementation of the national project "New Future."
Nazarbayev University and intellectual schools work successfully.
it will give impetus, "he said.
At the same time, the volume of grain crops will be brought up to 48.1%, fodder crops - up to 22%, sunflower and oilseeds - from 30.6% to 25%.
Within the framework of the forum, close contacts have been established with such large international organizations as the Paudb, the European Union, the organization of economic cooperation and economic partnership and development (eadu), and the international financial organization (ifc).
there will be shown biographies of veterans, feature films, "he said.
in addition, work was carried out to develop the transport infrastructure of the city. in addition , the work for the development of transport infrastructure is carried out in the city .
During this event, a wide range of issues of political, economic, trade, investment and inter-parliamentary cooperation was discussed.
At the request of Kazakhs living in China, Turkey, Mongolia, in September 2014, the presentation of this monograph was held at the central national university in Beijing, "the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
As follows from the report, the study, consisting of 304 pages, written as general information about Kazakhstan, which reflects the personal attitude of the author to the country, which received the opportunity to get acquainted with the psychology, philosophy, history, mentality, traditions and traditions of our people.
next year we will expand and create a coefficient for public and private partnerships, "the minister said.
that is, the borrower, having received in the first year no more than 18 months of the loan (this time reaches the sowing, collection and sale of grain crops), next year, without collecting documents, will be able to receive a loan from the fund for the next year under this line.
we chose five sites where we traveled, "he said.
this measure is important for all States, as they must improve national antitrust laws in their countries. this event is important for all countries , because it 's necessary to improve our own national antitrust legislation .
Kazakhstan was taking effective measures in that regard. kazakhstan has taken effective steps in this direction .
high potential between Kazakhstan and Turkey.
Development of single-industry towns in 2012-2020, "155.8 million tenge was allocated to subsidize loans, allocate state grants and open new enterprises from the republican budget.
we are confident that Kazakhstan, under your leadership, is waiting for a period of new achievements, economic development and prosperity. we are confident that under your strict guidance kazakhstan will reach new developments , economic progress and prosperity .
domestic and international manufacturers of medicines and medical products, distributors and representatives of retail trade at the level of March 1, 2015 approved prices and assumed social responsibility for maintaining prices for 200 items of commonly used medicines and medical products.
During the war years, Kazakhstan produced 85% of all-Union lead, 90% of copper, 8/1 of coal, 60% of molybdenum, 70% of polymetal. during the war , kazakhstan gave over 85 % of the all-union smelting of lead , 90 % copper , 1 / 8-union coal mining , 60 % molybdenum , and 70 % of the base metals .
this is a beautiful new country of culture. this is a great new temple of culture .
Alexander Lukashenko congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his election victory, the report said.
The program expanded joint work in the fields of trade and investment, industry, agriculture, transport and logistics, tourism and others.
these are mainly traditional areas - Central Asia, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Iran - 2.1 million tons.
we are also interested in the development of satellites, the development of telecommunications and rocket production in Kazakhstan, "he said.
I'm sure we made the right choice, "he said.
the company is the owner of the prize of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of "gold quality."
therefore, we must monitor the situation and take appropriate measures, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is the results of last year, "said D. Argandykov.
the lowest prices were recorded in the cities of zhezkazgan, taraz, taldykorgan, where 1 square meters. m - 90 thousand tenge, "he said.
Construction work began in November last year.
It is necessary to reduce customs rates and leave only three: 0.5 and 12, "said the head of state.
But I think that in the coming years we will reach the average international standard, "he said.
At the end of 2014, the plan in the amount of KZT6,219.4 million was implemented by 100%, the report said.
The Board of Directors approved the development plan of Samruk-kazyna JSC for 2015-2019.
Abdikalikova reported on the implementation of Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the program "Nұrly zhol" and the state program of industrial and innovative development.
The main activity of the center's specialists is to conduct consultations and clarifications there within the framework of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
heidelbergcement is the largest investor of Germans in Kazakhstan. heidelbergcement is the largest german investor in kazakhstan .
within a month, I instruct the Government to supplement the "Nұr zhol" programme and forward it for approval.
this is a great victory, a great business for future generations, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the minister, this concept was developed in stages.
December 16, 2014 marks the 23rd year of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan. december 16 , 2014 kazakhstan marks the 23rd anniversary of independence .
I would say to representatives of all gentle sections of Kazakhstan society who sit in this hall and, without any exaggeration, our national wealth is you, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Kazakhstan has strengthened on the political map of the world because of its global views. kazakhstan mended its fences at the political world map due to its global vision .
we signed the agreement, "he said.
we invite everyone to a museum night. "
Recall that the international competition "commonwealth warrior," which determines the military-professional skill of military personnel among friendly armies, has been held annually since 2009 by decision of the Council of Defense Ministers of the CIS member states.
basterbolat askarbekovich - Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The head of the region, supporting the plans of the akim of the district K. Usherbayev, noted that from the second half of 2015, gas supply to the Syrdarya district will also be carried out.
I am glad that my father successfully passed through us, and from the stories about the war I understand how important it is to live in a country where peace, respect, friendship reigns, "says another participant in the action - about his brother Lieutenant Colonel Aldibaev:" I know that my brother went to the front in 1941.
In addition, 646.9 million tenge was allocated at the next xxxv session of the regional maslikhat at the expense of the budget, it is planned to purchase 100 apartments for orphans in the Noble Dream residential complex in Karasai district for these funds.
The head of the region presented large mothers with state awards - "golden collegium" and "silver collegium."
In honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory and in honor of the soldiers who defended their native land, planting apple trees at this school is of great importance, "said the director of the Astana Expo 2017 mass events organization department, the managing director.
glass factory is very important for the economy of the region. construction of a glass factory is very important for the regional economy .
it is very important for our state to hold early presidential elections. for our country , the early elections of the president are important .
For three weeks, a Swiss construction instructor with 50 years of experience in this field at the Atyrau Industrial College and Atyrau Energy College shared with German hoiser teachers special aspects of the profession.
Kazakhstan occupies the leading place in this list in Central Asia.
During the meeting, the national coordinators of the SHU member states considered the preparations for the next summit of the heads of state and other events of 2015, planned in the city of Ufa from July 9 to 10 this year.
I invited all members of my family to take part in the presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said the pensioner, chairman of the Council of Veterans of Astana.
The transition to a new building with an area of ​ ​ 3200 square meters will expand ophthalmological treatment and diagnostic services, as well as introduce the most advanced technologies in such areas as offshore surgery and ocular correction.
To convene the twenty-second session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on April 23, 2015 in Astana on the agenda "Eternal Country: One Country - One Destiny."
views on many international and regional issues are close between our countries.
one country - one festival of fate was held in all areas of the region.
In 2012-2014, on the basis of an order from the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences carried out work to further improve and supplement dictionaries published in 1999-2000, developed a 30-volume package of branch Kazakh-Russian, Russian-Kazakh terminology dictionaries covering all areas of science and technology, production and culture.
60 international treaties have been ratified, including 8, 9 international universal contracts, "K.Sultanov said.
20.4 billion tenge has been invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
The initiative created within the framework of the EAEU belongs to Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
Tokayev informed the Czech diplomat about the main issues of the program "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms" and the new economic direction "Nұrly zhol," noting the great opportunities that open up to foreign investors in connection with these programs.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the 70th anniversary of the great victory. i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the 70th anniversary of the great victory .
today we vote for growth, for the prosperity of Kazakhstan. today , we vote for prosperity , progress of kazakhstan .
The holiday was held in the new administrative center of the city on the "March Square," combining the bas-relief scene "my aul is a golden cradle" and the architectural and decorative compositions "Kokparsha," "maiden," "golden eagle."
we created today's state, now we give and are popular.
According to the committee, the adoption of the above-mentioned policy documents will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the post-2015 disaster risk reduction programme.
for Kazakhstan, the production of electricity, railways, food products, industry is important.
The theme of the forum this year is "infrastructure is a driver of sustainable economic growth."
In addition, it should be noted that in the near future the Kazakh air force will be replenished with highly maneuverable fighters of the Su-30cm 4 + + generation, the defense capability of the country's air borders will significantly increase.
During the event, the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev addressed the audience, the capital of Kazakhstan - the capital, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
in its construction, the Spanish technology of rufepa was used.
security in Central Asia is a priority, "said K. Tokayev.
China's "one belt, one road" initiative and our "beam road" have a lot in common.
In order to further implement presidential decree No. 757 of 27 February 2014 "On measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan," a new methodology for organizing a risk assessment system in controlling state bodies will be developed and introduced into the presidential administration by April 2015.
Time is fast, and we have built a new state, that is, a new state that was not on the world map, "the head of state said.
4 . Akims of the regions, cities of Astana and Almaty to ensure timely compilation and reliability of lists of citizens who have the right to vote, to provide comprehensive assistance to central, territorial and precinct election commissions in resolving issues of organizing and holding early presidential elections.
During the event, along with festive and charitable events in the city of Aktobe, congratulations and congratulations were organized to 132 war veterans, the presentation of monetary remuneration from the city education department, work in this direction continued with congratulations to veterans of the house.
thanks to the personal involvement of the Consul General of the Russian Federation, the Russian philological, scientific and methodological research received a large innovative prize - a library with 175 titles, most of which are especially valuable and timely.
each meeting is a major social project. "
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meetings a. Shokybayev and the Minister for Km of Time and Islam Gais and Mubarak al-Kauari and Ibrahim Saleh on behalf of the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev were presented with invitations to the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015.
K. Dzhakupov spoke about the peculiarities of the modern development of Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy initiated by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the "best way."
legislation is aimed at bringing into line with the new law "On the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
The competition approved 4 nominations: "energy-efficient cottage," energy-efficient apartment building "," energy-efficient social facility "and" energy-efficient commercial facility. "
the plant is one of the advanced projects of the industrial and innovative development program. the plant is one of the best projects of the program of industrial and innovative development .
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Alexander Lukashenko agreed to continue discussions during the meeting of the Presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia in the capital in March.
bulb onions rose by 39.8%, potatoes - by 22.5%, cabbage - by 21.8%, table carrots - by 16.4%, table beets - by 14.4%.
Financing issues are being resolved, "he said.
In addition, new projects will be implemented this year. in addition , this year 's new projects are realized .
More than 9 thousand members of the labor collectives of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP - miners, metallurgists, workers of enrichment enterprises - also noted the need to provide the President of Kazakhstan with a new confidence mandate to ensure the further dynamic development of the country.
The meeting was attended by the heads of central state bodies, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, NUH Kazagro, the Development Foundation, kdb primeminister.kz.
therefore, we must increase cooperation with you, "he said.
i The investment project will be implemented in 3 stages through eurasia ligeco company LLP.
According to N. Nazarbayev, there was no other economy for Kazakhstan.
In 2012, the constitutional law improved the rules relating to the procedural and other competence of the supreme court, and a number of changes took place regarding the structure of the regional courts, the internal affairs of the courts and the judicial board.
the most represented specialties in the number of students in master's studies are social sciences, economics and business - 30.1%, technical sciences and technologies - 16.8%, education - 12.1%.
As part of the competition, parents of children from 3 to 11 years old needed to sign up for pages on social networks of Kazakhtelecom, get videos with children on the topics of "Internet," "telecommunications," "communications," "computer," "tablet."
after laying flowers at the monument, the head of state talked with veterans of war and labor.
58 teams (about 391 Olympians) from 15 countries of the world took part in the Olympics: Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia and Mongolia.
During the presidential elections, the Institute of Democracy held a nationwide ehit poll. during the election of the president of kazakhstan " institute for democracy " held nationwide exit-poll .
this year, the government will allocate 101 billion tenge for the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program.
Recall that the Ministry of Education and Science, within the framework of the project set by the Head of State in the Address to the People "Nұrly zhol," implements the task of training specialists and ensuring the connection of the economy with education on the basis of 10 educational institutions.
In the same year, this project was supported as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
Financing of the project continues with the national holding Kazagro.
Kalmukhanbet Nurmukhanbetovich Kassymov - Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
development of the industry is carried out within the framework of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development, implementation of investment projects of the Map of development of light industry and industrialization for 2010-2014. in general , the development of industry is implemented within the state program of forced industrial and innovative development , sectoral program of development of light industry for 2010-2014 and starting the investment projects of the industrialization map .
32 original collections of abay works, manuscripts, historical photographs related to the topic, thanks of foreign ambassadors, reviews, information about translators, letters from translators collected in the museum fund.
Thus, the funds were distributed as follows: to the republican budget - 730 million tenge, to the regional budgets - more than 745 million tenge, holdings - 38 567 million tenge, akk - 2 915 million tenge.
included in the new first aid kit in the car: 3% hydrogen oxide solution (1 vial), sterilized gauze bandages 5m * 10 cm (1 thing), gauze bandages not sterilized 5m * 10 cm (1 thing), gauze bandages not sterilized 7m * 14 cm (1 pc), sterilized medical gauze napkins (1 pc), sterile packaging bag (1 pc.), 50 g medical hygroscopic sterile wool (1 pc.), hematopoietic bundle (1 pcs), bactericidal leukoplaster (5 pcs), medical leukoplaster (1 pcs), bandage with elastic tube No. 1, 3, 6 gloves medical, not sterilized (1 pair), arch-shaped scissors (1 piece).
To this end, I propose to create a state corporation "government for citizens," the head of state said.
As Yessimov noted, the city budget amounted to 356 billion tenge, which is 50 billion tenge more than last year.
It is noted that the plant uses modern technologies of Italian companies "total daily management group" and Serbian "mag creative."
Germany is one of the leading political and trade partners of the EU countries.
Thus, as of April 17, 2015, the Central Election Commission accredited 713 observers from three missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb, cis and shu), two international organizations (the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states and the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries) and 35 foreign states.
from the Baltic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean, from the Arctic to the tien Shan, about 180 million citizens of the Union's member states receive equal opportunities for doing business, free trade and employment, using communications, expanding interregional cooperation and humanitarian cooperation.
this is a special election. this is an unusual election .
we have now embarked on a new programme. now we start a new program .
According to the head of the department, within the framework of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" it is planned to transfer 6.4 billion tenge from the national fund of the republic to the budget of Pavlodar region.
The Public Services Act provides for public control over the quality of public services.
According to B.Sagintayev, today the Kashagan project, together with the operators of the North Caspian project, is undergoing restoration work, commercially all issues on oil production have been settled and by the end of 2016 it is planned to resume commercial oil production.
the parties also discussed issues of gender equality, including in the framework of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995.
the task of the head of state is to strengthen the national economy for infrastructure projects. the presidential order is to improve the national economy through infrastructure projects .
For our part, we invite famous and famous people. "
in particular, members of the government discussed the improved project of the State Program for Infrastructure Development "Nұrly zhol" for 2015-2019.
according to the information, the work is carried out together with the organization of veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the international foundation "Eurasian Media Forum," the public foundation "Way of Life," the telecom operator "beeline" and other partner organizations.
in total, 322 thousand people are planned to be reached in the republic this year, 7.5 thousand people in the city. on the whole , in the republic this year we want to cover about 322 thousand people , and in the city - 7500 people .
subsidies are provided within the framework of the agro-industrial complex development program in the Republic of Kazakhstan "Agrobusiness-2020" for 2013-2020.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan nominated Karim Massimov as Prime Minister.
Made in Kazakhstan, "made in Kazakhstan" is what we need, "the head of state said.
At the same time, according to the relevant committee, in terms of average per capita nominal monetary income of the population in December 2014, Atyrau region, Astana city and Mangistau region occupy leading positions, where this indicator is 2.1-1.9 times higher than the average republican level.
the line of life held in honor of the 70th anniversary of the Victory, "the head of the North Kazakhstan region and the chairman of the Council of Veterans met with every 10 war veterans.
This year we traditionally hold the V Congress of World and Traditional Religions. this year we traditionally hold the v congress of leaders of world and traditional religions .
The Minister also got acquainted with the work of the West Kazakhstan Engineering Company. the minister also acquainted with the work of west kazakhstan engineering company .
Also today, heads of state bodies and members of parliament will visit the Abai rural district of the Saryagash district and the village of Kokterek, and on December 20 will take part in the opening ceremony of the greenhouse in Shymkent.
there are all conditions for sports. there are all conditions for the activity .
I know that this is only the beginning of cooperation, "said V. Vinnik.
11 residential buildings worth 175.2 million tenge were repaired in 2011-2012, 12 residential buildings worth 250 million tenge were repaired in 2014, two more multi-storey buildings are planned to be repaired in 2015, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
The performance of the garden bird was written specifically for the Kazakhstan Theater of Nations.
One of the issues considered on the agenda of the meeting of the CIS Federation Council is the sending of the CIS representation as an international observer to the presidential elections in Kazakhstan on April 26, 2015, the report said.
the project is funded by the European Union and implemented by a consortium managed by gdsi limited (Ireland).
As you know, on the eve of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, in our city, as part of the Veteran My Veteran campaign, houses are being repaired for 76 veterans and disabled people of the Great Patriotic War who require housing repairs.
Norway, Switzerland, Iceland, Lihnestein and New Zealand. work is in progress with norway , switzerland , iceland , liechtenstein , new zealand .
According to the Senate, the adjustment of the forecast of the socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019, taking into account preliminary data on the development of sectors of the economy for 2014 and the current situation in world commodity markets for main export products, is the basis for clarifying the republican budget for 2015.
More than 11 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget in 2014 to finance DKZ-2020.
During the working trip, the activities of the Samruk-Kazyna group of companies were presented, information was presented on the international specialized exhibition Astana Expo-2017, the construction of the green quarter in the capital and the kaz pv project for the production of solar panels.
During the meeting, topical issues of the international agenda were discussed: the situation in Ukraine, the Iranian nuclear program, the stabilization of Afghanistan, the current situation in Central Asia, the situation in the Middle East, the fight against international terrorism, etc., during the meeting they discussed the issues of the international agenda, such as the development of the situation in the ukraine , iran 's nuclear program , the stabilization of afghanistan , the current situation in central asia , the situation in the middle east , the fight against the international terrorism and others .
The project cost amounted to 3.1 billion tenge.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, including political, economic, trade and investment, scientific and technical cooperation, consular and legal issues, relations between Central Asia and the eu, exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
According to the akim of the district, 7 million tenge was allocated to organize work on the study of the poet's work, to collect through the archive poems that did not see the previously printed page, as well as documentaries based on the poet's life and work.
Speakers in the section were the Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan, the managing director of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan and the national managing holding Baiterek, as well as the managing director of National Export and Investment Agency kaznex invest JSC.
The public association "Ecobeine" within the framework of international projects "spare" and "clean energy" began the implementation of the first project "School, guardian of children and the environment" in Kazakhstan.
today we are implementing capital-Almaty, capital-growth (eastern Kazakhstan), central-western projects.
According to the conclusion, the agreement affects the relationship of keeping secret information, in which the commissions, state authorities of the parties, natural and legal persons of the parties participate, without taking into account state secrets in the framework of the Agreement on Uniform Rules and Competition Procedure of December 9, 2010.
The events and the program of the next xxiii session of the assembly, scheduled for June 2015, of the international conference "Introduction of advanced technologies in construction and housing and communal services" were also discussed.
Of course, we want Kazakhstan to become the same country as Singapore in central Asia.
we highly appreciate this, "said the head of state.
the main goal of the teams was to find "people," "Kazakhs," "wounded," "dangerous goods."
Shu has great economic, financial, energy, transport and scientific and technical potential. sco has the enormous economic , financial , energy , transport and scientific and technical potential .
The Prosecutor General accepted 36 applicants through videoconferencing, which is a convenient and effective method of personal reception in terms of saving time and material resources, the department said.
A competition is held on 7 nominations: "" the M g_l_k ate the best in the field of promotion of the national idea"; the best in the field of promoting a healthy lifestyle and providing social assistance to the population ";" the best in the development of Kazakhstani patriotism among youth "; best in the field of promoting family values ​ ​ and gender policy ";" best in the field of promoting citizenship ";" capital of expo 2017. "
According to him, the friendship association will become an important tool for promoting mutual partnership between the two countries.
we are glad to meet the first column of these cadets, "he said.
Of these, in the second stage, 4 residential buildings with 747 apartments will be provided to all categories of citizens on the white tukb line, 3 residential buildings with 240 apartments, of which 2 residential buildings with 120 apartments will be provided to young families and the remaining one, that is, 120 apartments, to all categories of citizens on the white line.
I instructed to open a credit network of Kazakhstani and Hungarian companies. i have already instructed to the exim bank to open credit lines for the companies that want to cooperate with kazakhstan and hungary .
The briefing will be attended by the managing director of the National Welfare Fund "Samruk-kazyna" darkhan kaletayev, the general director of the Eurasian Media Forum ruslan dzhemkov, the director of the public fund "Way of Life 24" ernar nurbekov, the chairman of the republican public association "Organization of Veterans of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Astana Economic Forum may become a necessary platform for this project, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to the Senate, the protocol was drawn up on September 7, 2012 in Astana, which provides for amendments and additions to the list of documents intended for temporary stay, transit and departure of citizens in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Uzbekistan.
He was awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of the II degree, medals "For the Defense of Moscow," "For the Victory over Germany," "For Military Merit," and the medal "Honorary Veteran of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the high level of political dialogue and economic cooperation between the two countries.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the specifics of the project is that on special devices where temperature is controlled, fish are continuously produced, and the maturation time of fish in it is reduced by 2 times.
I said that this year there will be difficulties.
the opening of a modern fire fighting facility will provide fire protection for the territory with a population of more than 130 thousand people, as well as the infrastructure of growing public buildings and the production sector, the report said.
To achieve the task of becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world - the regulation of migration processes is an important area of ​ ​ the country's socio-economic development, providing the needs of the economy with highly skilled personnel by attracting foreign workers, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov.
The international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 will last 3 months from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
introduced cdma/evdo communication standards (evolution data optimized) aimed at providing communication in the rural area.
The project cost is 1.9 billion tenge.
1,649 preschool children (48.6 per cent) and 5,540 school-age children (63 per cent) were enrolled in special education.
Specialists from Europe are involved in the construction, a joint venture "samruk kazyna - united green" has been created.
the city opened the avenue named after the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the boulevard "Kazakhstan," the park "Friendship of Kazakhstan and Turkey," as well as the audience "Kazakhstan" at the university "Nevshekhir."
everything depends on the head of state, because not all leaders rule the country, there is evidence in the world community, "said a pensioner, a member of the city council of veterans of the capital, who came to cast his vote at the capital's polling station No. 23, in the presidential elections.
During the meeting, Deputy Akim of the region E. Aitakhanov reported on the main results of work for 2014 and plans of work of the Assembly of South Kazakhstan region and on holding the kha year in the region.
The head of the city noted the optimal indicators of the economic development of Almaty, stressing that the largest share of the country's gross domestic product - 20% and 27% of taxes are in Almaty.
of which 3832 kindergartens (1261 private), 4635 mini-centers (200 private).
The Supreme Court, as part of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, has developed a draft comprehensive plan to combat corruption in the judicial system for 2015.
Samala kindergarten was built as part of the Balapan state program and is equipped with modern equipment.
During the meeting of the Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the deputies discussed the decisions of the December session of the Council of Deputies and the situation in the responsible zone of the organization, got acquainted with the priorities of the chairmanship of the Republic of Tajikistan in 2015, considered the results of the winter session and other issues of parliamentary cooperation in the framework of the discussion.
Also, as part of the exhibition, a meeting of the president of the joint-stock company "ktj" uk "askar mom with the leaders and representatives of the company" general electric "was held.
We hope that cooperation will be positive and effective, "he said.
Also, the Damu Foundation presented a website for entrepreneurs "doing business kazakhstan."
To date, there are 161 private clinics in the republic, of which 154 is a mixed type, 7 is a children's clinic (in the city of Almaty - 5, in the Mangistau region - 1, in the South Kazakhstan region - 7).
this will provide preschool education to 77% of children in 2015 and 100% in 2020, "the minister assured.
in the program of the concert of pianists of Kazakhstan, the works of famous masters of world classical music sachmanin, mozart, beethoven, chopin "moderato," "adagio sostenuto," "allegro scherzando" and others were performed.
According to reports, on April 8 of this year, the repair of 26 houses of veterans was completed, the repair of 24 houses of veterans was completed, repairs are underway in 26 houses of veterans.
This is a large-scale development plan for the coming years, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
wsi is an international movement that promotes working professions.
in the near future, we want to increase their number to 12 thousand. And we assume that bilateral joint actions between Kazakhstan and Hungary will make a good contribution to work in this direction, "said P. Yyarto.
The main organizers of the event are media organizations: Central Communications Service, Kazkontent JSC, Khabar JSC, Kazakhstan Ktrk JSC, Kazmedia Center LLP.
It was also decided to hold the next meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in Dushanbe on the eve of the session of the Collective Security Council in early autumn 2015.
we do all this for our citizens, for people of work, "the head of state said.
At this conference, a doctoral student of the 2nd degree in food technology of the Faculty of Engineering and Technology of Shakarim State University of Semey presented his work (poster) on encapsulation of probiotics in polymer complexes.
During the meeting, the company's activities in Kazakhstan, their joint projects and prospects for the development of bilateral cooperation were discussed.
Recall that in 2014, under the new mechanisms, a competition was held for the conclusion of long-term contracts with domestic manufacturers for the supply of medicines, following which 13 new long-term contracts were signed.
"For education, for the education of Belarusians," "For the education of the course," "For the victory over Germany."
the personnel got acquainted with personal documents and awards of the front-line soldier, among which the Order "Eternal War," "40 years of the Great Patriotic War," the medal "50 years of the Great Patriotic War," the Medal "50 years of inspiration of the USSR," the badge "Veteran of the Great Patriotic War 1941-1945" were awarded immediately after the victory over the fascist enemy.
Hungary is a country that is an important pillar in Europe for us, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
during the conference "Constitution is the pillar of the country," "Constitution is my greatness," "Constitution is the guarantee of the future," "Tribunes of independence," "Do you know your right?" reports were heard on topics.
the parties discussed issues of trade and economic cooperation, investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.
The planned visit of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev to Iran will give a new impetus to bilateral cooperation between our friendly countries, M. Zarif said.
in particular, the front-line soldier "red star," "1941-1945. The Great Patriotic War," "for the defense of Stalingrad," "to the Kursk defenders" and other medals.
According to the Ministry of Energy, the akimat of West Kazakhstan region signed 20 tripartite memoranda aimed at supporting domestic producers totaling 47 billion tenge between producers of goods and services and peasant entities that are consumers.
the tender task was prepared in close cooperation with the national company Astana Expo-2017.
this is a project "terrace" youth "(a detachment of 20 people), engaged in planting fruit-berry and ornamental plants on the banks of the Irtysh River; To conduct concert programs in remote areas of the region, the Ertis Stars detachment was created from the amateur youth of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan (the detachment consists of 15 people), "the report said.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, today the reconstruction of the Samara-Shymkent highway (from the border with the West Kazakhstan region to the Kyzylorda border) with a total length of 684 km has been completely completed.
we must contribute to the implementation of this program, "said the chairman of the Senate.
The conference was attended by scientists from Aston University, Birmingham University, Edinburgh University and other countries, including France (givaudan), Sweden, Belgium, Czech Republic.
Sultanov spoke about the socio-economic goals of the country within the framework of the "Kazakhstan-2050" strategy, the "Nұrly zhol" program, the priority of the Kazakh market in the conditions of the Eurasian Economic Union, measures to form an investment climate in Kazakhstan, as well as state measures to strengthen interethnic and interfaith agreements.
All residents and guests of the capital came to the exhibition and became witnesses themselves, "he said.
After 30 years, Advisor to the Consul General of the Russian Federation, Consul Dmitry Ignatiev presented the long-awaited award to the son of the first Minister of Defense, Major General of the Medical Service, the Ministry of Defense said.
In 2014, freight transportation along the transport corridors of Kazakhstan amounted to about 18 million tons, including 16.1 million tons by rail, 1.5 million tons by vehicles, 100 thousand tons by water supply, and transportation revenues amounted to 1 billion US dollars.
In 2015, the priority plans included the continuation of the reconstruction of the Shchetpagan road, the laying of internal village water pipelines and roads, the completion of the construction of a cultural and recreational complex in the village of Akshymyrau, the construction of outpatient clinics in the villages of Tushtanovo, Sychevo and Kyzan.
Stepan Grigoryan, moderator and head of the non-governmental organization Analytical Center for Globalization and Regional Cooperation, spoke about Kazakhstan's foreign policy initiatives and the movement against weapons of mass destruction at the 2010 Ecu Summit in the capital.
Last year, the Ministry of Energy reviewed and signed investment agreements with energy-producing organizations, providing for the approval of the penetration tariff for 2015 at a level not exceeding the tariffs approved by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 25, 2009.
According to him, the head of the party plans to take part in the congress.
Minister of Competition and Antitrust Regulation Nurlan Aldabergenov noted that in accordance with the agreement concluded on January 1, 2015, an anti-competitive agreement and control over unfair competition were established on the cross-border market.
The volume of produced products from 2010 to 2014 amounted to 157, 8 billion tenge (2010 - 0.2 billion tenge, 2011 - 3-9 billion tenge, 2012 - 9.0 billion tenge, 2013 - 54.7 billion tenge, 2014 - 90 billion tenge).
three-stage ("30-20-10") principle of obtaining a building permit.
memoranda on the development of local content were signed "Kazakhstan temir zholy" uk, "kazmunaigaz" uk, "Eurasian group," "kegok" ak, "kazakhtelecom" ak and others.
2.9 billion tenge has been invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
By the end of this year, it is necessary to transfer 2 unprofitable healthcare organizations to a public-private partnership, improve financial discipline, and increase the self-reliance of subordinate organizations, "concluded A. Yessimov.
As part of the implementation of the program, 7 joint competitions on scientific internships, scientific seminars, post-secondary studies, as well as work on the opening of professional development centers at leading universities in large cities and regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan were held.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the fact that the executive branch of the region pays attention to the field of education is evidenced by the construction of five new schools in a remote area over the past three years and the overhaul of 18 educational institutions in two years.
It is important not to forget about the life paths of veterans. it is important not to forget that our veterans came through .
this is the production of synthetic carpets and carpets (Honey Textile LLC), the production of construction gloves (Territory of Comfort LLP), the assembly of a sewing machine (Utaria Ltd Production Innovation Company LLC), "said Yerzhanov.
The new specialized social network "www.1ccc.kz" provides such an opportunity, "said G. Whanganov.
The agreement was concluded in order to implement a joint statement adopted during the meeting of the President of Kazakhstan with Prince Monaco and Albert in 2012, within the framework of which an agreement was reached on joint work to strengthen international security, the statement said.
By the end of December 2014, the head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Radical Improvement of Conditions for Entrepreneurial Activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan," aimed at improving legislation on entrepreneurial activity.
including, today, the question of mutual assistance in criminal matters of 23 May 1992, Kazakhstan's accession to the Inter-American Conventions on Extradition of 26 December 1933 and the transfer of convicted persons of 9 June 1993, which, in general, will allow for the settlement of international cooperation in criminal proceedings with the countries of the Americas and the United States of America.
Kazakhstan remains an important partner for Germany. kazakhstan is an important partner for germany .
among the signatories are Vostoktsvetmet LLP, Kazzinc LLP, Uktmk White, Asia Auto White and others.
According to him, there is a new economic program "Nұrly zhol," 5 institutional reforms, the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
we are a country of work. we are the country of labor .
bakytzhan abdirovich sagintayev - First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
On April 25, the "day of silence" will begin, which will allow voters without outside influence to finally comprehend their upcoming choice and get an absentee certificate for voting until 6 p.m. those who change their address at that time, "said K. Turgankulov.
On the basis of the governing order of the presidential administration, a regional information group was created to explain the priority directions of the message of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" of November 11, 2014.
Recall that the museum of the Department of Internal Affairs of Almaty region was opened in 2007, and today it has reappeared in an updated state.
the commission's decision satisfied the application of the peasant economy "gold-soil," "citizen," "iceberg," "ringo" and returned the statement "hello."
This session is a significant event to take stock of the 20-year review of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (badging + 1995) of the international agreements reached at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Pairs in 20.
During the conversation, the leaders of the two countries discussed in detail issues of further strengthening bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic, investment and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
It is noted that the first conference tedhastana will be devoted to the topic "how big is big" or "how big" will become "big."
A festive evening dedicated to March will be held on January 5, 2015 at Turksa headquarters in agreement with UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova on the holding of an international March holiday.
Kazakhstan is one country, one people, one future.
In order to improve safety and labor protection conditions, over five years employers have certified about 12 thousand production facilities, introduced international standards for safety and labor protection of more than 1.4 thousand enterprises, "said D. Argundykov.
these are the programs of the head of state "Kazakhstan-2030," "Kazakhstan-2050," "Nұrly zhol."
According to Akmola Media Center, the transition to a "green economy" will be organized with the support of the Council under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
XXII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan one country - one destiny. "
As M. Susainov noted, this will save jobs at livestock and poultry enterprises, since 12 thousand rural residents work in this area.
we pay great attention to the rule of law, "he said.
this year is not easy for us. as you know , this year is difficult for us .
Transfers have also been allocated for the reconstruction of the water supply system and raising the salaries of teachers and civil servants from the second half of 2015, "the report said.
this is especially noticeable in the capital, "said Tarpishchev.
all provided funds "are directed to large investment projects, such as transport infrastructure, logistics, industry, energy."
In general, Kazakhstan is on the right track, it is necessary to maintain political stability, mutual understanding and friendship, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
To further improve these services in 2014, it is planned to add to the memoranda signed between the health departments and the medical organizations subordinate to them.
Trade turnover between the two countries amounted to 1.1 billion US dollars last year, respectively, 6.8 million US dollars were concluded between East Kazakhstan region and the Republic of Lithuania, the volume of which increased by 6.1% compared to 2013.
tamara bosymbekovna duissenova - Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Recall that at the enlarged government meeting on February 11, 2015, President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev noted that given the current real situation in the global economy, the main direction is the processing of agricultural products and the development of the food industry.
all projects will be supported.
Due to the fact that in the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union from January 1, 2016 there is a common market for medicines that meet the standards of good pharmaceutical practice (gmp), the quality of products will be good, for this the Russian and Belarusian markets will be open, "he concluded.
If we talk about the processing industry, over the past five years we have reduced growth indicators, reaching the level of labor productivity from 71% to 57%.
This means that the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is interested in all international institutions - steam, ecu, the Council of Europe, the Asian Development Bank, the European Development Bank and other regional associations.
awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of 2 degrees, medals "for courage," "for the capture of Berlin," "for the victory over Germany."
we heard about the victory on May 8 at 4 a.m. we learned about the victory on may 8 at 4 am .
According to the statistical agency, in December 2014, the cost of living per capita, calculated by the minimum norm of basic consumer goods, increased by 1.2% compared to the previous month and by 9.2% more than in December 2013.
According to data, this year wheat prices increased by 24.7%, rice - by 19.6%, barley - by 9.5%, corn - by 7.4%, packaging - by 1.8%, and buckwheat - by 15.4%, rye - by 6.5%, oats - by 2.6%.
In total, last year, the regional courts examined 3,070 cases, 689 sanction materials for arrest, acquittals were handed down against 23 persons, 43 persons were released from liability, 1,014 cases were completed by mediation agreements.
Recall that the e-licensing information system was created in 2008 in order to automate the licensing process, permitting documents and ensure effective communication between state bodies - licensors and the business community of Kazakhstan.
Adoption of a new tourism development programme.
we are confident that in the coming years political and economic modernization will strengthen relations between the European Union and Kazakhstan, the congratulation says.
among them are peasant farms "bagration-2," "emil," "east-milk," "food" and others.
Deputy Chairman of the Committee for the Development of Languages ​ ​ and Socio-Political Work of the Salem made a report on the general level of implementation in state bodies and national companies in 2014 in accordance with the action plan of the program for 2014-2016, the organization of training courses, and the mechanisms for testing through the castest system.
aa. According to Idrissov, the CIS heads of state plan to take part in festive events in Moscow, in particular, in the informal meeting of the CIS on May 8 this year and the solemn parade on May 9 this year.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs invited Nau to take part in the specialized international exhibition "Expo-2017."
2.9 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
As the head of Kazavtodor noted, the cost amounted to 2.6 billion tenge.
Recall that in the structure of processing, the share of food products amounted to 67.3%, mechanical engineering - 20%, finished metal products - 4.4%, rubber and plastic products - 2.9%, the rest - 5.2%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to an important project being implemented in the country - the international exhibition "expo-2017," on the basis of which the financial center "Capital" will be created.
the signatories of the memorandum are Kazakhtelecom JSC, Kazmunaigas JSC, Kazakhmys Corporation JSC, Arselormittal Temirtau JSC.
At the same time, 5.8 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of agriculture, 6.9 billion tenge for the development of transport infrastructure, "said the head of the economic and budget planning department of the region, the Bektemir channel.
administrative cases - cases not paid off by parental debt, on offenders - 64%, criminal cases - 65%, which by court decision were fined for non-payment of parental debt to children, "the judge said.
From March 16 to April 15, 2015, 3090 citizens living in remote settlements of the country, as part of special mobilization groups, received advice on the appointment of pensions and benefits from specialists of the State Center for the Payment of Pensions in the Countryside, and Kazpost population service centers.
2.9 billion tenge has been invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
war veterans are awarded state awards.
Despite the fact that chicken meat production ranks second in the country after beef production, poultry meat self-sufficiency is about 50%, "the union explained.
we are one people, purpose, interests, future.
we will complete this path this year.
By the way, one of the three new greenhouses - the "Cossack" - has already been launched, and is ready to annually supply 531 tons of cucumbers and 756 tons of tomatoes to the markets of the southern and southwestern regions of the republic.
According to the Vice Minister, 34.7 billion tenge will be allocated for subsidization of priority production of crops, 27 billion tenge - for cheaper cost of mineral fertilizers and herbicides, 6 billion tenge - for simplification of leasing of agricultural machinery, 3.4 billion tenge - for growing grapes and berry plants.
On the eve of the anniversary, another 3 million tenge was allocated for the improvement of the village of Karakystak, and design and network documentation is being developed for the overhaul of the akyn museum, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
we unite the ethnos of Kazakhstan.
The European Union remains our main trading partner, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan plans to join the WTO, and we thank the European Union and the Lithuanian country for the support provided to Kazakhstan for these purposes, "noted K. Massimov.
At the same time, it should be noted that the forest planting event was organized by the Astana Expo-2017 coalition and the green economy and development, as well as the foundation for the "sustainable development" of the land, "Nazarbayev intellectual schools."
Mangistau Regional Kha currently has 21 ethnocultural associations, which deal with a number of other issues, such as education, the development of national cultures and traditions and the strengthening of inter-ethnic relations.
Thus, in agricultural crops, winter wheat, 120.4 thousand hectares of spring spike and 31.5 thousand hectares of vegetable and melon crops, 7.7 hectares of potatoes and 10 thousand hectares of sugar beets will be planted on an area of ​ ​ 103.9 thousand hectares.
the whole world, our country is committed to labor, "said the head of state.
this work will continue.
It is necessary to work to improve the well-being of the population through the development of the economy, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, to date, 40 Kurezhsky medical and rescue centers equipped with medical equipment, water storage containers and fuel and lubricants are operating on especially dangerous sections of roads.
(Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, People's Republic of China, Mongolia, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan).
S. Dyachenko also informed about the adoption of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" proposed by the Head of State, aimed at rehabilitating the well-being of the Bosnian people and at entering the country into 30 competitive countries.
the main number of newly registered subjects is concentrated in the regions of "Almat" (48.5%) and "Saryarka" (31.3%).
"friendly polymer," "dsk-aktau," "Azersun center of production and logistics," "pietro fiorintini Kazakhstan," "dsk-guard" "medical farm" cha-chicken. "
The basis of the memorandum is the establishment and development of long-term and mutually beneficial cooperation between the parties on the implementation of the project for the construction of a natural gas liquefaction plant with a capacity of at least 100 million m3 per year in the Zhambyl region.
Thus, the funds were distributed as follows: to the republican budget - 730 million tenge, to the regional budgets - more than 745 million tenge, holdings - 38 567 million tenge, akk - 2 915 million tenge.
In addition, deputy akim of the region and akim of cities and districts visited the shanyraks of 642 veterans living in all districts and cities of the region, and presented congratulations to the Head of State.
I was in Kazakhstan for various reasons, and I watched the process of development of Kazakhstan over the years of independence.
it is also an opportunity to show the world the achievements, economic and political successes of our country, which intends to be among the 30 most developed countries with Soviet history, "he said.
During the meeting, the owner of the New Dawn peasant farm, Akhmet Mataev, shared plans to build a dairy processing plant in Semipalatinsk with a capacity of up to 50 tons per day.
The competition commission determined the winners by various ages: shagirovka (5 years), spanova fariza (6 years), escorbek apples (7 years), abujusip darkhan (9 years), sour cream (10 years).
The program of the event includes the presentation of Kazakhstan's investment opportunities for Singaporean investors, increasing bilateral business and investment cooperation.
At the same time, the bill proposes to set the supplier a period of no more than 30 days for completeness and oblige to fill out an electronic invoice, an electronic document on the delivery of goods, electronic acts on the performance of work, "said the head of the department.
The head of state instructed until 2020 to conduct full coverage of children with preschool institutions, eliminate emergency and three-shift schools, train personnel on a contractual basis, taking into account the domestic economy and implement state programs.
As Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP of Kazakhstan Nurzhan Altayev noted, the Head of State in the message "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": the new political course of the state" noted that the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the economy should grow at least twice by 2030.
I am sure that your visit will help bring our relations to a new level, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the long-term concept of cultural policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the concept) is Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 2050, 2014 "Kazakhstan Way - 17: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the statement said.
the measures taken contributed to the improvement of socio-demographic indicators: in the region the population increased to 70 years, maternal mortality decreased by 67%, infant mortality - by 15.6%, tuberculosis incidence - by 19.4%, mortality of the population as a whole - by 6.6%.
As a result of the meeting, the Chinese side's participation in the international exhibition Expo 2017 was discussed, where agreements were reached on organizing a working trip of the Chinese delegation to the capital in the second half of 2015 in order to study the construction of the Chinese national pavilion.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation were discussed, including in the trade, economic and investment spheres.
previously added "baiterek," "sedentary," "mangistau," "Caspian."
the number of doctors of sciences in the scientific environment was 1688 (9.8%), candidates of sciences - 4915 (28.6%), doctors of sciences - 218 (1.2%), doctors in professional areas - 605 (3.5%), applicants without an academic title - 9774 (56.8%) people.
According to the majilis committee, the preparation of the bill is caused by the need to bring the provisions of the new code into line with the provisions of the 2014 law, which amended the current code on administrative offenses.
the help of a lawyer and an accountant in the center for servicing entrepreneurs and consulting services in 20 different areas, including customs, tax payments, "the statement said.
in 1981 he graduated from the road department of the Karaganda Polytechnic Institute with a degree in mechanical engineering; In 1992 he graduated from the Faculty of Political Science of the Russian Academy of Management with a degree in politics.
Issues of Kazakh-parallel cooperation were discussed during the meeting.
The implementation of the program will be carried out in the following main areas - this is, first of all, a transition to long-term regulation, which will be carried out through the long-term tariff of investors for the services of natural monopolies for at least 5 years, "he said.
During the meeting, the prospects of bilateral relations in the political and economic spheres were discussed.
We hope that 10 basic universities will become the leading educational institutions of the country and will meet international high standards, "added B. Kaparbayev.
our experience is interesting to many countries. many foreign countries are interested in our experience .
According to him, work is underway with members of the European Free Trade Association.
all projects were transferred to the state scientific and technical expertise.
this equipment was left without use by representatives of the armed forces, and we create the opportunity to turn it into a tug "batyr" and use it for a second time, "said Yerzhan Karimov, general director of Ki 811 Automobile Repair Plant JSC.
for us, expo is a strategically important event in terms of tourism development. for us expo is strategically important event in terms of tourism development .
the capital adapts to international directions and opens new directions to the main financial centers of the world (New York, Tokyo, Singapore).
company "Uralets."
1 billion 241.5 million tenge was allocated from the national and local budgets as an auxiliary institution for kindergartens and educational institutions, housing and engineering systems were implemented, improvement measures for 482.1 million tenge.
It is expected that in a separate rural district, with the help of Agromercourt, a feedlot for 800 cattle and a milk farm for 1,200 cattle will be launched.
According to the Mayor's Office, in accordance with the plan to celebrate the great victory in the Second World War and preparatory events in the Republic of Kazakhstan, a list of veterans who will take part in the events that will be held on May 7 in the capital and May 9 in Moscow has been determined.
Here, highly qualified specialists of Railway Hospitals of Disaster Medicine JSC of the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan provided medical assistance to 933 residents of the village and nearby settlements.
this is an event in which the general presence of all people shocked international observers, "he said.
As part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," the company received state support and subsidized 280 tenge.
Thus, friendly relations between our countries are strengthened, "the head of state said.
He also recalled that on November 17, 2014, N.A. Nazarbayev signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Reducing Bureaucratic Procedures, Simplifying the Referral of Cases to the Court."
G. Abdykalikova during the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to Italy in 2009 gave a good assessment of the dynamics of the development of Kazakh-Italian relations, which, after the signing of the interstate agreement on strategic partnership, rose to the level of strategic purity.
we are introducing a new type of weapon, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, these working groups from March 16 to 20, according to the results of the first week of the working group, covered 5 thousand 900 people.
dear, Nursultan Abishevich! dear nursultan nazarbayev !
kindergarten built according to the state program "Balapan."
During the meeting the Head of state noted implementation of the large investment projects aimed at the development of infrastructure of the country within the new economic policy "Nrla zhol".
Kazakhstan is implementing an industrialization program. the program of industrialization is implemented in kazakhstan .
Since April 10, updated voter lists are submitted for consultation in the premises of precinct election commissions and each voter can check his data directly at polling stations before the date of voting and on election day.
According to the results of the fair, 156 people received employment referrals, 35 people left resumes, included employers in the personnel reserve, 13 people enrolled in advanced training courses, 17 received advice from lawyers.
According to ibs, the winners in the nominations "vocals, instrumental performance," "," "dance," "craft" will perform at a concert in the capital.
partners of the project are institutions subordinate to the Governor's Office of the capital: the innovative development operator Astana Innovations and the transport infrastructure development operator of the capital of Astana Lrt LLP.
in the same year, the name "special genre" was added to such nominations as "theater genre, vocals," "craft," "dance," "art art."
To continue the modernization of the communal sector until 2019, a plan of appropriate measures was approved, 101 projects on heat supply and 66 projects on water supply and sanitation facilities were implemented.	a relevant action plan developed for the further modernization and it is planned to realize 101 projects on heat supply and 66 projects on water supply and sanitation till 2019 year .	1,78
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during the meeting, the parties discussed cooperation in bilateral and multilateral formats, as well as the situation in Ukraine, Syria, stabilization of Afghanistan, the Iranian nuclear program and other relevant international issues.	during the meeting , the sides discussed the issues of cooperation in bilateral and multilateral formats , as well as the approaches to pressing international problems , such as the situation in the ukraine , syria , efforts to stabilize afghanistan , iran 's nuclear program and others , the ministry of foreign affairs reported .	1,78
we choose the future of our country.	we elect the future of our country .	1,78
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on this holiday.	i want to congratulate all the people on this holiday .	1,78
Sh.akhov congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his re-election to the post of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	sh.ahtar congratulated nursultan nazarbayev on his reelection as president of the republic of kazakhstan .	1,78
After the military parade, which will be held on May 7, our hero compatriots will receive a solemn meeting ceremony, Kazakhstan's Oaks and the Opera Capital at mobile concerts, laying flowers at the Defender of the Fatherland monument, traveling around the city (national museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Baiterek monument, ethno-memorial complex "Map of Kazakhstan" Atameken "), mosque"
In general, in South Kazakhstan region within the industrialization map totaling 1.2 trillion tenge. 223 projects, amounting to 32.9 thousand new jobs.
UN Interregional Adviser eamd to the event. Deputy Head for Innovative Projects, Spenake, Head of the American project "open data 500" l. representatives of milli and state bodies of Kazakhstan.
According to Governor of West Kazakhstan region Nurlan Nogayev, 6 investment projects worth 3.9 million tenge are being implemented at the reporting meeting with local residents.
The refinement will systematize expenses by 686.7 billion tenge and increase the budget deficit by 259.4 billion tenge, the minister said.
The forum participants discuss the importance of the presidential election as an integral part of a democratic state of law, its role in uniting Kazakh society, as well as the specifics of the 2015 election campaign.
As you know, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, in a message to the people "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" said: "Within the framework of industrialization programs, 10 universities have been identified on their bases, where science is connected with economic sectors and specialists are trained.
It is worth noting that for the first time in the history of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, the air force of Kazakhstan was replenished with two-seat multifunctional super-functional fighters Su-30SM generation 4 + +, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
According to the Statistics Committee of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, according to the results of February 2015, Mangistau region became the best among the regions of Kazakhstan in terms of providing new houses - 75.9 thousand square meters, 40.6 thousand.
the president of Kazakhstan also told about the opportunities given by the program of industrial and innovative development of our country and the main directions of the new economic policy "nrla zhol".
During the speech, the head of delegations heard reports from the leadership of the Shui regional anti-terrorism structure on the work done in the second half of 2014 and in the first half of 2015.
In addition, on New Year's Eve, 20 children from low-income and large families will take part in a charity event in the studio of the Fairy Tale World Theater on the theme: "Happy New Year to Our Country."
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 860 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 804 million tenge, holdings - 38 567 million tenge, akk - 2 917 million tenge.
Since 2009, maternal mortality has decreased by 3 times and in 2014 amounted to 11.8 per 100,000 live births; infant mortality decreased by 1.8 times to 10.0 per 1,000 live births in 2014; and life expectancy reached 70.4 years.
From year to year for our region the amount of funds allocated from the republican budget increases (2011 - 1.3 billion tenge, 2012 - 1.4 billion tenge, 2013 - 2.1 billion tenge, 2014 - 2.7 billion tenge).
this is the main result of our elections, the main conclusion of the president. "
The presidential election is an important campaign of our country.
Issekeshev - Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
dear Nursultan Abishevich! dear nursultan nazarbayev !
Recall that on February 17 of this year, at an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister Tamara Dusenova said that Kazakhstan's specialists are making efforts to improve the quality of services in the field of health and social and labor.
Adoption of the Law on State Audit and Financial Control.
During the meeting, the Foreign Ministry discussed political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres of bilateral cooperation.
In general, we vote for the future of Kazakhstan, for economic stability, social security and the development of spiritual values, "the Secretary of State said.
Recall that 5 years ago, the Ministry of Emergency Situations jointly created the Kazakhstan Railway to provide emergency medical assistance in emergency situations.
all this, in the end, involves an increase in the volume of trade between the eurozone member countries from the current $4 billion to $10 billion until 2020, "she added.
we wanted to organize the interaction of special forces in case of emergencies and show its practical implementation, "said Lieutenant Colonel M. Kamanov, head of the service of troops of the military unit 25750.
concession term 2015-2034.
According to the organizers, the main slogan of the event is "our forces are together."
capital entrepreneurs at the meeting: (energy, heat, heat), bohemia muller (energy, heat, tuksh), ciglar masrani architecs (architecture, design, engineering), garnets consulting (water, construction, alternative energy sources, sanitation), got acquainted with the samples of ibg companies (battery, backup energy).
together we are forming a powerful country. together we are building a strong country .
investors coming to Kazakhstan first of all think about the stability of the country. investors who come to kazakhstan , first of all , think about the stability of the country .
The cash multiplier decreased from 4.10 in December 2013 to 3.75 in December 2014 due to the excess of the expansion rate of the monetary base recorded in 2014 compared to the growth rate of the money supply.
38% of the total volume of contract work was carried out by small organizations with a number of workers up to 50 people, 27.2% by medium-sized construction organizations with a number of workers from 51 to 250 people and 34.8% by large enterprises with a number of workers more than 250 people.
He also noted that as a result of effective measures taken, the coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years in pre-school education in the region will reach 98%.
In addition, at the expense of the regional budget, 22 settlements of the Bayzak district and 10 settlements of the Ryskulovsky district are being prepared for gasification and the construction of new agtz stations in the village of Akyrtobe.
the first reform is the creation of a state apparatus.
In addition, victims of political repression, persons with disabilities and pensioners affected by political repression, special state benefits, regardless of other social benefits (hereinafter referred to as amj), are paid in the amount of 1.07 monthly indicators (2015 - 2121 tenge).
the total starting price was KZT6,061 million, the sale price was KZT7,387 million.
Discussing the issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Ecu, the Foreign Minister drew attention to the proposal of the head of state to develop a conceptual new agreement by analogy with the Helsinki Act of 1975.
stability of Kazakhstan - stability of central Asia.
Recall that from July 2014 to the present, 4 officers of the Kazakh peacekeeping brigade Kazbrig work as observers in the peacekeeping mission to maintain peace and security during the referendum in Western Sahara.
the message of the head of state is the new economic policy of Kazakhstan and the response of our country to global challenges.
he suggested that this experience be used in all regions of the country.
all Kazakhstanis will be employed, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
the total area of ​ ​ the dry port, taking into account the material, technical and production zone, covers 568 hectares, when further implementing the plans, an increase in the area is envisaged.
We will not implement new projects, that is, inefficient, "the deputy said.
The program is implemented by Baiterek Holding through its subsidiaries Development Bank of Kazakhstan, Development Enterprise Development Fund, Treasury Capital Management, National Agency for Technological Development, and Kazexportgarant.
The volume of budget financing of the program "Nұrly zhol" is 423.5 billion tenge.
The introduction of an open government.
the driving force of our initiative is the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the second five-year plan of the industrial and innovative development program and the new economic policy nұrly zhol.
during the solemn event with. The names of the winners and prize-winners of the Berdikulov Republican Prize for 2014 became known: a. Beisenbaev (Kazakhstan Pravda newspaper), r. Okasov (Almaty TV channel) and f. Amirenov (Pavlodar regional newspaper "Saryarka Samala").
The Luxembourg Prime Minister wished the President of Kazakhstan success in working in a responsible position.
In order to increase the efficiency of the company's activities, it is planned to transfer the offices of subsidiaries of Kazatomprom Uak JSC, which produce uranium in the territory of South Kazakhstan region, from Almaty to Shymkent in 2015.
According to the forecast of the ministry, the volume of gross agricultural products will remain at the level of last year, respectively, the index of physical volume of agriculture is expected at the level of 100%.	according to the ministry 's forecast , the gross output of agriculture will remain at the level of the last year , respectively , it is expected that the volume index of agricultural production will be at 100 % .	1,80
The main theme of the summit, which will last until January 22, will be the development of joint solutions to form the energy of the future, based on the most modern technologies and the effective use of existing opportunities.	the central theme of the summit , which will last until january 22 , will be the development of joint decisions on the formation of energy of the future , based on the most modern technologies and efficient use of available opportunities .	1,80
The Swiss Confederation is one of the main trading partners of Kazakhstan - in 2014 trade turnover exceeded 4.7 billion US dollars, and investors - 12 billion dollars as direct general investments since 2005.	swiss confederation is one of the leading trade partners of the republic of kazakhstan ( the volume of bilateral trade in 2014 exceeded usd 4.7 bln . ) , and investors ( gross direct investment since 2005 exceeded usd 12 bln . ) .	1,80
The total volume of the data processing center is more than 200 sq.m., equipped with power supply, air conditioning, automatic gas fire extinguishing, security and fire alarm equipment, video surveillance, as well as an integrated monitoring system and control system.	the data center with total area of over 200 sq.m. , is equipped with systems for power supply , air conditioning , automated gaseous fire suppression , security and fire alarm , cctv , as well as the comprehensive monitoring and management system .	1,80
the new economic policy "Nrla zhol" will contribute to the further development of economy and the social sphere.
We will start our action in Kazakhstan.
According to the head of the region, last year 367 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the water supply project of 57 villages of the region, including 40 villages connected to the above-mentioned group water supply.
we will devote our talent and hard work to the prosperity of our country, "the head of state said.
I enter the "Nazarbayev University" with a degree in construction engineering.
I take control of this situation, "said akim.
in its structure, the share of costs for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 21.3%, milk, fat and oil products and eggs - 17%, fruits and vegetables - 10.5%, bread and cereals - 9.4%, sugar, tea and additives - 1.8%.
we visited the polling stations of the capital, Almaty, Shymkent, Kokshetau, Karaganda, South Kazakhstan, Akmola. we visited astana , almaty , shymkent , kokshetau , karaganda , south kazakhstan region , akmola region .
Kazakhstan's international actions are based on national interests in ensuring and strengthening security, sovereignty and territorial integrity, political stability and sustainable economic development of the country, the Senate chairman said.
The new head of the German capital, M. Muller, expressed interest and readiness to intensify trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian relations between the capital and Berlin on the basis of a memorandum of partnership signed in 2001 between the capitals of the two countries.
Gulshara abdykalikova noted that the opening of the office of ddu in Almaty is a serious event, since earlier in 1978 Kazakhstan adopted a declaration of ddu/unicef on the provision of first aid.
After the end of World War II, Vasily Fedotovich until 1951 served in the headquarters of the Turkestan Military District, after which he returned to his homeland.
this year we will not change the shape of the championship. we have decided that this year we will not change the format of the unt .
According to the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, 68 memoranda have been signed for a total amount of more than 310 billion tenge, 59 memoranda ensuring labor rights of employees.
Also, Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented with the composition of the national pavilion of Kazakhstan - the central object of the exhibition.
this year, the program "Nұr zhol" you proposed is being implemented.
I am sure that holding early presidential elections in 2015 will provide Kazakhstan with stability and will become a successful factor for entering the 30 developed countries of the world, "the CEO of kazenergy concluded.
It should be noted that due to adverse weather conditions in the 2014 harvesting campaign, a number of Kazagro holdings were unable to timely fulfill obligations to white subsidiaries.
In turn, the deputy of the city maslikhat, the director of the school-lyceum No. 59 of Astana, believes that the correct education of the younger generation is the key to creating a full-fledged society.
The sides also discussed the potential of cooperation in the field of agriculture between Kazakhstan and Malaysia, which were considered among the promising areas in a joint statement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Malaysia, adopted following the official visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia to the capital on May 22-24, 2014.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the successes of Kazakhstan were clarified in the ranking of equality of rights between men and women, published by the expert group of the World Economic Forum in October 2012, where our country took 32nd place out of 135.
According to available information, 15 employers took a direct part in this event and held consultations with job seekers in a number of other specialties: engineer, surveyor, power engineer, foreman, doctor, economist, lawyer, reinforced concrete worker, electrician, railroad worker, car crane driver, pump driver.
our joint work was not neglected, our forgotten in Karaganda "won the nomination for the best documentary of 2014, received the california film awards, and also became the best European documentary at the Jakarta Film Festival (Indonesia). dusenbaev.
ivan afanasevich was awarded the Order of the Great Patriotic War and the jubilee medals "For the Defense of Stalingrad," "For Military Merit."
this work will continue after the crisis is over, "the head of state said.
at the congress of the youth wing "Zhas Otan" "The Way to Achieve a New Generation" until 2020, "Youth-Homeland!" The program "Kazakhstan-2050" was adopted, which will become an ideological guideline for future actions of the Zhasotanovites in the successful implementation of the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
It identifies the main directions of the work of the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy for 2015 on the implementation of the main provisions of the message of the head of State "Nұr zhol - the way to the future."
On March 10, 2015, on behalf of Kazakhstan, the head of the Secretariat of the Secretary of State, Serik Akhmetov, in his speech reported on the state policy of the country aimed at improving gender equality, rights and opportunities for women, as well as on the significant achievements achieved at the national and international levels since independence.
our employees worked with national, republican, central state archives.
At the end of the seminar, the Kazakh diplomat noted that the implementation of economic reforms and structural reforms will be one of the main prerequisites of our country's strategy to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
opening the meeting, the Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan's patriotism and unity of the people are an important factor in the phased implementation of the five institutional reforms proposed by the head of state, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, and the successful implementation of "100 concrete steps."
According to the results of a sociological study conducted by the scientific and expert council of the assembly with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 95% of the population consider themselves to be representatives of one people, "the Secretary of State said.
Following the meeting, the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region concluded a number of memoranda between national companies and local producers on the development of local content totaling 39 billion tenge.
The Akmeshit folklore ensemble was created in 2009 at the regional philharmonic in order to popularize color art, national folklore.
In this regard, in order to assess the proper adoption of the moratorium by entrepreneurs, the Prosecutor General's Office initiated the creation and implementation of indicators for assessing the impact of support measures adopted by the State in May 2014.
Each of the 5115 war veterans living in the republic, akims of regions, cities and districts will be specially congratulated and presented with a set of New Year's gifts on behalf of the head of state.
60 musicians from the most famous orchestras in the world performed works that are the result of the author's illiterate work for 30 years and inspired the English public, "the report said.
Further, the head of the department of the committee on technical regulation and metrology in the North Kazakhstan region Vasily Chepukhin informed about the work of the department of the committee on technical regulation and metrology for 2014 and shared his plans for 2015.
that is, thanks to the financial support of Kazmunaigas JSC, we got the opportunity to launch the first control class in the capital, where children with autism from school No. 23 study.
According to the press service of Akorda, the chairman of the counting committee reported to the head of state on the main results of the department's work for 2014 and the tasks for the upcoming period.
mainly foreign labor is accounted for by Kazakhstan from China - 9.6 thousand people (31%), Turkey - 6.1 thousand people. (20%), India - 2.3 thousand people (8%), Italy - 1.5 thousand people (5%), Uzbeks - 1.1 thousand people (4%), - said Argandykov.
One of the important tasks of the head of state is to assist citizens with disabilities in development, especially children, in the region these are 5169 children.
According to the results of financial recovery of agro-industrial complex entities from 2013 to the present, 274 debts of agro-industrial complex entities were approved for a total amount of 311.1 billion tenge.
its bright way, "marking 2015 with the year of worship of national history and the assessment of the heights of our country achieved so far.
The Afghan minister noted that for the first time in Kazakhstan, his father attended the 1999 summit of the Economic Cooperation Organization together with the former President of Afghanistan, Rabban Burkhanuddin, who died at the hands of terrorists.
the subscriber fee by grouping provides the possibility of an international call to cellular operators within 140 minutes to the CIS and non-CIS countries.	the line rental includes an opportunity to make international telephone calls to the cis countries , far abroad countries and mobile operators for 140 minutes .	1,83
By the end of the year, it is necessary to adopt 25 regulatory documents on the pharmaceutical market and 15 on medical products, "said Valery Koreshkov, member of the board on technical regulation.
we, Kazakhstanis, took up the fate of the republic and built a country that recognizes the world, "the head of state said.
Kazakh Ambassador to Bahrain B. Batyrshayev opened the meeting, noting that this forum is held within the framework of the agreement between the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and the Bahraini king hamad and isa al-caliph, reached in April 2014 during the visit of the Bahraini monarch to the capital to promote trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two countries.
8 memoranda were signed by the Governor's Office of the region, trade union organizations and employers in the first direction on the basis of issues of stabilization of production processes, ensuring labor rights and employment of workers.
but at the same time, according to a preliminary estimate of the Ministry of National Economy, due to the preservation of aggregate demand in January-November 2014, gross domestic product growth amounted to 4.2%.
It is worth noting that the Nauryz commission was created in 2010 on the initiative of the former Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan, Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerlan Idrysov, a public figure and famous philanthropist of the Naser Kazem in order to popularize the spring holiday in America.
in our country there are 5 million minor children, of which 2.5 million are preschool children, 2.5 million are school-age children, 300 thousand are minor students, "said the chairman of the committee.
100 billion tenge will be allocated for concessional lending to small and medium-sized businesses, as well as large enterprises in the food industry, aimed at concessional lending to the food and chemical industry, engineering, as well as projects in the services sector.
According to preliminary data, the amount of funds allocated by the joint-stock company Kazagrofinance for the implementation of projects is 5 billion 113 million tenge, "said the head of the agriculture department of East Kazakhstan region on Monday.
in particular, crop production - 166.4 billion tenge, livestock - 65.6 billion tenge, maintenance - 0.5 billion tenge.
A positive difference in interregional migration occurred in the cities of Almaty (2,690 people), the capital (473 people) and the Akmola region (124 people), Mangistau (78 people), Aktobe (11 people).
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, it is planned to implement 11 road projects: western Europe - western China, center-south, center-east, center-west, diamonds, Kyzylorda zhezkazgan karaganda, the capital Petropavlovsk, the Russian Federation, Ural stone, the main road of the capital, seven - zhanaozen, usharal - friendship.
At the moment, in addition to the missions of three international organizations registered by the central election commission (eku/diakb, cis and shu) and 236 observers from 19 foreign countries, 98 representatives of foreign gardens from 19 states accredited by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan can carry out the competition.
therefore, a visit to the secretariat of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and negotiations with its leadership became one of the main parts of the program of the first visit of the Canadian delegation to Kazakhstan in September 2014.
According to the Governor's office, 17 people were sent with the Ministry of Defense, but due to the health of veterans, only 12 people take part in the events in the capital.
Currently, 27 projects have been commissioned for a total amount of 34.4 billion tenge, the production capacity of which is 146.7 thousand tons of milk and dairy products.
The bill has been prepared for the purpose of implementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Youth Policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Within the framework of the program, working trips of the Kazakh delegation to the agricultural cooperatives barnstad and raiffeisen were organized.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 5, 2007 No. 364 "On Approval of Combined Arms Charters of the Armed Forces, Other Troops and Military Formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On Republican, Regional, City of Republican Significance, Capital, District" on Amendments to Decrees dated June 24, 2013 No. 587 "On Approval of the Regulation on Operational Headquarters for Combating Terrorism (Cities of Regional)."
According to UVP, 27 projects totaling 487.7bn tenge are being considered for inclusion in the industrialization map, which will create 5.2 jobs.
The Deputy Prime Minister emphasized that in the "100 concrete steps" the head of state noted an increase in the competitiveness of personnel who graduated from training and the growth of the potential education sector.
As noted in the report, senators have ratified amendments to articles 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Use and Conservation of Transboundary Watercourses and Rivers, ensuring the possibility of accession to this international act of countries that are not members of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
The Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber, speaking about expectations from the Eurasian Economic Union, emphasized that "the agreement on Eurasia is a logical continuation of time, the end of work begun in 2011."
According to the Mayor's Office, the memorandum signed by the Mayor of the city Adilbek Dzhaksybekov and Chairman of the Board of JSC Samruk-kazyna determines the priority areas for improving mutual cooperation, in particular, joint work on the development of the presidential professional sports club Capital, created in December 2012 with the support of the head of state.
According to the report, the work on commissioning of enterprises began in November 2014 by submitting to the Committee on Construction, Housing and Communal Services and Land Management of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the projects "sirius kazakhstan" and "kazakhstan pipe traders" are part of the joint-stock company "Sea Harbor of Rehabilitation" aea. "
conditions of acquisition by legal entities and individual entrepreneurs for leasing motor vehicles and special-purpose vehicles are as follows: leasing term - from 3 to 5 years, nominal interest rate - not more than 4% per annum, financing currency - tenge.
In addition, the Mayor stressed that the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Almaty will include 34 ethnocultural associations, which make a great contribution to the development of interethnic harmony and ethnocultural culture.
In 2014, the party, together with the Council of Veterans and the Council of Generals, raised the issue of perpetuating the memory of the heroes of the Kazakh Soviet Union and full cavaliers of the Order of Glory.
across Kazakhstan, young people are employed in accordance with the Employment 2020 program, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
the President of Kazakhstan "for merits before the state, vigorous public work and in honor of the 70 anniversary of a victory in the Great Patriotic War" the 48th state award the Almaty veteran, from them was presented to the III degree by the award "Barys" - 1, an award "Қ rmt" - 15, the medal "For Valorous Work" - 17 and the certificate of honor of the Republic of Kazakhstan - 15 veterans of the Second World War and home front workers.
winners will be awarded grants to study at the Chinese University of Mining and Technology, and will also have the opportunity to visit Milan as stand-ins for the presentation of Kazakhstan for expo 2015.
In order to implement the instructions of the Head of State concerning the implementation of the plan of the nation, which consists of 100 concrete steps, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is studying and studying foreign experience in modernizing the public service system and creating a modern, professional State apparatus.
The Chinese side was attended by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China to the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhang Hanhui, Chairman of the Board of beijing state-owned assets management co., ltd li aijing and CEO of china railway international group limited zheng thorns, the Mayor's Office of the city reported.
The largest number of approved applications falls on the following areas: "expansion and technical equipment of cattle commodity farms" - 405 applications; " creation and expansion of farms for meat, sheep, horse breeding and pig breeding "- 330 applications;" creation and expansion of dairy farms "- 112 applications.
The German Society purchased medicines and tonometers worth 125 thousand tenge for 400 people in disputed areas, Ryskulov districts, in the city of Sarysu, L. Lysova noted.
in addition, the sarbay visited the leading industrial companies of the forarlberg "doppelmayr" and "bertsch group," interested in establishing cooperation with Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Targeted Social Assistance" for families with a per capita income, including an allowance not exceeding the poverty line (40% of the subsistence minimum), targeted social assistance is provided to each family member taking into account income.
After the modernization of all domestic refineries in the country, it is planned to increase the volume of oil refining by 29.4%, from 14.5 million tons to 18 million tons per year.	following the completion of the domestic refineries ' modernization it is planned to increase oil refining by 29.4 percent , from 14.5 thousand tons up to 18 million tons per year .	1,85
Currently, on behalf of the Head of State, we have begun to prepare the activities of the State Program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2016-2020.
The name and timing of vaccination infections were approved by a Government decision of 30 December 2009 on the approval of the list of diseases in which preventive vaccinations are performed, the rules for their implementation and the population groups subject to planned vaccinations.
including the meat processing complex, which supplies meat and meat products to the Russian market 200 dairy plant for processing raw materials 5 thousand tons per year (kmz milk bluegorie LLP, eco milk too, milk project, Rodina LLP, Kokshetau plant for the production of baby food "), said S. Kulagin.
gold quality "and to participate in the competition-exhibition" Best Goods of Kazakhstan "the organizers of the competition were submitted an application for participation until July 2015, 1.
we will be in this process together with the Kazakhstani people, "said the Turkish leader.
Recall, on April 15, 2015, First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan sagintayev held a conference call dedicated to floods and rescue operations in the regions, for which 1 billion tenge will be allocated from the government budget.
generalized forecasts are formed from 11 different product groups: wheat, meat and meat products, beef, pork, lamb, poultry, milk and dairy products, sugar, vegetable oil, potatoes, egg and egg products.
construction of a sturgeon farm, project cost - 491 million tenge, caspian royal fish LLP, 25 new jobs were created.
Recall that the national management holding Kazagro plans to allocate budget loans in the amount of 60 billion tenge to support agro-industrial complex entities.
If projects for the modernization of public utilities are implemented in accordance with the requirements, by 2020 the level of wear and tear of heat and water supply systems will decrease from 65% to 53%, and the level of energy loss in the network will decrease. the modernization of utilities will allow to reduce the deterioration of heat networks , water supply and sanitation from 65 % to 53 % by 2020 .
In 2015, within the framework of international military cooperation between the Caspian countries, the naval forces of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, that is, the naval detachments of the Caspian flotilla, will conduct joint exercises, "said Colonel Igor Gorbul, head of the press service of the Southern Military District.
financing will be provided by kf "erg aid" and "aluminum of Kazakhstan."
In general, 26 greenhouse complexes with a total area of ​ ​ more than 94 hectares were approved for financing in the republic in the amount of more than 36.9 billion tenge under the investment direction "Creation of a network of greenhouse complexes."
The American company steward engineers was approved as a strategic investor in the project.
Following the meeting, a list of topics of joint statements for 2015 and the Plan of Councils on Foreign Policy, Security and Defense dedicated to the second half of 2015 and the first half of 2016 were adopted.
In accordance with article 15 of the Act of 30 May 2005 on international treaties of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I decide to ratify the Treaty on Military-Technical Cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, signed in Moscow on 24 December 2013.
During the meeting, issues of intensification of cooperation between the two countries in trade, economic, investment, fuel and energy spheres were discussed.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a number of issues related to the implementation of the cooperation program adopted in September of the same year, in accordance with the level partnership agreement between the World Bank and Kazakhstan, reached in May 2014.
In addition, N.Nadirov noted that Kazakhstan, a country that has built peace and harmony, 20 years ago, for the first time in history, on the initiative of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan was created.
we will continue the traditions of friendly relations and cooperation in all areas, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
A number of meetings will be held in Moscow between February and April 2015 in order to discuss the draft provision, the broader interpretation and the list of items classified in this category.
The next Astana economic forum will be held on May 21-22. on may 21-22 astana will hold astana economic forum .
Another 30 children took part in events at playgrounds and winter rinks, and 50 children with disabilities received tickets to other charity events.
By order of the Chairman of the Supreme Court in honor of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan and on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, about 70 judges, veterans of the Great Patriotic War, rear workers and retired judges were awarded departmental medals and special breastplates.
In his message, the head of state voiced the idea of ​ ​ the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
For 20 years, the assembly has become an important part of Kazakhstan's model of tolerance and social harmony among all ethnic groups of our country, "said Bakhytzhan lobster, librarian of the readership department.
At the same time, he noted that, according to the regional agricultural departments, 2.2 million tons of seeds were sown in 2015, which is 94 percent of consumption.
The forum was attended by MP of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Kazbekova, MP of the Parliament of Afghanistan Barakzai, administrator of the h.k. couple development program, Nobel Peace Prize winner in 2011, as well as representatives of political, economic, business groups of countries near and far abroad.
This year, more than 5 billion tenge was allocated for physical education and sports, the material and technical base is being updated, "the Governor of the region noted.
As part of the agenda for the next party congress, among 101 delegates, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the leader of the Nur Otan party N.A. Nazarbayev, members of the party's political council, members of the central control and audit commission, heads of regional branches, chairmen of the PP, participants in the party project "50 party persons" and party activists were elected, the party said.
As it became known, on April 26, 2015, in the extraordinary presidential elections held at the initiative of Asammablei of the people of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev won, gaining 97.75% of the vote.
"Employment Roadmap 2020," the development of single-industry towns, "agriculture," "murabaha," "entrepreneur," "hair" and "rural mortgage," the report said.
At the beginning of this year, the akimat concluded a memorandum with the Turkish company Shamrok.
kcell and kmobile companies have this number.
Peasant farms from 16 districts and 3 cities of Almaty region (tekeli, taldykorgan, kapchagai) delivered 168 tons of environmentally friendly and quality food.
The above-mentioned joint programme was adopted last year with the aim of improving the quality of life of the population of the region and is implemented by 6 agencies of the UN system (undp, Unicef, Yunpfa, Yunpfa, Unesco, Wow, UN-Jenshina).
state budget funds in terms of funding sources make up 32.8%, own funds of enterprises and organizations - 52.1%, bank loans - 4%, other borrowed funds - 11.1%.
The parties noted the successful results of the state visit of Kyrgyz President Almabek Atambayev to the capital on November 7, 2014 and stated that the main topic of Kazakh-Kyrgyz cooperation is the implementation of the agreements reached by the heads of the two countries.
Mayor of the city noted that the level of health care of the metropolis in 2014 in a number of parameters is higher than the average republican indicator.
Since the beginning of the project, 1727 km of roads have been overhauled, by the end of this year it is planned to complete the construction of 157 km of roads and open traffic from Shymkent to the border of the Russian Federation, the report said.
In addition, according to Bozhko, in preparation for the flood in the regions from March 12 to 13, the republican command and staff exercises "Spring 2015" were held, in which more than 12 thousand units of the Emergency Rescue Service, 162 thousand people and 25 thousand pieces of equipment took part.
According to representatives of the Governor's Office of the region, one of the partner companies supporting domestic producers, namely helios, ordered 34 tankers made on the basis of iveco 682 by Agromashholding.
we never said that this company would be budget. we have never said that this company will be low-cost - budget company .
In this regard, I congratulate Kazakhstanis on a significant holiday, "he said.
Thus, funds are distributed in the republican budget in the amount of 860 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 821 million tenge, holdings - 50 778 million tenge, akk - 2 917 million tenge.
As for the conditions for creating and terminating the activities of private entrepreneurs, the law reduced the period of registration of the enterprise by 1 hours, canceled the requirement for a minimum capital resolution in the amount of 100 tenge, "he said.
It is noted that as part of the project, a water treatment device will be installed in 24 general education schools and 4 kindergartens, which will cover 25 thousand students, residents of the Akmola region and the Akkol region.
the implementation of the project made it possible to ensure a reduction in heat deficiency with a capacity of up to 66 gcal/hour and an increase in the need for heat load on the left bank of the Semey.
The congress was attended by more than 2,000 delegates from all regions of the country, including representatives of regional branches of the youth wing "zhas otan," leaders of youth organizations, representatives of creative, scientific, working and rural youth, famous Kazakh athletes, deputies of maslikhats and others.
as well as officers killed by the Aybyn Order of the 2nd degree - commander of the military unit 21751 colonel e.nauanov. humpback awarded.
As a result of the work to ensure the principle of "zero tolerance" for crimes last year, the number of registered administrative offenses increased by 12.5% - to 3 million 699 thousand.
It is worth noting that greenhouses built thanks to the support of Cossack enterprises are ready to supply more than 48,000 tons of fresh vegetable products to the country's markets annually.
Kazatomprom uak, "expressing support for the course chosen by the head of state, assured that Kazakhstan will make every effort to achieve the strategic goal of entering the 30 developed countries of the world.
for example, within the framework of the "Business Roadmap 2020" for 3 years, 3.9 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of production infrastructure for 9 investment projects.
In the Soviet center, located in the Pyaterochka shopping center of Taldykorgan, Jasotanovites presented gifts to 27 children with disabilities, orphans and low-income families as charity assistance in honor of the New Year.
The program "Business Roadmap 2020" allocated 3.7 billion tenge.
We started another important project this year. there is another important project we have started this year .
They noted that cultural and social events held in 2014 were organized as part of the republican project "Road Map for Peace and Harmony," and these activities are combined with the provision of assistance and support to people with low living standards.
The new master agreement was developed taking into account the amendments and additions to the labour legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the legislation on trade unions adopted in 2014.
According to the Governor's office, to date, the number of transport occupied by electricity and gas has reached 850 units and accounts for almost half of the city's public transport.
the company installed Italian equipment "barbieri & torozzi."
Recall, on April 26, 2015, Nursultan Nazarbayev won the extraordinary presidential election at the initiative of Asammablei of the people of Kazakhstan, gaining 97.75% of the vote.
According to distributed information, the agenda discussed issues of reducing administrative barriers to business by reducing permits by 50% in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, earlier the film "Missing in Karaganda" won the nomination for the best documentary of 2014 and received the prize california film awards.
In accordance with article 5 of the Agreement, a legal person of a Contracting State may be exempted from paying tax in the next Contracting State if he or she carries out business activities without establishing a permanent institution.
This project will also bring additional volumes of electricity to the southern regions of Kazakhstan by 4 billion kWh more than now, "said M. Usainov.
According to him, first of all, amosis complexes will be put into operation, for the production of chemical reagents of Chemical Solutions LLP, a pharmaceutical plant, a plant for the production of optical wires, a power station with a capacity of 100 and 110 MW, Eskene Vzho LLP and the capacity of Pervomaisky LLC will be increased.
we are raising billions of dollars to central Asia. we attract billions of dollars in central asia .
Since the beginning of the flood, a temporary dam was built for 12 km, 3.2 km of dams were restored, more than 51 thousand sandbags were laid.
alarm buttons. "
for many years, the adaptation center has 28,738 patronage/hour - children have help to carry out charity events and sporting events, the report said.
To solve this problem, in 2015 it is planned to open 17 preschool organizations with 2470 seats, including the construction of new kindergartens at the expense of the republican and local budgets, the opening of private kindergartens and mini-centers.
Today, for the first time in the Central Asian and post-Soviet space, Kazakhstan has 19 specialized courts with special jurisdictional powers in civil, administrative and criminal cases involving minors and in relation to the protection of children's rights.
such well-known companies of Kazakhstan as Kazakhzholstroy, "", "", "", "" Turks, "" cinemidasstroy, "" Italians "todini," as well as local "Taldykorgan roads," "" Kapshagai bridge "" and other companies conduct construction work.
On January 15, the victory will be awarded to the pupils of the republican school named after the hero of the Soviet Union, the national hero, army general sagadat nurmagambetov.
18 thousand women (29%) were employed in these projects.
Today, all apartments are harmonized in cities, in the capital 86 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 7.6 thousand square meters, in Almaty 803 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 43.7 thousand square meters, families, kostanay, kokshetau, "said the chairman of the board of National Managing Holding" Baiterek "kuandyk bishimbev.
In this context, fruitful interaction between Kazakhstan's national company expo-2017 and the highest committee of dubai world expo-2020 was noted.
Recall that the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev at the VI Forum of the mining industry said that in the middle of this year it is planned to approve the concept of the Code "On subsoil" and its adoption in 2016.
According to the National Bank, as of March 1, 2015, employers listed mandatory professional pension payments in the amount of 32.6 billion tenge on the accounts of persons employed in harmful industries, "Argandykov explained.
These plans are aimed at the participation of citizens in infrastructure projects implemented along the beam road, as well as in other private and public programs, ensuring employment as part of the 2020 Employment Roadmap, Duissenova said.
During the forum it will be discussed new "nrla zhol" economic policy of the country.
Last year West Kazakhstan region produced products worth 448.9 billion tenge. last year , the project commissioned in west kazakhstan region produced goods worth 448.9 billion tenge .
Aktobe hosts the action "My Veteran" to help 76 participants and disabled people of the Great Patriotic War in need of repair.
it was decided that if the holding has 100% structure, then it should release 50%, if slightly more than 50 percent 25%, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
During the briefing, issues of implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Trade Unions," adopted in 2014, the activities of the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the activities of branch trade unions and dispute resolution will be discussed.
In turn, the Eurasian Economic Commission proposes to comply with the regional principle of exhaustion of rights by 2020 with the abolition of production localization in such a way as to switch to parallel imports.
in Aktobe - 808, Aktobe - 521, Almaty - 883, Atyrada - 232, east - 1079, Zhambyl region - 461, in western Kazakhstan - 523, in Karaganda - 784, in Kyzylorda - 345, Kostanay - 847, Mangistau -177, Pavlodar -576, in northern Kazakhstan -709, in southern Kazakhstan - 1029, in the city of Astana - 254, in Almaty - 513, "he said at a briefing in the CEC.
Astana Economic Forum is an international and regional discussion platform in the capital of Kazakhstan.
According to the national company, a total of 38 objects will be built within the framework of the exhibition, including a scientific and technical park, centers of culture and art, residential complexes and hotels, a zone of trade, leisure and sports, and public zones.
From May 26, 2015, these requirements (except for the requirement for the presence of light in daytime traffic, which is introduced on January 1, 2017) will be monitored by employees of the internal affairs bodies at the initial registration of vehicles.
we must preserve and develop this, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In addition, in order to support business, more than 1000 square meters of space were acquired to host business service centers for infrastructure development at the expense of the local budget.
If the project is put into operation, 370 permanent jobs will be created, and working personnel will improve knowledge at enterprises in Germany, England and Holland.
According to Anatoly Balushkin, chairman of the board of directors of the automotive group, the plant, which is planned to be launched this year, will produce 120 thousand cars per year.
As part of the first stage of the implementation of high-quality passenger services on turlyar-talgo trains, in accordance with modern requirements, 140 employees received special documents.
during the action, the words "homeland," "new economic policy," "main values," "political culture," "tolerance" and "young generation of the state" were often heard.
In 2015, in the Koksu district of Almaty region and Zhambyl district of Zhambyl region, irrigation systems will be reconstructed on an area of ​ ​ 27.3 thousand hectares, the Ministry of Agriculture reported.
In May, general land and construction work will begin. since may , excavation and general construction work will begin .
along the route Astana-Karaganda-Balkhash-Kurt-Kapshagai-ont, including the Yekaterinburg-Almaty direction of republican significance "territory of the Russian border" 2380-2152 km. planning of processing works involves the following design institutes: Kazzholproduct LLP, Doris LLP, Geodesy Group LLP.
In 2014, the work carried out in the field of agriculture was aimed at increasing the production of gross output and made it possible to reach 283.5 billion tenge with a physical index of 102.6%.
the men's side of the teams performed more difficult tasks: running on grass up to 24 kg by 25 meters, running 100 meters, assembling hands in weight categories up to 70 and 85 kg, performing power exercises on the tournament (power output, rollover).
According to him, social projects were implemented in the framework of the Pobeda-70 project together with the Union of Veterans of Kazakhstan.
According to the national company, the organizers of the event are the national company Astana Expo-2017, the coalition to support the green economy and the development of g-global, the British Embassy in Kazakhstan, the international secretariat g-global, acbot and the land fund "sustainable development." of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Secretary of State noted the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Ecu, as evidenced by the country's chairmanship in this organization in 2010.
In addition, as noted by the President of Kazakhstan, the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" was a great success, thanks to which thousands of Kazakhstanis found work
At the beginning of 2014, inflation was low in eurozone countries, while consumers postponed large purchases and investments, expecting further price declines.
Recall that in connection with the signing on May 29 in the capital of an agreement on the creation of the eeo, the head of state noted the need to create a common market for financial services.
At the same time, he noted that graduates of the "future" program amount to 11 thousand people, of which 8 thousand - to study, know and serve in the country, and 2 thousand - to study abroad.
a new refinery with a capacity of 12 million tons per year at the offshore field and a capacity of 9.4 billion m/cc. m/year. objects of back pumping of raw gas. this large project includes the construction of a new oil refinery with a capacity of 12 million tons per year and reinjection of sour gas with a capacity of 9.4 billion cubic meters per year in tengiz .
in addition, 3536 inspections were carried out by state bodies at the initiative of entrepreneurs themselves to clarify certain legal facts of their activities and 232 inspections in the activities of financial organizations that are not subject to a moratorium.
The Republic of Kazakhstan identified the countries of aid: Portugal (38th place), Greece (40), Spain (41), Chile (45), Mexico (58), Turkey (68) and Malaysia (52), and from the brix countries: China (64), Brazil (78), Oar (92), India (100).
After the statement of the heads of delegations, a report was heard by the leadership of the regional anti-terrorist structure on the work done in the second half of 2014 and in the first quarter of 2015, "the statement said.
in this regard, he voiced the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev at an expanded government meeting "taking into account the current economic situation" "it is necessary to increase the number of support measures by replenishing the program with new anti-crisis measures. - "the government should now create an additional fund in the amount of 250 billion tenge for timely adoption of operational, urgent measures."
In addition, the concept of interregional and cross-border cooperation of CIS member states until 2020 and the action plan for its implementation will be discussed.
there is no reason for concern, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
2.9 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
As part of Kazakhstan's peacekeeping activities, the deployment of Armed Forces officers as observers from Haiti, Western Sahara, Côte d'Ivoire and Liberia (up to 5 troops per mission) is currently envisaged as observers.
The international tournament of Kazakhstan open 2015 is a great opportunity for each participant not only to demonstrate their ability to dance, but also to stimulate people with disabilities, "said the secretary of the party" Nұr Otan "farhad kuangans.
all these works provide for the implementation of the Concept of the development of the tourism industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020 (including the development of domestic tourism) and the "capital - the heart of Eurasia," the "free" - the free cultural zone of Kazakhstan, the "unity of nature" and nomadic cultures, the "Altai pearls," the "revival of the great silk road," the creation of regional cultural and tourist clusters "Caspian gate."
The report also notes that since 2010, labor productivity in metallurgical production has increased by 59%, from 68.2 thousand dollars per person to 108.2 thousand dollars in 2014.
This year, Kazagrofinance will launch the Grain Harvest program.
at the same time, positive growth indicators were observed in agriculture (2.7%), construction (2.0%), transport (3.5%), trade (2.8%), information and communications (3.0%).
Kazakhstan is our important trade and economic partner in Central Asia. kazakhstan is our important trade and economic partner in central asia .
In it, representatives of Kazakhstan and Mongolia noted that the main document that will serve as the basis for the desire of the two countries for cooperation is the agreement on friendly relations between states, signed in October 1993, "the press service of the parliament said.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the festive program will organize competitions in 7 sports: ice hockey, winter presidential multi-stage competitions, speed skating, biathlon, ball hockey, cross-country skiing.
In anticipation of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, in our city, as part of the Veteran My Veteran campaign, the houses of 76 veterans and disabled people of the Great Patriotic War who need housing repairs are being repaired.
As part of the implementation of the memorandum of understanding between the commission and fao, signed in November 2013, a plan has been developed with a number of joint measures.
erlan Abilfayzovich idrissov - Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Recall, on February 17 of this year, at an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, Minister T.Duissenova said that Kazakh specialists are making efforts to improve the quality of services in the field of health and social and labor.
we take into account all these challenges, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In total, 83 investment projects worth 691.1 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map of the region with the creation of 10.7 thousand jobs during the construction period and the creation of 11.8 thousand jobs during the commissioning period, the Department of Internal Policy of the region reported.
Currently, 1 million 191.8 thousand people or 15.4% of the population live in rural settlements, where there are no public service centers and branches of the State pension center.
The Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan plans to allocate funds totaling 20 million tenge to organize tournaments in the republic and send athletes to a number of international competitions held in 2015
The Senate considered a draft law "On the ratification of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the French Republic on the conditions for the creation and operation of the space remote sensing system and the assembly and testing complex of spacecraft of October 6, 2009."
In order to prevent traffic accidents and ensure road safety, 18 traffic lights were installed at the main streets and intersections of the city in 2014.
"The Kunshuak dance ensemble in the culture house of the village of Wil, Aktobe region, in the winter season was held from 96 teams from all over Kazakhstan," the report said.
Currently, more than 626.7 thousand disabled people live in Kazakhstan, of which 64.5% are of working age, 16% of working capacity for health reasons (66.6 thousand people), and 20% (82.6 thousand people) are already working.
Recall, on December 26, 2014, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs distributed an information message with a proposal to introduce temporary trade restrictions, including those allowed by agreements within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on the dismissal of military servicemen who served the prescribed period of military service and the next draft of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan for urgent military service in April-June and October-December 2015.
from the moment of receiving the combat order, the commanders of the junior officer must correctly understand the algorithm of actions and know the role of each subordinate, "said the commander of the military unit 31775.
The signing on 17 November 2009 of a memorandum of understanding between the Attorney General's Office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation was the first step in the legal settlement of such cooperation.
He noted that the National Modernization Commission took into account the implementation of 5 institutional reforms, coordinated government bodies and guided the business sector and civil society.
It is reported that another 17 enterprises that took part in the competition received letters of thanks signed by the head of the presidential administration Nurlan Nigmatulin.
In 2015, in order to increase the company's efficiency, the offices of subsidiaries of Kazatomprom Uak JSC for uranium production in the Kyzylorda region will be moved from Almaty to Kyzylorda.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of international cooperation.
He also noted that the agreement is the first international agreement for the EU and opens the way not only for the Vietnamese state, but also for the countries of Southeast Asia with a population of 600 million people.
We associate the possibility of successfully holding the 2017 World Winter Universiade and the right to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in Alma-Ata only with your name, "the students write.
In turn, they highlighted the constructive role of Kazakhstan in the negotiations on nuclear programs, thanking for the negotiations held in Almaty in 2013 and consisting of two stages.
Issues of Kazakh-Russian bilateral cooperation were discussed during the talks.
A thousand-strong team of the Almaty bridge plant, in which representatives of 37 nationalities work, wrote a letter asking for the nomination of the head of state for the presidential election.
Thailand is interested in strengthening bilateral trade, economic and investment cooperation with Kazakhstan.
The presidential election is an important political event for our country. the election of the president is the most important political event for our country .
The red flag of Victory 70 years ago our compatriot R. Shkarbayev and his fellow countryman g.b.ulat.
26 participants in the Great Patriotic War not only went through the battle path, but also saw the post-war burden and devoted their lives to service in the civil protection system.
cadets performing military service on a contractual basis in the ground forces in various regions of Kazakhstan, in 5 months mastered combat training and skills, improved their professional skills.
During the visit 121 memoranda were signed between national companies, systemically forming enterprises, akimats on expansion of the domestic share of goods totaling 960 billion tenge, - said B. Sagintayev.
In addition, if the car owner bought the car in 2014, but brought it after January 1, 2015, the tax is not paid, respectively, tax liability is still not borne.
In addition, 14 business support centers were opened in district centers and small towns, such as emba, feed and iron.
Until 2014, the situation was as follows: 58% of inspections were carried out in the weak risk group, 25% in the medium risk group, 18% in the high risk group. prior to 2014 , the situation was as follows : 58 % of inspections carried out in the group with low risk , 25 % in the group with an average risk and 18 % in the group with a high degree of risk .
During the meeting, a number of issues of international cooperation were also discussed.
In the event of a moratorium, without prejudice to the rights of entrepreneurs, the prosecutor's office of Astana identified 255 unused land plots with a cadastral value of 575.7 billion tenge. for example , 255 unused sites of cadastral value of 575.7 billion tenge were identified by conducting off-site analysis of the prosecutor 's office of astana , 2.7 thousand hectares of land of them have been already returned to the state , " the message reads .
This may be the reason that 4 years ago Western European countries announced the non-implementation of a multi-seat policy in them, "said M. Shaykemelev.
issues of social protection and material assistance - 21.4%.
According to the Governor's Office, the head of the region instructed within 3 weeks to determine the potential of each production facility and prepare a plan of measures to increase production.
funds will be used to implement projects "center-south," "center-east," "aktobe-atyrau-astrakhan," "zhetybai-zhanaozen" and "usynash-otar."
To achieve our goals and indicators, the need of the processing industry for investments is 6.6 trillion tenge, and from the state budget - 600 billion tenge, - representatives of the joint-stock company noted.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment, industrial, as well as cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed.
During the talks, the parties noted the high level of political, trade, economic, investment cooperation between the two countries, stressing the importance of organizing the visit of the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe to Kazakhstan in 2015 in the direction of further deepening of bilateral strategic partnership.
in the country - 20% of Almaty money, 27% of tax revenues, 50% of retail and wholesale trade, a fifth of foreign trade turnover, 60% loan portfolio of second-tier banks, the akim said.
To date, there are 179 lakes of local importance in the region, including the small island sea, the Syr Darya river and fisheries, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
Within the framework of the program for the development of oncological care in the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2014 74 a specialist in the field of oncology, including pediatric oncology and hematology; clinical morphology and oncocytology; high-tech radiotherapy, nuclear medicine, radiosurgery and brachytherapy.
In this regard, N.Nazarbayev noted that these 100 steps will be a response to global and internal challenges and are at the same time a plan to join the composition of 30 developed countries in new historical conditions.
The launch of the kazakhstan chemical company LLP is scheduled for the 4th quarter of this year.
Kazatomprom will direct funds to refinance its Eurobonds, the maturity of which expires in May 2015.
At the same time, 321 people visited public reception councils of public consent as part of the "My Kazakhstan Train" campaign and shared their thoughts on individual and universal issues.
Kazakhstan is open for business, it is the best state in Central Asia, where the conditions for doing business are created.
in total, it is planned to spend 796 billion tenge on the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2015, 379 billion tenge in 2016, and 3 billion dollars in 2017.
down payment (advance) for leasing - 30% of the cost of the leased item, a grace period for the payment of principal debt - up to 6 months, additional expenses (insurance, service and agency services) are paid at the expense of the lessee.
for the conscientious performance of official duties, for the contribution to the development and improvement of the state civil protection system and in connection with the celebration of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan, Defender of the Fatherland Day and Victory Day, 128 committee employees were awarded departmental awards.
The volume of cargo turnover in January 2015 amounted to 40.7 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation of goods) and increased by 22% compared to January 2014. the volume of freight traffic in january 2015 has amounted to 40.7 billion ton-kilometers ( accounting for the total freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation ) and increased by 22 % compared with january 2014 .
this will fully ensure domestic demand for light oil, by 2017 increase the total capacity of plants by 18.5 million tons per year.
The two-story building, which occupies 700 square meters, employs specialists from such bodies as land relations, entrepreneurship support, agriculture and construction, the regional chamber of entrepreneurs, banks and financial institutions.
As we see, on April 26 at 11:00 a third of the population voted for presidential candidates, 68.48% were chosen at 14:00, today, according to the results, 90% of the population came to the polls. we have noticed that at 11 am on april 26 , one third of the population voted in favor of the candidate for president of kazakhstan , at 14 pm 68.48 % expressed their will , the result for today - more than 90 % of the population came to the polls .
11 applications for privatization of housing facilities worth 228.8 million tenge were received on privatization of property outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the food basket combines 43 names of basic food products, including meat, fish, milk, butter, bread, fruit and vegetable products, eggs, sugar, tea and spices, the report said.
In the first quarter of 2015, the country's power plants produced 25.1 billion kV/h of energy, the volume of consumption of which remained at the level of the same period last year, "said B. Arsenov.
A nationwide action was held in the North Kazakhstan region, within the framework of which 287 veterans of the Great Patriotic War received congratulatory papers and gifts on behalf of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the mutual dialogue, the Kazakh ambassador presented to the head of isesko the preparations for the extraordinary presidential elections scheduled for April 26, providing general information on the agenda of the V Congress and important political events in the country.
introduction of a model for increasing the level of wages of civil servants and civil servants in the b corps, an increase in benefits for disabled people who lost their breadwinner from July 2015 to 2016.
- a workshop for the production of wood-polymer products with a capacity of 35 thousand cubic meters per year, 655 tons of window and door frames, 14 thousand cubic meters of siding and 9.6 thousand cubic meters of enclosing piles, 15 jobs (Soyuzenergopolimer LLP) will be created.
The event was attended by 180 people, including members of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, kha members, eco leaders, employees of RAO "Public Consent," artists of Kazakh pop and lawyers, doctors and farmers.
During the meeting, information was presented on the implementation of the plan of multilateral inter-district consultations within the CIS for 2014, a similar document for 2015 was approved.
In general, the implementation of the measures of this plan contributed to the additional production of 270 thousand tons of oil, which significantly reduced the lagging behind the plan in the republic, "he explained. carabaline.
In 2014, 2,365 patients were assisted by 2,366 medical services, including obstetric and genetic pathology - 428 women, 390 newborns, 538 children, 496 injuries (including 183 victims of traffic accidents), 342 patients with circulatory diseases.
The Governor of the region, having familiarized himself with the events held this year, noted that this year new educational institutions for 600 places will be put into operation in the village of Chirkaili, in the village of Shagan for 900 places.
The topic of the round table with the participation of representatives of the national management holding Baiterek and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan is devoted to the implementation of the Program for the Development of Regions - 2020 to strengthen housing infrastructure, the national holding reported.
It is worth noting that due to the time difference, our compatriots in the eastern country managed to make their choice in 5 hours.
In accordance with article 55 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Elections" and a special resolution, the 16th session of the party decides to nominate n.nazarbayev.
Last year, the city bus fleet was replenished by 30% with new public transport, this year it is planned to be updated by 100%, "said the chairman of the board of Baikonur.
Taraz sugar factory increased production by 42%, Zhambyl cement plant - by 22%.
The rating of city multidisciplinary hospitals for adults was: the first place is the city hospital No. 1 of Astana, the second place is the Kostanay city hospital, the third place is the Rudnensky city hospital.
Hungary is an important trade and economic partner for Kazakhstan. hungary is important trade and economic partner for kazakhstan .
According to the Department of Statistics of the region, in January of this year 146.5 million passengers were transported by road, city electric transport of the region, which is 5.6% more than in January 2014.
It should also be noted that since September 2007, a new training programme for medical personnel (including pediatricians) has been introduced in all medical universities in the country, which provides for an increase in the length of training of clinical doctors.
10 applications for privatization of housing facilities worth 228.2 million tenge were received on privatization of property outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The heads of state noted the special importance of the implementation by the conflicting parties of the ceasefire agreement within the established hours (February 2015, 15 hours 00.00 year), the report said.
According to the organizers, this competition is one of the qualifying tournaments for the 2015 Asian Championship, which will be held in Rio de Janeiro in 2016.
In the afternoon, the Deputy Prime Minister visited the construction sites of a number of sports and infrastructure facilities, including ice palaces with 12 and 3 thousand seats and an athletic village, and also got acquainted with the preparations for the 2017 Winter Universiade.
Since 2006, students of universities and colleges will travel by city public transport at a discount, and representatives of talented youth are awarded an annual scholarship. since 2006 all students of aktobe 's universities and colleges have preferential discounts for travel on public transport , and promising and talented young students are awarded scholarships .
According to plans related to the shores of Irtysh, roads and 3 playgrounds with a length of 2.5 kilometers for running and cycling, exercise devices for training, new lights and seats and biotualets are installed there.
At the same time, as the chairman of the Uzbek ethnocultural center noted, all 17 million people should contribute to further strengthening unity and harmony.
Producers of Almaty region, who offered citizens of the city food at 50 denominations below the market by 15-20%, held seasonal fairs.
For the first time in the post-Soviet space, a republican public commission began to operate from our country in 2005, which controls the conduct of elections.
this is news for Kazakhstan.
On March 30, 2015, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan and professional pharmaceutical associations signed memorandums of cooperation to contain prices for 200 items of medicines and medical products.
According to the Ministry, the ratification of the convention provides additional services to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of 627 persons with disabilities and their families living in Kazakhstan.
In 2014, 12 projects of local entrepreneurs worth 433 million tenge were approved by the regional coordinating council for obtaining subsidies, expanding the greenhouse complex and ore processing, creating a printing house, road services, taxis, mini-kindergartens.
at the same time, 17.3 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of educational facilities, 12.7 billion - 20 billion tenge - to support the agro-industrial complex, 10 billion tenge - to provide a state order in the field of preschool education within the framework of the Balapan program "Within the framework of the program" Business Roadmap - 2020 "will be aimed at attracting infrastructure, 5 billion tenge - to protect the domestic market, 6 billion tenge - to resume exploration, 30 billion tenge - to increase the volume of house construction, "A.Milutin said.
After numerous bureaucratic processes with 28 member states of the European Union, we will sign this agreement and begin concrete work, "he said.
this program has many advantages. this program has many advantages .
The Almaty Office will play a leading role in the development of primary health care, both at the global level and for the European regions, which include 54 countries of the world.
1st place Moscow State University (Russia, Moscow) 2nd place - Physics and Mathematics School of Yerevan State University (Armenia, Yerevan) Sofia Mathematical School (Bulgaria, Sofia) 3rd place - Chelyabinsk Lyceum No. 31 (Russia, Chelyabinsk) and School No. 199 "Komarov" (Georgia, Tbilisi) and the Lyceum of the Belarusian orussian State an University e (Moscow)
So, by the festive date, participants of the Second World War were allocated from 25 thousand to 100 thousand tenge of one-time assistance from the republican budget, and from the local - from 30 thousand to 150 thousand tenge.
v.s. the schoolboy noted that "the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan has developed a plan aimed at supporting industrial enterprises for 2015, as well as a working group on the development of mechanical engineering for the energy sector of the economy, the main goal of which is to open new industries for the production of Kazakh products."
here you can especially note the cooperation between the supreme committee "dubai world expo-2020" and "astana expo-2017."
for example, representatives of 350 enterprises producing bread, bread products, flour products, dairy products, in order to support the action, pasted the signs "the voice of every citizen is important" on their goods.
The Minister noted that 2015 will be a special year for the country and this year several anniversary events will be celebrated, in particular, the 550th anniversary of Kazakh statehood, the 20th anniversary of the founding of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In accordance with the order of the Head of State, Samruk-Energo plans to optimize investment costs taking into account the economic situation of 2015 by 28,146 million tenge (or 23%) and current expenses totaling 10,824 million tenge (or 6%).
Today, at the meeting of the Central Election Commission, samples of election documents and the calendar plan of the main preparatory measures for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015, were approved.
Work was also carried out on the reconstruction and repair of 174 km of roads of regional and regional significance, streets of settlements in the amount of 8.5 billion tenge.
According to him, the participating countries are developing a methodology for creating an indicator of the balance of gas, oil and petroleum products until July 1 of this year, so that the general market begins its work.
your victory is another stage in the direction of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world, this is successful progress towards becoming our eternal country, the letter says.
in particular, the parties discussed the development of political, trade, economic, investment, military-technical and cultural-humanitarian cooperation, cooperation in the field of security.
It is worth noting that over the past five years Kazakhstan has introduced 7 small hydropower plants, 6 wind farms and 3 solar power plants with a total capacity of 32 MW.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of Kazakhstan provide this assistance within the framework of the strengthened partnership created by both sides in May 2014, "the statement said.
According to the speaker of the Senate, he has achieved great success in combating the spread of vapour disease, which coordinates the work of 11 organizations.
It is reported that under the program "Agriculture" three people received loans in the amount of 6 million 400 thousand tenge. under the Murrabaha program, 4 people worth 10 million 886 thousand tenge, under the entrepreneur program, 7 people worth 21 million 950 thousand tenge, Under the Rural Mortgage program, 41 people received loans worth 111 million 110 thousand tenge.
A walk of fame for veterans of the Great Patriotic War and rear workers has been opened on the territory of the specialized fire department No. 2 "ZhD ns and Akzhk" (fire fighting and rescue service) of Astana.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, in 2014 about 7.7 billion tenge was allocated for reconstruction, major and medium repairs, maintenance of local roads and streets of settlements.
Following the results of the championship, the national team of Kazakhstan will be formed, which will visit the international championship in August 2015 in the city of Sao Paulo (Brazil), in which more than 1300 people from 72 countries will take part.
we will simplify all procedures significantly, "the president said.
In accordance with the grant agreement on the project "Energy Efficiency Improvement in Kazakhstan" dated June 18, 2014, only projects with economic justification for energy efficiency in socially significant facilities will be implemented.
In accordance with article 2 of the agreement, the competent public authorities of the requesting party shall consider the request of the competent authorities applying.
every year, about a thousand people undergo vocational training in specialties in demand on the labor market, about 5 thousand unemployed citizens participate in public works.
A polyclinic with 250 places in the district center and new outpatient medical institutions in settlements work for the benefit of the population, "said the mayor of the district.
According to the deputy chairman of the board, they will be trained in the development of educational and planning documentation for the work and are ready to work within the framework of the new program from September 1 of this year.
We plan in 2017 during the exhibition to introduce them to the traditions associated with the celebration of the March holiday, "said the managing director of Astana Expo-2017.
this is not a commercial project. this project is not commercial .
By the end of the year, coverage of children by preschool institutions in the region should reach 96%, and in the city of Petropavlovsk - 86%.
Last year, 34.8 km of gas supply networks, 124.6 km of electric networks, 201 km of water supply networks were commissioned in the city.
education (79 per cent), housing and nutrition services (75 per cent), health and social services (69 per cent).
According to the statistics committee, 129,335 people study at the expense of state educational grants, which is 27.1% of the total number of students, 12,536 people or 2.6% study at the expense of the state educational order, 335,516 people or 70.3% on a paid basis.
every citizen should actively express his civic point of view, whether we choose our future, "said an employee of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, who arrived with his family at polling station No. 89.
From January 1 of next year, the participating countries should develop a concept of a common market for gas, oil and petroleum products, where goals and objectives will be defined.
According to the head of the department, the ministry, together with local authorities, will provide school and vocational organizations with textbooks and a teaching and methodological complex until August 10 of this year.
meat production compared to last year increased by 2.2% to 96 kg, milk - by 3.9% and amounted to 825 kg, eggs - by 12.3% and amounted to 957 pieces.
In general, to date, 26 projects related to the construction of meat and egg poultry farms have been financed through Kazagro financial institutions, the total productivity of which is 85 thousand tons of poultry meat and 654.1 million eggs.
Unfortunately, the share of funds allocated for basic applied research is 84%, 16% falls on development work, "said T. Balykbaev.
On the basis of the Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology and Radiology, 18 leading foreign specialists from Russia, Latvia, South Korea, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Israel and the Czech Republic were invited, who improved the qualifications of 183 specialists in topical oncology issues.
in particular, the Governor's Office will be given a stationary medical unit with 20 beds, a kindergarten with 280 seats, a cultural and sports center with a stadium, the Palace of Culture "Dream," a bath and wellness complex, a hotel complex and Shieli-energy service LLP.
according to him, if we talk about the potential for technical energy saving, then this is approximately 39 million tons of coal equivalent or 44% of all energy consumed in the country.
Within the framework of the forum there are 5 branch sections: cooperation in the mining and metallurgical complex, energy and oil refining industry, mechanical engineering, construction industry, chemical industry, transport infrastructure and logistics and light industry.
of these, 66 projects on the modernization of heating networks, 15 projects on heat supply, 8 projects on water disposal, 7 projects on water supply. of these , 66 projects are for modernization of heat supply networks ; 15 projects are for heatsource ; 8 projects are for sanitation and 7 projects are for water supply .
In 2018, the construction of the Aktogai mining and processing plant and the mining and processing complex of the copper mining enterprise continues.
As a result, the data of 531 heroes of the Soviet Union and 124 holders of orders of glory were restored, each of which was opened a "personal leaflet of business."
Kazakhstan intends to ensure the most transparent, clean and fair elections in accordance with domestic legislative norms and high international standards and hopes for constructive interaction with international observers who will come to Kazakhstan to evaluate the presidential elections approved on April 26 this year, the report said.
It is worth noting that in the labor market of Akmola region the need for medium-technical specialists this year exceeded about 4,000 people.
Following the meeting, the Governor of the region gave a number of instructions, including to develop a regional plan of measures to implement the "100 concrete steps" of the head of state.
98% of program graduates are employed, 45% of them use their knowledge in state institutions and organizations, 2.5% in national companies, 11% in international organizations, 39.5% in the private sector.
According to the organizers of the championship, the backup dod will be held in accordance with the technical requirements of the fisu and tumor (international skating union) and will become the second test competition of the international level before the xxviii world Winter Universiade 2017 in Almaty.
The competition was attended by 12 best tank crews from 4 teams consisting of ground forces: regional commands "south," "west," "east" and airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2017-2018, Kazakhstan will nominate its candidacy for membership in the UN Security Council.
In addition, the ceremony of presenting passports and identity cards to citizens who have reached the age of 16 will be held on Constitution Day within the national campaign, which will begin in August of East Kazakhstan region.
In addition, 6,400 tons of products capable of withstanding competition per month will be sent to a neighboring country, and thousands and a half of tons of high-quality table salt will be sent to Kyrgyzstan.
an effective system of state support for the languages ​ ​ of ethnic groups has been created: 6 Sunday schools of ethnocultural associations/Ukrainian, German, Karis, Chechen, Tatar-Bashkir, Azerbaijani/native language and state language.
In 2015, it is planned to expand the runway to 400 meters and expand the width to 60 meters, "said Deputy Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee Serik Muktybayev.
In the first quarter of this year, the committee issued 5 certification certificates of forensic addiction, forensic psychiatric experts, 7 qualification certificates giving the right to provide certain types of forensic expertise.
During the negotiations, 17 states (Azerbaijan, Angola, Armenia, Belarus, Germany, Georgia, India, Kyrgyzstan, Monaco, Russia, Senegal, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Israel and Turkey) and 3 international organizations (atmeak, eidu and bundu) officially confirmed their participation in the exhibition in the capital.
Through the introduced acts, 140 illegal competitions were canceled, and expenses on the economic interests of the state in the amount of more than 25 billion tenge were prevented.
In turn, this measure will allow you to answer 12 low-power boiler houses.
this method is characterized by spending up to 60% of the cost of maintaining and growing fish less than in ponds with a water treatment plant.
In this context, the 2nd meeting of the high-level dialogue "eu - oa" on security issues, held on Monday, March 11, was approved, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
youth of the eternal country - into the industry! The project has been implemented since 2014, it is aimed at training the necessary specialists in the labor market and increasing the migration activity of young people.
The frequent participation of UNESCO leaders and its top representatives in the 2006, 2009 and 2012 meetings of the congress can be recognized as a recognition of the importance of establishing a fruitful dialogue between religious and political leaders and their responsibility for the situation in the modern world.
Due to the significant increase in the number of 70 ministers of agriculture and foreign delegations from all continents of the world, the current fair exceeded the 1926 record for the number of foreign participants.
The emir, highly appreciating the results of his visit to the capital in January 2014, noted that the President of Kazakhstan will again meet with Nursultan Nazarbayev during the planned visit of the head of state to the country.
From the beginning of the implementation of these projects, the main investments in the amount of 117 million tenge, including value added tax, will be mastered, "the director of the department concluded.
Special attention was paid to the preparation for the 7th meeting of the Kazakh-Syrian intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation in May 2015 and the organization of the visit of the Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani to Kazakhstan.
In January 2015, the volume of trade with markets and individual entrepreneurs increased by 6.3% compared to the corresponding period last year, the share of this distribution channel in the total volume of retail trade amounted to 43.7%.
today, for the first time in three years, the number of accidents decreased by 13%, the number of deaths - by 15%, the number of wounded - by 13.2%.
According to the results of October 2014, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Hungary amounted to 131.4 million dollars (an increase of 2.5%), last year it amounted to 128.2 million dollars.
this is a new turn, difficult work, we must overcome it.
in addition, the "gwe-group," "claas" held talks with the leaders of German companies on the deepening of cooperation.
in each region, 3 talented young people from large, low-income families will be identified, who will become the owners of the prize of the foundation of the first president.
The board discussed the issues of further effective functioning and development of the Eurasian Economic Union and the agenda of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, which will be held on May 8, 2015 at the level of heads of state.
Note that the soloists were selected at the Astana Opera Theater from March 13 to 17 from the hearings held by the director of artists of the carlo felice theater.
In 2015, it is planned to implement 6 projects on the territory of the industrial park, which will reach the design capacity immediately and create about 1,500 jobs, the report said.
Recall that in the capital on May 29, 2014, the presidents of the member states of the association signed an agreement with Alexander Lukashenko, Nursultan Nazarbayev, Vladimir Putin, as well as other international documents that are part of the legal framework of the EAEU.
In addition, in 2014, 117 specialists took advanced training courses in oncology, radiation diagnostics and radiation therapy on the basis of the Kazakh Research Institute of Oncology and Radiology.
According to the press service of the capital's akimat, 350 trees were planted on the territory adjacent to the palace of schoolchildren.
The total volume of gross output over the past 5 years has grown by more than 1.5 times and in 2014 amounted to 13.5 billion. US dollars (2.5 trillion tenge).
this project was implemented as part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" and the program "Agribusiness 2020."
for example, after 3 years he can become the head of the department, and after a certain time - the director of the department, "he said.
This issue was caused by the implementation of a document of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on "planned measures to support industrial enterprises for 2015," approved in January, the national company reported.
Currently, 241 public reception parties operate in the republic, providing not only free legal advice, but also assistance on specific issues.
during this time, 2,400 troops in 10 sports will take part in competitions (nine kumalok, skiing, gymnastics, small tennis, futsal, ka-1 and mp-1 service weapons, volleyball, swimming, all-around, athletics).
Recall that on the initiative of the International Cancer Union, World Cancer Day is celebrated annually in many countries of the world on February 4.
3 billion 42 million tenge is allocated from the budget for these purposes.
On February 4, 2015, an agreement was concluded on the creation of a regional innovation center (nio) on the basis of the Kostanay Engineering and Economics University named after M.dulatov.
According to the committee, according to the forecast for the fourth of June 2014, the share of fruitfully working among the self-employed amounted to 71.7%.
regional, capital and Almaty election commissions should ensure the delivery and issuance of ballots to precinct election commissions no later than April 24, 2015.
As part of the course, 600 cadets and 200 military personnel underwent course training in the specialty of a military transport driver, operator-conductor of tanks, artillery and zent formations.
As of March 1, 2015, 96 joint ventures for the production of textile, wine products specializing in wholesale trade in a wide range of products and 137 enterprises operating with German capital were registered in Almaty.
As a result of the MSW modernization program, 9 residential buildings were overhauled and reconstructed, cold and hot water supply networks were replaced.
According to the official website of the capital, 63.6 km of roads will be built and reconstructed, 24 km of roads in residential areas will be provided, 21 km of roads will be repaired.
permanent jobs have been created in agriculture (256), industry (64), construction (465), transport (73), trade (266), education and health (49), other industries (205).
The project is being implemented as part of the order of the head of state to solve infrastructure problems within the framework of the Concept for the Development of the Fuel and Energy Complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030, the report said.
During the meeting, the current state of inter-parliamentary relations between the two countries and ways of their further development were discussed, as well as the participation of representatives of the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015.
The exhibition is attended by representatives from 10 countries of the world, in particular, Great Britain, Canada, Jamaica, Oar, Japan, Korea, Poland, as well as from border Chinese, Russian enterprises and organizations, educational institutions.
As of December 1, 2014, the number of livestock in all categories of farms in the region amounted to 407.4 thousand heads, including 172.1 thousand cows, 524.9 thousand sheep, 75.7 thousand goats, 114.1 thousand horses, 68.2 thousand pigs and 940.3 thousand birds, the report said.
This year, during the implementation of state programs, first of all, under the program "Nұr zhol" and the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization, 170 thousand people are expected to be attracted, "said A. Issekeshov.
a master plan for the development of Kazakhstan, namely the volume of electricity consumption and production until 2030, will also be adjusted.
As part of the congress, the participants discussed the role of youth in implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, adopted the Zhas Otan youth wing program until 2020 and announced the completion of the rebranding of the youth wing.
During the international conference green bridge forum 2015, R.Zhoshybayev spoke about the ongoing work on the development of green energy in the country and Kazakhstan's initiatives in the field of renewable and alternative energy.
In the next few days in the village of Akmol it is planned to hand over keys from new apartments on 36 people and to put the new building of regional branch of Nr Otan party into operation.
this is 16% more than the industrial production of the region or 20.2% more than the processing industry.
As noted in the Committee of Science of Kazakhstan, in the summer of 2015 it is planned to hold the first meeting of the coordination group of the partnership program.
The main task of the ministry in 2014 was to fulfill the instructions of the head of state, including ensuring the socio-economic stability of our state, the department said.
It is worth noting that last year under the program 165 people (49 young people, 10 disabled people) received loans in the amount of 417.8 million tenge and got the opportunity to start their activities.
In general, in the East Kazakhstan region 37 dairy farms are being organized to collect milk from 115 settlements and supply 54% of the raw materials of local dairy plants.
In the 1st quarter of 2015, the number of passengers transported by all transport amounted to 70.6 million people, which is 109.2% compared to the same period in 2014.
To become one of the 30 developed countries by 2050, the service sector should grow 1.7 times by 2020 and become the main industry of the national economy.
The head of the city noted that 54 doctors received the keys to apartments as part of the housing program, as well as good health results.
In 2014, the Nұr Otan party, together with the Council of Veterans, systematized and fully restored information about 531 heroes of the Soviet Union and 124 cavaliers of the Order of Glory.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the akimat will allocate 74 billion tenge for the creation of equipment, cars, cables, valves, electrical equipment for large industries.
The head of the upper house expressed satisfaction with the dynamic development of Kazakhstan and Italy, which contributed to the negotiations between the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and the Prime Minister of Italy in June and October 2014, the Senate said.
This educational institution is fully equipped with an assembly hall with 60 seats, a canteen, 3 elementary classes, 1 multimedia room, computer science, physics, chemistry, technology, "the report said.
we have identified plans and specific cooperation projects that will be launched during the visit of the fraternal country's prime minister to Kazakhstan, he said.
The memorandum of cooperation reflects the priority areas for the implementation of the "Plan of Support of Production Enterprises for 2015," approved by the Government of Kazakhstan this year.
At the end of 2014, investments in fixed assets increased by 19.3%, construction work increased by 16.8%, trade turnover increased by 9.6%, the Governor's office reported.
According to the regional Governor's Office, a program of background environmental monitoring has been adopted, which provides for screening of 8 industrial facilities with special wastes in the region ("aluminum of Kazakhstan," "kam," "phz," "caustic," "petrocheme-ltd," "afz," "yeek").
Compared to 2013, export revenues increased by 16.7% and amounted to $8.8 million, import revenue increased by 8.4% and amounted to $449 million.
Maria Poltoratskaya, a veteran of World War II, was born in 1923 and spent her whole life in Kazakhstan, before the war the family moved to Russia in the city of Balashov, Saratov Region.
for example, along the route China - Kazakhstan - Europe, container transportation will increase by 15 times in the past three years.
The number of scientists aged 35 years increased over 4 years by 46% and amounted to 9.5 thousand people, and the number of scientists aged 45 years increased by 49% and amounted to 14.5 thousand people.
The head of state noted that the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan until 2050 is a strategic priority for the country in the economic market and it is necessary to increase GDP to 50%.
Within the framework of the signed memoranda, large retail chains ("anoir," "dina") are limited to a 10 percent premium to the yield price of the goods.
In addition, Shim LLP for the storage and sorting of vegetable products launched a vegetable terminal with a capacity of 3 thousand square meters. m per year.
The purpose of the regional headquarters is to identify problematic issues, consider comments and proposals of enterprises on technical regulations, which entered into force on February 15 of this year, the report said.
I believe that everyone should go to the presidential elections, we choose our future, "said the pensioner who voted in the extraordinary presidential elections in polling station No. 89 in Astana.
The Kazakh diplomat said that on June 10-11, 2015 Astana will host the 5th anniversary congress on the topic: "Dialogue of religious leaders and political figures in the name of peace and development."
members of the executive committee also heard reports on the preparation of representatives of the exhibition, which will be held in 2015 in Milan, in 2016 in Antalya, in 2019 in Beijing and in 2020 in Dubai.
In accordance with your instructions, 4 commissions have been created in party factions at meetings and maslikhats to monitor the implementation of the Nұr zhol program and the use of funds from the national fund, "the first deputy chairman of the party said.
Following the results of the extended meeting, the results of the international competition "City where I want to live" of the assembly - 2014 VII international competition of experience of Eurasian and CIS cities were summed up.
In 2014, 5 projects were launched, "said the Chairman of the Committee on Industrial Development and Industrial Safety of Kazakhstan Amaniyaz Yerzhanov.
The company also entered into agreements with such companies as Orika-Kazakhstan JSC, Non-Metallic Materials Plant LLC, Electromechanical Repair Plant LLC, Metallon-k LLC, skrp polyus LLC in the amount of $279 million.
in the two-story building there is a therapy department with 35 seats, an infectious disease department with 20 seats, a physiotherapy office, a dental office, a specialist doctor's office, a pharmacy, a conference room and a dining room.
In addition, according to the agency, since 2016, the state budget has been exempted from obligations to pay payments in the amount of 20% for financial support of employees of armed groups.
Today, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is leading the creative work of our country on the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol," which unites Kazakhstanis on the way to the present and great future of our common homeland.
As noted at the meeting, when completing the project of oil and white-water group water pipelines, the indicator of centralized water supply will increase by 14%.
that is, a total of 67 thousand activists work in the assembly, who work daily to preserve inter-ethnic harmony, "said S. Pulatov.
it got its name thanks to the work of Sergei Berdnik "all nomads" (2003), which is a combined example of the tradition of drawing.
According to forecasts, by 2050, in the current trend, the population of the northern regions will decrease by 0.9 million people, and in the southern regions it will increase by 5.2 million people.
the construction of this part will be completed in the year. " Nazarbayev.
It should be noted that the decree of the chief sanitary doctor of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 2007 prohibits the sale of carbonated and soft energy drinks, fried potatoes, chicken.
The President said about 100 steps, like ukp, we are ready to actively participate in this commission aimed at diversifying the economy, there are specific plans, we visited the regions, so we know what issues are interfering, and we are ready to work as part of this commission and solve the issues that the head of state poses, "he said.
In order to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan signed an order in 2015 defining the procedure for conducting inspections in the field of sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population, he said.
He noted that excavations of the ancient Taraz town and the "ancient taraz" park with infrastructure clogged on 20 hectares of land are important for the region.
The refinement of the budget for 2015 follows from the results of 2014, as well as the plan of macroeconomic indicators of this year and ensuring socio-economic and financial stability in world markets, "said B. Sultanov.
According to information, the solemn award took place in the Victory Pavilion with an exhibition dedicated to 109 heroes of the Soviet Union.
according to the ministry, today there are 850 colleges in the country, of which about half are privately owned.
At the end of 2014, the company received a net profit of 8.6 billion tenge, and we, as a public company, held a meeting of our team for the first time. at the end of 2014 the company had a profit in the amount of 8.6 billion tenge , and we held a general meeting of our team .
In particular, the head of state noted compliance with the work schedule, and also noted that the complex should be ready for commissioning in September 2016.
According to the press service, monitoring includes 53 republican print media, 16 republican television channels, 179 regional print media, 29 regional television channels, as well as 7 news agencies and 117 most popular socio-political Internet resources.
during this training, the team had to master a distance of 10 kilometers, that is, each of the participants had to withstand a sight from a sniper and automatic rifle, pistol, pump gun and pistol in the royal configuration.
Currently, according to the national plan, in 2014-2015, quotas for greenhouse gas discharge were allocated between 166 enterprises of energy, industry, oil and gas production, "said Energy Minister Vladimir Shkolnik.
At registered prices, the stabilization fund of the region purchased 11.5 thousand tons of fruit and vegetable products, 65 tons of rice, 64 tons of sugar.
Also, from January 1, citizens of Kazakhstan can register as entrepreneurs of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus without restrictions.
At the same time, the head of the board said that 18 intermediary companies participated in the subscription of shares, through which retail investors acted.
In 2010, 120 emergency outages were registered at Ekibastuz Maes-1, Ekibastuz Maes-2 and the Eek white power plant, in 2014 this figure was halved and 66 emergency cases were detected.
According to experts, despite the fact that the book was written in 2013, the author predicted global events and changes in the economy and international politics.
Also during the meeting, the head of the Department for the Regulation of Natural Resources and Natural Resources Kabidan Sadvakasov shared the results of 2014 and plans for 2015.
The PRC was founded in 1952 and today is the largest institution of the PRC to promote goods and services of Chinese companies to international markets.
50 steps - clear and comprehensively clarified decisions aimed at stimulating new high-tech economic growth and the development of human capital, aimed at improving the quality of life of Kazakhstanis.
As a result of modernization, the productivity of the West Siberian oil refinery also increased from 5 million to 7 million tons per year, the possibility of processing Kazakh oil in the amount of up to 5 million tons per year will be ensured.
GDP in 2015 will be 1.5%, in 2016 - 2.3%, in 2017 - 3.4%.
aa. Idrissov congratulated the interlocutor on the election of Germany to the post of chairman of the ecu in 2016 and confirmed the readiness of Kazakhstan to provide maximum support to resolve the issues posed to the organization.
Today, the list includes unique monuments of the history and culture of Kazakhstan (2003), petroglyphs tamgala (2004), steppes and lakes of northern Kazakhstan (2008) and objects in the chang-tian-shan part of the great silk road - the settlements of karalyk, karamergen, talgar, aktobe, akyrtas, kulan, costobe and pattern (2014).
As noted in Akmola Media-Center, for 3 thousand inhabitants of the rural district of Bosaigyr, the new medical outpatient clinic is a long-awaited joy, and now they will not get into the district center in search of treatment.
In turn, Finance Minister B. Sultanov reported on the preliminary results of last year in the budget sector, the tasks for 2015 facing the fiscal bodies.
During the first phase, British troops will conduct tactical exercises with 1 branch of the kazbat to increase the ability to carry out peacekeeping and international harmony activities at the company level.
After passing the interview, career guidance and determining the receptions of candidates, it was established that 7910 people will be able to take part in the implementation of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," 6043 Kazakhstanis - in the implementation of the project "Rise."
these skills have been especially important for Kazakhstan's local executive bodies since President Nursultan Nazarbayev in September 2014 marked a new stage in the centralization of the public administration system.
we are implementing 5 institutional reforms, the main goal of which is to improve the life of the population in all respects, as well as high-quality public administration, judicial and legal protection, the development of industry, and strengthening the unity of the people. we implement 5 institutional reforms , the main aim of which is improving the lives of people in all respects , including good governance , judicial and legal protection , the development of industry , strengthening the unity of the people .
military unit 36803, subordinate to the eastern regional command, was rated "excellent" and recognized as capable of performing a combat mission.
Within the framework of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020 7052 programs to promote the employment of unemployed, self-employed and low-income persons who are participants of the program, 4687.7 million tenge was allocated.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed to hold the next meeting of the Kazakh-Austrian working group on cooperation in the field of health in 2016 in Austria.
According to Kusainov, the completion of the construction of "nint" ea infrastructure will attract 1.8 trillion tenge, which will create 5 thousand permanent jobs during the construction of 1.5 thousand jobs.
currently 66 teachers and specialists of vocational education from all regions and cities of Kazakhstan are undergoing internships in Turkey.
On the territory of more than 14 thousand square meters there are 11 thematic halls, including halls for the capital, independent Kazakhstan, a golden hall, halls of ancient and medieval history, ethnography and modern art.
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
In addition, the increase in the number of patients is due to the implementation of 6 screening programs aimed at early detection of malignancies.
In accordance with resolution No. 66-2 of 15 December 2010, amendments to the articles "Revision of the fourteenth common quota and reform of the executive board" of IMF were approved.
- May 20, 2015 "poems and poems about life" (dedicated to the Kazakh poet f.ongarsynov...).
It is worth noting that in 2015 a number of new targeted transfers were provided.
According to him, 39 houses in 4 settlements of Tselinograd region were flooded in Akmola region due to the increase in the water level of the Nura River over the past day.
In 2014, the number of birds of all categories increased by 3.0% and amounted to 35,181,9 thousand heads, the growth in the number of birds in poultry farms - 6.5% and amounted to 22,821,8 thousand heads.
Also, within the framework of the memorandum, the national nuclear company will finance the construction of a maternity hospital for 150 beds in Kyzylorda for a total of 1.6 billion tenge and a clinic capable of simultaneously receiving 50 patients.
According to the national company, as of February 25, 2015, the food contract corporation received 600 applications from farmers from different regions totaling 5.3 billion tenge.
He noted that since the beginning of the year, a private kindergarten for 20 places has been opened in the Shortandy district, a private center for 20 places in the Zerendin district of the mini-center for 75 places, and a private center for 2 places in the Tselinograd district.
at the same time, most of the foreign labor force in the construction industry is 20.8 thousand people or 66.5%, in the mining industry - 2.3 thousand people (7.4%), processing industries - 1.6 thousand people (5.2%), in the field of administrative and auxiliary activities - 980 people (3.1%), in the field of agriculture, forestry and fisheries - 552 people (1.7%).
The deputy noted that the development of the tourism sector will contribute to the development of 32 industries: transport, communications, agricultural complex.
of which 32 people - as part of a company during the War in the historical part, 154 servicemen of all types and branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan - in the modern part.
this is not our first meeting. it is not our first meeting .
One of the steps in this area is the creation of an aviation hub, so in 2018 it is expected to open new air routes to all financial centers of the world, "said A. Issekeshev.
Today we have also created a capitalization fund to improve relations between the business communities of Kazakhstan and Hungary, for which both sides will allocate $20 million each. today , we have also created a fund of capitalization of 20 million dollars on each side , in order to help the relations between kazakhstan and the hungarian business community .
procurement of goods, work and activity of backbone enterprises amounted to 257 billion tenge, including the share of local content was at the level of 46.8% or 120 billion tenge.
there was also significant growth in the construction industry - 29.7%, metallurgical production - 18.5%, mechanical engineering - 9%, oil refining - 6.6%.
Since the beginning of the year, 1,175 people have been employed, 537 people have been covered by social jobs, 512 representatives of secondary and higher vocational education are aimed at creating jobs within the framework of youth practice.
During this time, brigades of checkpoints more than 2 thousand times went to the site and assisted more than 7 thousand people.
The Kazakh diplomat noted the long traditions of bilateral cooperation in the field of archival affairs and named as an initiative the agreement on cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Information of Kazakhstan and the National Archive of Finland signed in 2009 during the visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to Finland.
the subsistence minimum per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption of basic foodstuffs, increased by 9.8 per cent compared to 2013.
funds are distributed in the following order: the republican budget - 336 million tenge, the regional budget - 691 million tenge, holdings - 36,698 million tenge, accc - 2722 million tenge, the ministry said.
The Zhetybai-zhanaozen project will spend $140 million saved from loans from the Asian Development Bank, $213 million from the World Bank at the Uzynash-otar site.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, speaking at the event, which was attended by high-ranking representatives of the European External Action Service (esak), e. Idrissov noted the main priorities of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the messages of the President of Kazakhstan to the people "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
A budget loan in the amount of 60 billion tenge provides for the allocation of 7.5 billion tenge to the agrarian credit corporation Ak, 17.5 billion tenge to the Food Corporation, 35 billion tenge to financial institutions, "the statement said.
The Committee on Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2010 within the framework of the program "Drinking Water" began work on the construction of white and fat and oil group water pipelines in the Pavlodar region.
among them are Lieutenant Colonel E. Lieutenant Colonel D. 25744 30238 and Major, headed by Kashkumbayev There are 41,433 military units led by Nurgaziev, "the report said.
This year, only through KazagroFinance JSC in southern Kazakhstan, it is planned to introduce three more industrial greenhouses with a total design capacity of more than 6 hectares.
Currently, Kazakhstan has 1 million 191 thousand people or 15.4% of the country's population in rural settlements, where there are no branches of the service center and the state center for the payment of pensions.
Of the arrived compatriots, 368 people have higher education, secondary specialized education - 869 people, general secondary education - 2592 people, ignorance of education - 938 people.
Governor of the region visited the branch of the city hospital No. 1, where it is planned to overhaul the building as a diagnostic and consulting center.
According to him, oil production in 2015 will be 80.5 million tons and will be increased to 93 million tons by 2019.
the executive director of the bayan medetbaeva company noted that along with the cultivation of champignons in 2016, the plant will launch mushroom processing services.
Following the meeting, the heads of state submitted about 20 documents related to improving foreign policy coordination within the framework of the agreement, developing cooperation between the organization in the fields of military and military-economic, combating terrorism, information security and training.
The Coalition of Green Economy and Development g-global together with its Russian counterpart greenpic introduced a double technology - the production of vermiculting and the construction of a solar biovegetarium with an area of ​ ​ 1200 square meters (greenhouse of a new modification), - said A. Suleimenov.
In 2013, the committee selected the work of an American architect of Haitian descent from 310 projects from 83 countries, "the statement said.
Over the past period, the mobile application "soyle.kz" is constantly used by more than 20 thousand people, as well as more than 350 thousand people took advantage of the capabilities of this portal. Musabaev.
of which 32 people - as part of a company during the War in the historical part, 154 servicemen of all types and branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan - in the modern part.
At the same time, as the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted, work has begun on the development of the second tranche allocated from the National Fund in the amount of 100 billion tenge for lending and financing projects in the field of processing.
According to acting Head of the Department of Agriculture of the region Zhanar Musakulova, 85 applications totaling 112.7 million tenge were received in the first direction of Ank financial recovery.
Vladimir Putin spoke about the results of his talks with the leaders of Germany and France on February 6 in Moscow, as well as telephone conversations in the "Norman format" on February 8.
Within the framework of the meeting, it was noted that since 2013, when Kazakhstan received observer status for the African Union, there has been a gradual dynamics in the development of the country's comprehensive relations with African states.
To be included in the industrialization map, 27 projects totaling 487.7bn tenge are being considered, which will create 5.2 jobs.
Recall that in 2014, in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted the need to move to a new economic policy aimed at continuing economic growth and structural reforms.
the basis of our theater was created in 2007, there is no concept of national division on this square, so it should be called the theater of nations.
January 25-26, 2015 Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom JSC N. The Kazakh delegation led by Kapparov arrived in Doha, where she held talks with the management of the companies "qatar solar enerquy" (row) and "solar city" (aksh).
Earlier, the Chairman of the Science Committee of the Ministry of Education and Science of Joldasbayev noted that the law on commercialization of scientific projects will be adopted at the end of 2015.
On March 27, Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan A. Kravchenko will receive citizens in the republican public reception party "Nұr Otan."
Passenger traffic in January 2015 amounted to 1746.5 million passengers-kilometers, which is 5.7% more than in January 2014 and 1.7% less than in December 2014.
According to a 2014 World Economic Forum report, in a group of 57 countries, Kazakhstan ranked first in the prevalence of HIV infection with a low rate of 0.2%, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
This will allow the construction and overhaul of 266.3 km of heat supply, water supply, sanitation systems, the wear rate will decrease from 67% to 65%, "the vice minister added.
As part of the program "Innovative grants," grant holders paid taxes in the amount of 668.7 million tenge, produced products worth 15.5 billion tenge, of which 50% was sold for export.
According to the ministry, with the support of 5 international technology transfer centers, 22 international projects are being implemented together with the United States, South Korea, China, Japan, South Korea, China, Norway and France.
Given the great potential of our field in the development of livestock, we need to actively use the opportunities of the agribusiness 2020, kulan, gold, wolf programs and continue work on irrigation of pasture lands.
He took part in the extraordinary presidential elections held on April 26, 2015, as an observer for population, "kzi reports.
The total sown area for grain in 2014 compared to the level of 2013 expanded by 27.4 thousand hectares (2.1%), including grain - by 2.2%, oilseeds - by 0.4%, vegetables - by 3.1%, fodder crops - by 4.5%.
this week, the holder of the Order of the Red Star, the title of "Honorary Resident of Leningrad," the witness to this terrible barrage, the imankulov turned 96 years old.
The company began its work on November 3, 2010, since then the company has taken a leading position in the production of reinforced concrete structures and products in the capital.
In March 1945 he graduated from the Yaroslavl Tank School, after which he was appointed commander of a tank platoon and sent to the far east.
The electricity consumption in the country in 2013 compared to 2014 amounted to 1991.7 million kvtsag. or by 2.2% and 91632.5 million kvts. is.
According to the calculation of the 1st at the 20.02.2015 of the year, the fee for the legalization of property 206110 "actually came to the budget of 451.7 million tenge.
According to him, based on the data of Deputy Prime Minister B. Sagintayev at the expanded government meeting, the cost of memoranda with national companies and backbone enterprises this year is 960 billion tenge.
Among the countries that make up 193 countries of the world and are landlocked in the overview rating of the unique edition of the world, our state was named among the leaders, "he said.
The draft budget for 2015-2017 provides for 707 billion tenge.
in the mounting and testing case of 112 PP specialists, progress "zgo" is preparing spacecraft No. 2 "resource-p" for launch into space.
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the state revenue authorities received 2 applications in the amount of 108.7 million tenge, both objects were legalized.
According to the head of the KTZ, today the seaport dominates intercontinental cargo transportation between Asia and Europe, and 98% of traffic falls on this port.
During the meeting, the First Deputy Prime Minister instructed to allocate 1 billion tenge from the government budget for emergency rescue and first aid in the Karaganda region, "A. Sovetov said.
The purpose of the event is to strengthen the unity of the people, unite society within the framework of the policy of peace and harmony and implement the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Concept of Development of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan until 2020.
we recognize Kazakhstan as the largest country with a developed economy in Central Asia, "the minister said.
For 12 months of 2014, the corporation purchased goods and works from Kazakhstani enterprises in the amount of 167.8 billion tenge, the share of local content amounted to 69%, which is 67% in 2013.
According to him, since 2002, the total volume of attracted investments in the country exceeds 1.7 trillion tenge, of which 40% are own funds of enterprises, 35% are foreign investments, the remaining 25% are budget funds.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that since 2015 the courts of the republic have been operating within the framework of the new criminal legislation aimed at strengthening guarantees for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens.
In 2015, 34 billion tenge was allocated from the local budget as part of the guaranteed amount of free medical care, and about 50 billion tenge from the national budget.
the train consists of 8 cars, of which four are a mobile polyclinic, "said the senior doctor of the medical train Yermek Sambayev to representatives of the media.
the growth in the share of employment in the manufacturing industry is about 30 thousand people, these are high-performance jobs, the department said.
individuals sold 11.2% more goods in retail at comparable prices for January-December 2013, legal entities - 1.5%.
According to the agency, the gross domestic product of agriculture in 2014 amounted to 2.5 trillion tenge and exceeded last year's figure by 0.8%.
Meat production (slaughter weight) increased by 3.2% compared to 2013 and amounted to 898.9 thousand tons, beef - by 2.6% and 5020.1 thousand tons, and chicken eggs - by 10.1% and amounted to 4272.5 million units.
In the election campaign, only 4 applications related to the elections were submitted to the prosecutor's office, 3 of which do not contain information or complaints about violations of the law.
According to the department, the agreement does not oblige to register migrants and members of their families within 30 days after leaving for the territory of the state of employment.
This opportunity is realized as a result of the partnership of the Nur Otan party with Kazpost, during which 50 Internet access points will be opened in post offices.
The assets of the National Fund increased by 3.9%, amounting to $73.6 billion at the end of the year and for the first time in the history of the country, total foreign exchange reserves exceeded $100 billion, the Kelimbets said.
According to the results of the first quarter of this year, 437 primary health care organizations received 5.2 billion tenge for the payment of the stimulating component of the comprehensive per capita standard. in the end of the 1st quarter 437 companies of primary health care ( phc ) received 5.2 billion tenge for the payment of incentive component of an integrated capitation ( cenn ) .
According to this resolution, the central election commission, on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, registered 48 observers from nine foreign states and one international organization, "the CEC said in a statement.
It is worth noting that on February 6, 2015, during the grand opening of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the participants of the action "kha - 20 good deeds" were transferred to the Governor of Aktobe region "Taikazan" S. Kulagin.
The systematic and planned work of higher and local courts in 2014 reduced the number of citizens' complaints about judicial work by 253% and reduced them by 5%, "said M. Shchegenov.
of these, 12,649 services were provided by the territorial departments of the committee for the issuance of a certificate of specialists without a qualification category, 8,134 services with a qualification category.
Over the past 1.5 years alone, Kazakhstan has visited 20 States to exchange experience on issues of peace and harmony.
To date, only on the white line of Kazagrotrans, a large industrial greenhouse with a total area of ​ ​ 24 hectares has been financed and commissioned, "the report said.
In 2001 and 2006 - Head of the Department of Roads of the Karaganda region, Adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Committee for the Development of Transport and Infrastructure.
According to Kazagro, to date, the credit committee of the company has received applications for the purchase of more than 300 units of equipment worth more than 991 million tenge from farmers of southern Kazakhstan.
As you know, on February 20 of this year, an agreement was signed in Washington between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United States of America on the provision of mutual legal assistance in criminal cases.
According to the forecasts of the Union of Poultry Farmers of Kazakhstan, in 2015 more than 3.6 billion eggs and more than 180.5 thousand tons of poultry meat will be produced.
As Tarasenko noted, in 2013, the contribution of women to gin amounted to 39.3%, which is $92.7 billion.
At the same time, as the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan noted, the task of the department is to provide 70% of schools in Kazakhstan with inclusive education by 2020.
this is Kazakhstan, "N.Nazarbayev said.
Over the past 20 years, 2.5 thousand kilometers of railways have been built in the country, most of which were implemented over the past 5-6 years.
the project is implemented in two stages: i stage - modeling and use of technological processes with state support under the BC-2020 program "Creation of a training and production laboratory" in 2013 and completed in 2014.
Comprehensive plans to promote employment in the regions, which cover more than 322 thousand people, have been developed to implement these areas.
According to the Ministry of Investment and Development, among the largest projects implemented: 5 cement plants (dry production), the total capacity is 4.7 million tons (Kazakhcement LLP, Zhambyl Cement Production Company LLP, ak standard cement, Caspian Cement LLP, acig LLP).
On 25 October 2010, an agreement was signed between Irena and the host party (baa) to relocate the headquarters of the international agency to Abu Dhabi.
Also during the meeting, it can be noted that only 25% are officially registered in the city budget on the income of labor migrants.
design capacity - 11 thousand tons per year, including at least 95% of esters - 1 thousand tons per year, biologics against cancer locusts and pests - 1 thousand tons per year; glyphosate acid at least 95% - 5 thousand tons per year; herbicides, fungicides, insecticides (plant protectors) - 4 thousand tons per year.
It is worth noting that in 2014, 18 thousand men aged 27 to 25 years were called up for military service in the armed forces, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Department of Education, to date, about 6 thousand places have been vacated, work is underway on the distribution of places, this process is also coming to an end.
The representative of the metrological service in skiing at a distance of 3 km among men 40 and 49 years old, Lieutenant Colonel Darkhan Akanov finished first in 10.03 minutes.
I congratulate you on the fact that you will receive an invitation to the exit in 10 days, and we hope that in Kazakhstan we will be able to go along this path, "said K. Maxim.
of which meat and sausage products - 32.2 tons, fish - 1.8 tons; eggs - 31.5 thousand pieces, milk and dairy products - 7 tons; flour - 13 tons; potatoes - 12 tons; vegetables - 9 tons; cereal products - 2 tons; sugar - 1 ton; vegetable oil - 3.8 thousand liters.
in accordance with the approved agreements, no more than 50% of the second tranche should be allocated to finance new projects, a maximum of 25% - to refinance previously issued loans and no more than 25% - to replenish working capital.
in the field of preschool education and education - 3361950.0 thousand tenge (9%), in the field of technical education - 2219440.0 thousand tenge (5.9%), in the field of auxiliary educational services - 1281511.0 thousand tenge (3.4%), services in the field of sports education and training of specialists organizing leisure - 277370.0 thousand tenge (0.7%), in the field of education in the field of culture - 213167.0 thousand tenge (0.6%),
In addition, the opening of a new railway in December 2014 in the direction of Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran will provide wide opportunities for a significant increase in bilateral trade.
in addition, the village of Amberdian Almaty and Beijing will advocate the right to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in the city of Kuala Lumpur.
It is worth noting that over 15 years of activity, the party of patriots of Kazakhstan held 13 congresses, took an active part in all parliamentary and presidential elections.
100 concrete steps - suggests that Kazakhstan has reached a completely different level of development, and most importantly, the program provides a good opportunity to predict the future. 100 concrete steps - is evidence that kazakhstan is on another level of development and a magnificent vision of the future .
today, the results of the xa session, xa 20 good deeds "and the year xa have not yet ended.
this is one of the best indicators in the republic, the level of which for the first time reached 8 trillion tenge and amounted to 20% of the total production of the country's products.
According to the Ministry of Defense, in 2015, the procedure for conducting public procurement was changed and structural units of the km of Kazakhstan were exempted from these works.
this is an important document by decision of the Astrakhan summit, in 2016 the Caspian summit will be held in the capital, "he said.
According to Ruslan Engsebayev, Chairman of the Board of National Information Technologies, the data center was launched as part of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020" and the program for forced industrial and innovative development.
It is worth noting that in 2014 a 17 of kindergartens for 3180 places was opened in Atyrau region, in 2015 it is expected to commission 11 kindergartens for 2340 places.
perhaps this result will change, because tomorrow is the second day of the competition, where the participants will pass the relay 4-2.5 kilometers.
all this work will be continued, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In 2008 he defended his thesis.
According to the report, 24 information groups are currently working to explain the message of the head of state at the akimat of Aktobe.
Last year, the regional coordination council approved 35 projects totaling 5.6 billion tenge, the Mayor's Office reported.
To date, funding has been opened for three projects in the amount of 2 billion tenge, "the monitoring of the implementation of the funds of the national fund allocated through the white line" kdb "says.
Speaking about the election campaign, K. Turgankulov warned citizens wishing to get to the presidential election about the need to pay electoral contributions in the amount of 1 million 60 thousand tenge.
The head of the city noted that for Almaty residents the electoral process has a special historical significance, since in 1991 the inauguration of the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took place in our city.
According to the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan, in 2014 these enterprises produced about 1.9 million tons of ai-92 gasoline and 4.1 million tons of diesel fuel.
The visit of the Kazakh delegation to Germany was organized with the support of the Kazakh-German agrarian-political dialogue, created in 2009 to deepen and expand cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany in the agro-industrial complex.
reduction of the customs rate of the single customs tariff according to the model "0-5-12" within the group of homogeneous goods under the sign tsek 6.
During this time, 70 projects are planned to modernize state and social facilities, as well as improve the regulatory, legislative and institutional framework for energy efficiency.
The second direction of the program is entrepreneurship and 151 loans in the amount of 384.7 million tenge with the creation of 243 jobs, which will create jobs through the development of supporting villages.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that the talks scheduled for February 11 in Minsk in the "Norman format" will allow us to come to a deal in order to find a solution to the Ukrainian crisis.
In accordance with the master plan of the left bank of raw materials, high-rise buildings, decorative two-story cottages, social facilities, parks will be erected on 1532 hectares of the embankment.	on the left bank of syrdarya river in the area of 1532 hectares the high-rise buildings , luxury two-storey cottages , social facilities , parks , waterfront will be located .	2,13
During the meeting, the results of the socio-economic development of the Mangistau region for 2014 and the tasks facing the executive body this year were discussed, "the statement said.
He noted that for 20 years our countries have followed the experiments of the commonwealth of independent states, the Eurasian economic community, the customs union and the single economic space, and the idea of ​ ​ our state has now been realized.
According to the results of the competition, the leader of last year's industrialization, the Aktobe Rail Transport Plant, was recognized as the best industrial project of 2014, "the statement said.
Since February of this year, Kazakhstan poultry farmers will purchase 215 tons of grade 4 wheat at the elevators of the northern regions of the country at 37,500 tenge per ton, "the report said.
According to him, the program of local content for 2010-2014 allowed to master 23 million tenge, receiving goods and services from Kazakhstan producers.
Such a large-scale cultural event was first held in the border Astrakhan region, where 150 thousand Kazakhs lived according to the 2010 census.
the number of agreed inspections for state bodies is agreed: with tax authorities - 75, sanitary and epidemiological supervision bodies - 13, prosecutor's offices - 8, medical and pharmaceutical monitoring bodies - 3, customs control bodies - 1, industry and tourism committee - 1 check.
the index of physical volume of agriculture for 11 months of this year amounted to 99.6% due to a decrease in production in crop production by 3.2%. ips of agriculture for 11 months of the current year amounted to 99.6 % , due to the lower production volumes in the plant by 3.2 % .
Last year, 12 farms through the regional branch of Agrarian Credit Corporation JSC received loans in the amount of 131.0 million tenge and acquired 5627 heads of sheep, including 327 heads of tribal cats.
Recall that in the message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the head of state noted that Kazakhstan should become the leading Eurasian center of medical tourism.
At the regional coordination council for forced industrial and innovative development of Kostanay region, a 399 of projects was approved, subsidized and guaranteed on loans in the amount of 63,300,3 million tenge.
The decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Vietnamese socialist republic was published in November 2013, and the Embassy of Vietnam in the capital has been operating since 2008.
in particular, the proposal of the expert group on the reduction and cancellation of 134 permits of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, msm, mgm, ub and other state bodies was considered and approved.
since the beginning of the flood period, 23.85 km of roads have been flooded in 118 sections, of which 5.08 km or 59 sections have been restored.
The New Year celebration will be held with the participation of 20 children with disabilities and 50 children with disabilities from low-income families.
During this harsh period, about 47 thousand orphans moved to the Kazakh land from other regions, who showed their brotherhood in the blood of the Kazakh nation.
The Almaty office of the DDU became the first major UN office in the European region and central Asia, coordinating 53 member states of this organization.
Within the framework of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Trade Unions," adopted in 2014, serious reforms are taking place in the trade union movement of Kazakhstan.
from. According to Kulagin, the volume of processing industries in the destination structure increased from 9% to 14%, the level of innovative activity - from 1.2% to 7%.
By March 20, Baiterek Holding will hand over the keys to new apartments to the first participants in the Nұrly Zhol program, "said K. Bishimbayev.
bakytzhan sagintayev noted that the total company has been successfully operating in Kazakhstan for more than 20 years and is one of the largest strategic investors.
The remaining 20% will be directed to other successfully implemented industries, "the report said.
Since the beginning of the year, 12 projects have been considered, 10 of which can be included in the industrialization map, "said Governor of the region Erik Sultanov, opening a meeting of the coordinating council.
For military exploits, 528 Kazakhstani soldiers were awarded the title of Heroes of the Soviet Union, four of them were awarded this title twice.
the share of local collateral in procurement was 75%, of which 63% - for goods, 82% - for services, "Samruk-kazyna reported.
In January-December 2014, the number of home purchase and sale transactions decreased by 13.7% compared to the corresponding period last year, the committee said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh diplomat presented an invitation to the Malaysian representative to the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the head of the secretariat of the world and traditional parliament, the Kassym-Jomart Tokayev at the 5th Congress on June 10-11, 2015 in Astana.
I can reach out to you, and this is how 17 million Kazakhstanis will help you, "he said.
Trade between the People's Republic of China and the European Union is already $600 billion, and is projected to reach $800 billion in 2020.
At the same time, as the deputy noted, the volume of oil production in 2015 is projected at 80.5 million tons, oil refining - 14.3 million tons.
According to him, Kazakhstan attracted 80% of investments from European, American, Asian continents in the Central Asian region, the volume of which over the years of independence amounted to 200 billion dollars.
Today, Kazzinc LLP and 6 domestic enterprises signed contracts for the supply of Kazakh products for 700 million tenge, the volume of which will be increased in the future.
Since 2011, on the initiative of the Board of Trustees of the D.Nazarbayeva Foundation, together with the Dendar Jti Humanitarian Fund, the project "Temporary Liaison Thread" has been implemented.
According to the media center, about five hundred athletes from 20 countries took part in the competition: Kazakhstan, New Zealand, Australia, Japan, Mongolia, Singapore and Pakistan.
In general, the Kazagro group of companies plans to allocate 97 billion tenge for spring-field and autumn cleaning in 2015, taking into account all sources of financing (including equipment leasing).
Recall that the automated information system "Payment Gateway of Electronic Government" has been operating in the country since 2010.
If in 2008-2009, when we began our activities, there were 160-180 such cases, then last year we considered only 89 cases, this, of course, is joyful news, "said N. Razzak.
It was founded in 2000, the founder is the German federal government, which includes the ministries of economics and energy, transport, construction and housing of Germany, and environmental protection.
according to our forecasts, by 2030 the volume of gas consumption in the country will reach the current 12 billion cubic meters to 18 billion cubic meters.
The plant was established in 2011 with the support of the Ministry of Investment and Development and introduced new management technologies that allow the national technological development agency to get innovative devices and increase the number of jobs.
The small assembly of the region includes 44 ethnocultural centers, 4 friendship houses, and their experience is underestimated and studied around the world, including the UN.
If we talk about the new transport market, then only in transit is the task to bring infrastructure freight transportation of the new Kazakhstan from 17.5 million to 36 million by 2020, "he said.
at the same time, the leadership and personnel of the 68665 military unit worked out coordinated work and interaction, strictly fulfilling the task.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, commanders of military units 25744, battalions (divisions) 30238 a/b, 66597 a/b and individual motorized rifle brigades will take part in the military event.
Recall that at present, the construction of the Borjakhty-Ersay railway, begun by the head of state on October 1, 2014, is underway in full.
This year, along with residential buildings, a school with 1200 seats and a kindergarten with 1290 seats will be erected.
Also, 52 people were sent to new jobs, including state and industry programs, a regional development program and jobs for the development of private business.
So, in 2014, more than 500 tons of fish products worth $3.1 million were exported to Georgia, Denmark, Poland, Austria, Germany.
annual warrior competitions have been held since 2009 at the initiative of the Jordanian armed forces at the modernized training center training ground.
According to preliminary estimates, the growth of wool during the reporting period amounted to 2.2%, the volume of production of goods was at the level of 100.8%, services - 103%, - said the Minister.
ferry complex with a capacity of 4 million tons per year is intended for transshipment of goods of the national heritage, grain, petroleum products, liquefied hydrocarbon gas, fertilizers, chemicals, etc.
this, of course, at an oil price of $50 per barrel, and if infrastructure projects are implemented, growth may be greater, "said M. Mukanov.
In October 2014, the Baiterek Group of Companies - Investment Fund of Kazakhstan approved a new plan providing for the possibility of improving and restarting enterprises with the support of whites, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan Leasing and white baiterek venture fund.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that the quadripartite talks scheduled for February 11 in Minsk will allow us to come to a deal in search of ways to resolve the Ukrainian conflict, the report said.
The third place in terms of citizen activity was taken by the Aktobe region (1274 applications) and the Kostanay region (1186).
At the same time, the head of the department added that in 2015 the initial income is projected to be 41,307,6 billion tenge, which is 2,413,7 billion tenge lower than the updated indicator in November and by 2019 year will increase by 59,869,9 billion tenge.
40 projects of small and medium-sized businesses will be placed on its territory and more than 2 thousand jobs will be created, "said Mr. dusembayev.
According to him, to date, 120 billion tenge has been fully developed, significant funds have been allocated to create new industries in the field of agriculture, modernize existing ones, and increase productivity.
"firn" and "5 peaks," consisting of young men and boys, consisting of adults, from the Akmola region, fulfilled the requirements of the 2nd (category), the adult team - 1st.
In order to attract investments in the agro-industrial complex of the region in 2014, the costs of these entities of the agro-industrial complex were restored through investment investments.
To implement the first direction of the program, it is planned to implement 31 infrastructure projects, repair 23 educational and cultural facilities, implement 7 health projects and 1 housing utility.
Air traffic between Europe and Asia today reaches 4 million tons, and passenger traffic - 53 million, the leader of the nation added.
our equipment is designed for the agro-industrial complex, the field of public utilities and road repair, which will be able to carry out 50 types of work, "said the director of Tractor MTS LLP.
As it turned out, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1989, became the main instrument that enshrined the rights and obligations of the child.
Opening the solemn meeting, the mami noted the importance of the May 1 celebration for Kazakhstanis, noting the special role of the head of state in preserving and strengthening the unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
On October 25, 2010, an agreement was signed between Irena and the host (baa) to locate the headquarters of the international agency in Abu Dhabi, "the statement said.
in the construction and technical college of the technical and vocational education system, an experimental platform was opened to teach 15 disabled children plaster-painting specialties.
It is noted that as a result of the negotiations held during the tour, it became known that the Italians would again meet with the Astana Opera troupe on their stage in December 2015, in the New Year's performance of the Yuri grigorovich "Nut Swan."
54 different banknotes of the national currency, 111 different commemorative silver coins, the "red book of Kazakhstan," space, "Traditions and national games of Kazakhstan," "sports," "tales of the people of Kazakhstan, the eastern calendar," "samruk" - 51 sets of silver kopecks, as well as other printing products.
At the same time, it should be noted that more than 5 thousand jobs are involved in the construction, and more than 2 thousand people are involved in the commissioning of the complex. in this case , the construction phase will involve more than 5 thousand people , and the operation will employ more than 2 thousand people .
the Chongqing (China) Duisburg (Germany) railway route reduces freight traffic by 15 days compared to sea (45 days).
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, for residents of the city 15 metropolitan doctors received residents of the city on various issues.
According to the Governor, it is planned to commission 684 thousand square meters of housing in the region, including 56 rental apartments and 4 credit houses.
Recall, according to the CEC of Kazakhstan, 90% of all voters included in the list received ballots.
The heads of state considered the launch of the Eurasian Economic Union since 2015 and its interaction with foreign partners, "the statement said.
In accordance with the agreement between the Governor's Office of the region and the socio-entrepreneurial corporation Baikonur and the European Development Reconstruction Bank, 100 buses will be imported into the region this year.
The republican Olympiads in humanitarian and technical disciplines, held in the Urals, were attended by 78 metropolitan schoolchildren.
As the results of marketing research showed, the need for artificial reflection is 1,895,0 thousand cubic meters. m per year only in the West Kazakhstan and Atyrau regions.
in the country there is a second wave of privatization, in the framework of which 5 fisheries plants will be brought to the market for work in one industry. there is the second wave of privatization in the country , and in the framework of privatization we will implement 5 fish hatcheries in the competitive environment .
170 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund for these purposes, including 100 billion tenge for lending to projects in the field of processing, 70 billion tenge for supporting specific industries (cars, helicopters, passenger cars, etc.), "said B. Zhamishev.
In 2015, a slowdown is expected in the European Union and the Russian economy, "said Lymuzaparov.
Having raised 13 children, the owner of the Golden College state award, labor veteran Kayynzhamal Amirkhanova noted the place of women in strengthening family values ​ ​ and traditions.
According to the report of the World Economic Forum, in 2014 Kazakhstan took a leading position among 57 countries of the world, the lowest in terms of the prevalence of aiv - 0.2%, "said the Secretary of State.
Following the results of the Open Cup of Kazakhstan and two competitions, which will be held in February and March next year, in June 2015 the main team will be formed, which will take part in the Asian Championship, "says state coach Oksana Dmitrienko.
Also, as the First Vice Minister noted, for the full implementation of these projects until 2020, it is envisaged to attract funds from international financial organizations.
The agreement was concluded on May 28, 2014 to establish the legal basis for the cooperation of the competent authorities for the provision of mutual assistance in emergency situations.
According to the author of the project T. Suleimenov, the main spatial structure compositionally consists of several areas surrounding it with 12 stellae.
At the same time, according to A. Sarinzhipov, in 2015, state educational standards will be fully developed in the school education system.
being a patriot of your country and a supporter of your political course, we thank you for implementing the idea of ​ ​ holding the world winter universiade in 2017. we , as the patriots of our country and supporters of your political course , thank you for the realization of the idea of holding the world winter universiade in 2017 .
the future depends on "open data."
the project provides for reaching a capacity of 18 cubic meters per day, the elimination and processing of waste to expand the construction of biofuels.
To increase the volume of investments in fixed assets, the leaders are the capital (additional 98.4 billion tenge, up to 644 billion tenge), mangistau (additional 89.8 billion tenge, up to 529.4 billion tenge) and regional (additional 81.8 billion tenge, up to 1.1 trillion tenge) regions.
1st place in the team competition was taken by the cities of Astana and Almaty, Atyrau, Kostanay, East Kazakhstan region, 2nd place - Zhambyl, West Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, Karaganda regions, 3rd place - South Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions.
In 2015, the volume of subsidies for this area increased 7 times compared to 2006 and today amounts to 14.9 billion tenge, "the report said.
tourism in the region will develop in 5 directions: the development of the Bayanaul zone, the opening of a natural monument "flying geese" under the sky, the development of passenger traffic across the river, ethnotourism, health tourism.
In general, last year state labor inspectors carried out 7,232 inspections, revealed more than 21 thousand facts of violations of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and fined 287.4 million tenge.
in addition, the men's team won the rapid at the Central Asian Cup, and the saduakasova dinara became the world champion in the under-18 category.
the number of women in decision-making positions in local executive bodies has doubled over the past 10 years to 20.7 per cent. the representation of women in leadership positions in local executive bodies in the past 10 years has increased by 2 times and amounts to 20.7 % .
And the school library with a wide reading room today can offer students more than 15 thousand books.
10 steps will increase public control and participation of civil society, ensure transparency and accountability of state bodies, and improve the mechanisms for the work of the "open government."
we subsidize foreign exchange loans, loans of enterprises with an income of 10% in currency, the interest rate will be approved by the fund, "explained Ibragimova.
Thus, in 2017, oil production will reach 86 million tons, by 2020 this figure can be brought to 104 million tons, "said the Vice Minister.
This year it is planned to cover about 234 km of roads of national and local importance. this year it is planned to cover all types of road repair works about 234 km of roads of national and local importance .
in cities - 96.8%, in rural settlements - 65%.
Within the framework of this direction, the holding plans to purchase and build 487 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 9740 thousand square meters for renting out citizens with the right of subsequent redemption.
Starting this year, families who adopted children from orphanages will begin to pay 75 monthly calculated indicators, "said the deputy chairman.
Launched in 2010, the company last year produced 1.2 million tons of cement and reached its full design capacity.
Recall that in total 14 citizens applied to the Central Election Commission to participate in the early presidential elections.
people's choir of military personnel of the eastern region, war and labor veterans, the choir of the military department "Kazakhstani land, epaulettes" "victory, aliyah," "ballad about a soldier" "mother of a soldier," "letter from 45 years old," "March of the military department kazguyu," "March of students-educators of the military department kazguyu."
Already in December last year, the single tenge supplied by the regulator exceeded "500 billion tenge, and now the national bank has reduced its participation to 200-300 million dollars.
Speaking about the tasks for 2015, the head of the department noted the role of the ministry in improving the business climate in Kazakhstan.
Since 2008, students from low-income families studying in the day department have been provided with a preferential allowance for travel by public transport.	since 2008 the students from needy families receive social support in form of travel ticket .	2,19
To date, the total amount of purchases is about 9 trillion tenge, including the level of local content of 5.9 trillion tenge, "said the executive secretary.
The head of the Central Election Commission familiarized international experts with the work of the central election commission on the preparation and conduct of the extraordinary presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015.
So, over the past 6 years, Kazakh courts have protected the rights of legal entities (including foreign investors) totaling more than 240 billion tenge.
fully automated production lines produce arched bricks of 8 different shapes from multicomponent mixtures with complete preservation of geometric shape.
we plan to increase the number of observers to 10 thousand, headquarters and regional commissions are selected in each region, which are ready to organize. our task is to increase the number of observers in social work by 10 thousand ; each region has already set up a headquarters , their regional commissions , which organize everything .
we are working to ensure that our country enters the 30 developed countries of the world, we are together, everyone should be proud of our homeland, "he concluded.
The state visit of President Iir Kh.rukhani to Kazakhstan in September 2014 and the importance of implementing the agreements reached at that time was noted.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the creative team will give a concert on February 5 in the Almaty garrison and give war veterans the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
in world practice, science is financed as follows: 40% of the allocated funds will be allocated to basic and applied research, 60% - to development work. in the world practice the funding of science is divided in such a way : about 40 % of fundamental and applied researches and 60 % of development activities .
Also in secondary school No. 71, the "Office of Psychological and Pedagogical Correction No. 2" was opened for children with visual impairment.
Thus, as of April 7, 2015, the Central Election Commission accredited 402 observers from three missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb, cis and shu), two international organizations (the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states and the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking states) and 31 foreign states.
530 more than 50% of thousands of students studying in the technical professional system have state grants and study in a technical specialty, "he added.
a significant share in the total gross output of the region's products (services) is occupied by taiga (16%) and musrepov districts. (13,9%).
this year, scheduled inspections will be carried out only for non-private enterprise entities and only in the first half of 2015.	besides , according to zhaksylykov planned inspections will be possible in regard to entrepreneurs who are not free businessmen and only in the first half of 2015 .	2,19
after the launch of the first two pmxz units, from January 1, 2016, it will produce motor fuel of category k4.	after the commissioning of the first two complexes , pavlodar petrochemical plant will be able to produce motor fuels of class k4 since january 1 , 2016 .	2,19
Governor of the capital instructed to take strict control of the implementation of memoranda on social protection of labor collectives and development of local content, signed on February 5 of this year with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev.	however , astana 's mayor instructed to closely monitor the implementation of the memoranda on social protection of labor collectives and local content development signed on february 5 this year with the participation of deputy prime minister of kazakhstan berdibek saparbayev .	2,19
thanks to the opening of a new fire station, 140 jobs have been created that implement the strategic task of employment of the population within the framework of the state program "Road Map."
Also, employees of the Department for the Supervision of the Application of Legislation on the Consideration of Appeals of the Prosecutor General's Office accepted 1287 people during daily work.
It is worth noting that by the end of 2015, the company periodically rises to the international level and plans to additionally create 50-70 jobs.
This year, about 1 billion 800 million tenge was allocated from the state treasury for the construction of 12 cultural facilities in the region, of which four have been commissioned to date for the benefit of the country.
At the same time, as the head of the NPP noted, half of the 100 concrete steps are aimed at industrialization and growth of the country's economy, which is important for the development of certain types of entrepreneurship and business.
70 aircraft will be involved in the military parade, these are front-line aircraft, general-purpose fighters, attack aircraft, military transport aircraft, military aviation helicopters. 70 aircrafts will be involved in the parade : the front-line aircraft , fighter , general purpose , attack aircraft , military transport aircraft and helicopters of army aviation .
To date, the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan has developed a draft concept for ensuring food security of the country until 2020.
Currently, the ministry has held preliminary negotiations, by the end of the year it is planned to sign 12 loan agreements.
The event was attended by about 50 entrepreneurs and representatives of public associations for the protection of consumer rights.
In addition, he noted that from 2014, work will continue on the construction of socially significant facilities in the Karaganda, Balkash, Zhezkazgan, Abai, Bucharest, Zhanaarkin districts.
of which the akdib/ekyu mission is 291 observers from 36 states, the CIS observer mission is 410 observers, the Shu observer mission is 10 observers, 29 observers from three international organizations, 116 observers from 37 foreign states, "B. Meldeshov said at a briefing at the CEC.
in order to create reproductive farms, Afion-Kordai LLP in the Kordai region purchased 222 head of meat cattle from Canada.
In addition, in the 2014 academic year, for official duties, exemplary military order and high results, a number of military personnel were encouraged by order of the commander of the regional command "west."
On behalf of the Head of State, in order to further ensure the country's economic growth, $3 billion are allocated annually from the national fund from 2015 to 2017. on behalf of the president the national fund allocates 3 billion dollars for further economic growth of the country annually in 2015-2017 .
At the end of the year, more than 105 thousand electronic applications were filed through this service, of which more than 85 thousand claims.
In 2011, Kazakhstan took the initiative to establish an Islamic food security organization within the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
So, on Victory Day, from the republican budget, each veteran and disabled person of the war will be allocated 100 thousand tenge of material assistance and 70 thousand tenge to persons equated with them.
And in a matter of months, it marks the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, which put an end to the whole world.
If last year we received 8 requests from the American side for legal assistance in criminal cases, then 4 such requests were sent to them from our side, "he said.
Given the holding of the international exhibition expo-2017, other energy sources are used in the construction of these facilities, green technology is used.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, military personnel of military units 5511, 6699 and the Vostok National Guard, as well as veterans and government officials took part in the ceremony.
At the same time, as the Minister noted, investments in fixed assets have been growing in Kazakhstan for the export of flour over the past 6 years.
55.6% of the total number of arrivals in the country are people of working age, 39.9% are children under 18 years old, 4.5% are pensioners.
In Almaty, 24 veterans of the Great Patriotic War were solemnly awarded jubilee medals in the Central House of the Army.
Also, the work of the Almat-Talykorgan highway with a length of 265 km continues in the region, to date, 162 lines of the gas pipeline have been built.
Thus, the construction of a secondary school for 500 places with the Kazakh language of instruction, a kindergarten for 280 places and a clinic of an oncological dispensary has begun in Kostanay, the completion of these projects is scheduled for the current year.
Next year, we plan to build another 110 new schools, the number of emergency schools will be reduced by 30%, three-shift schools will be reduced by 2 times, "the minister said.
It is worth noting that since 2003, the "national agency for technical development" has been implementing direct project financing through shared uncontrolled participation.
it was here that the public activity of the president of the RKB "Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan" began, where he has been working for 20 years.
According to the Secretary-General of the organization, during 2014 all the necessary normative documents were developed for the creation of a collective force.
As part of the Regional Development Program, the volume of rental housing construction was increased until 2020 in order to provide the population with affordable housing and housing infrastructure. as part of regional development programs until 2020 , in order to strengthen the infrastructure and population 's housing needs , the volume of construction of rental housing will be increased .
Opening the meeting, the chairman of the committee I.Adyrbekov noted that the law "On the state border of the Republic of Kazakhstan" adopted in 2013 is the legal basis for ensuring the security of the state border of the country.
It is worth noting that on May 29, 2014, a visit of foreign experts to the center began in this direction.
The head of state noted that at the oath-taking ceremony there will be a national development plan for Kazakhstan, which will be implemented on 5 institutional reforms.
The Chairman of the Eero Heinäluom Parliament noted the importance of cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of education, drawing attention to the informative interviews conducted during the visit to the capital in 2014.
The Interstate Anti-Corruption Council is the CIS sectoral cooperation body created by the heads of 6 states (Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan).
In three years, it is planned to build 27 kindergartens, the vast majority of which are areas with a low level of kindergarten coverage.
Thus, in Kazakhstan in 2008 there were 128 sectors of the processing industry, after 5 years another 28 sectors appeared, in 2013 they amounted to 154 sectors.
98.5% of the total volume of construction and installation works in the structure of contract works, 1% - for overhaul, 0.5% - for ongoing repairs.
In 2014, the construction of a unique youth ecological town began, where various sports fields and offices for youth organizations will be located.
labor productivity in the industry increased by 16.5% compared to 2013 and amounted to 59.5 thousand US dollars per person.
As part of the program "Business Road Map 2020," 190 applications were submitted in the amount of 14.5 billion tenge, 136 agreements were signed to subsidize loans of entrepreneurs in the amount of 43.5 billion tenge.
To support economic growth, a roadmap of advanced socio-economic measures for 2014 has been developed and implemented, "said the Minister of National Economy. Dossaev.
397 residents of the village of tassuat, belonging to the Bukhar-Zhyrau district, the village of Mustafin and the Nurinsky district, have not yet returned from the evacuated zone. 397 residents of g.mustafin village of buhar-zhyrau district and tassuat village of nura district are sataying evacuated .
This year, 1.5 million people were covered by the work of awareness-raising groups, of which 700 thousand young specialists under the age of 14-29 years make up 20% of the entire youth of the country.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan, 9 investment projects worth 144.1 billion tenge will be continued with the creation of 5.2 thousand jobs.
In general, the implementation of these projects will increase freight turnover by road by 1.5 times until 2020 (2013 - 1.56 million tons, 2009 - 0.72 million tons).
in this regard, military personnel competed in the sports relay in the 25-meter race (running with the ball, running in bags, running on the armband).
83 investment projects totaling 691.1 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map of the region and 10.7 thousand jobs were created during the construction, after commissioning - 11.8 thousand jobs.
The following positive import substitution conditions have been established; imports of beef decreased by 42.3%, workers - by 3 times, potatoes - by 2 times, cucumbers - by 4.8 times, "said A. Mamytbekov.
The head of state noted that the 100 concrete steps that he raised were created on the basis of the studied world experience.
Currently, 56 poultry farms are engaged in production poultry farming in the republic, of which 37 are oviparous and 19 broiler.
as noted in the information center, in the field of health - 85%; about 75 per cent in education and 68 per cent in finance.
Also at the end of last year, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported that in accordance with the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people, a state program for the development of infrastructure for the period until 2020 was developed, which will become the main instrument for the development of the economy in the medium term.
orphans and children under 4 years of age, left without parental care, experiencing problems in mental and physical development, are brought up here.
It is worth noting that in 2015 the possibility of including junior kokpara in the list of intangible cultural heritage of Kazakh equestrian sports will be considered.
when using discount cards taking into account a 35% discount on receiving a preliminary ticket, the passenger can receive a discount of up to 52% in general.
More than 2 thousand companies work in the tourism sector: tour operators, tourist campaigns that are ready to work to receive tourists and send citizens of the country to rest abroad, "said Kurbanbaev.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" noted that "physical culture and sports should be in special attention of the state.
As you know, the activities of the judicial system in the country are regulated by section 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the judicial system and the status of court presidents."
Speaking about trade, economic and investment cooperation, the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan noted that the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and the eu has increased 13 times over the past 10 years, and the volume of European investments in the Kazakh economy - 10 times.
According to the Governor's Office, the kso market, one of the largest shopping centers in Petropavlovsk, has been operating since 1998.
in the direction of "housing for young families," a memorandum of cooperation was concluded on the construction of 7 residential buildings for 542 apartments, the volume of which is 32.4 thousand square meters.
Currently, the crews of combat aircraft and helicopters are practicing flights in a pair and group composition to an altitude of 200 to 500 meters. now the crews of combat military aircraft and helicopters and spend flying at low altitudes from 200 to 500 meters in pairs and composed units .
1 million people from among Kazakhstanis were unemployed, but the measures taken by the government on behalf of the head of state ruled out this situation. it was predicted that unemployment will cover about 1 million people , but the adopted measure helped to escape it .
In addition, since July 2014, Kazakhstan has introduced a temporary procedure for exempting Malaysian citizens from visa requirements for up to 15 days on the basis of mutual agreements.
the general terms of this program in the current year have been increased by 7 years, advance payment by 10% and maturity until November 15 of this year.
In 2014, there was an improvement in the criminal situation in the country - crime decreased by 5.2%, from 359 thousand to 341 thousand.
According to the chief oncologist of the capital, Mukhtar Tuleutaev, in 2014 the incidence rate of cancer in the capital was 100 per 165 thousand people and amounted to 8.
In addition, memorandums of cooperation on the development of local content were signed by Kazakhtelecom JSC, Kazphosphat LLP, Taraz Metallurgical Plant JSC and others, 11 memoranda totaling more than 11 billion tenge were concluded.
In addition, within the framework of the working trip, the Secretary of State expressed the wish to open a 270-seat Shymkent children's hospital in a solemn atmosphere and achieve success in improving children to medical workers of the new institution.
From April 1, 2015, the transition period will begin, taking into account the subjects of natural monopolies in accordance with the requirements of investment programs and programs, "said M. Susainov.
Among them are 242 libraries, 208 clubs and houses of culture, 20 museums and memorial complexes and other cultural institutions.
"paper recycling," "knauf gypsum kapshagai," "rg brands" "aksengir" branch, "methacon," "infraenergo," "reinforced concrete," "suffle Kazakhstan" and "primary brewery."
Alexander Vasilievich worked for more than 20 years as a teacher at the training center of the civil defense headquarters of the North Kazakhstan region.
Also, 7 memoranda were signed between the Governor's Office of the region, employers and trade unions to preserve jobs and stabilize production processes.
In total, the program has 13 sports: figure skating, short track, morning skiing, snowboarding, biathlon, cross-country skiing, ice hockey, curling, ski jumping, freestyle.
The republican action "20 good deeds," organized as part of the mega-project "Road Map of Peace and Harmony," is held in all settlements of the region.
According to him, for 10 months of the current year the volume of investments in fixed assets of agriculture increased by 15.2% compared to the corresponding period of 2013 and amounted to 128.7 billion tenge.
Kazakhstanis pay 1 tenge for 7 minutes of mobile communication on their land, and when moving to the Russian zone they should pay 20 times more, that is, 150 tenge.
In the reporting year, under the Sybaga program, 56 peasant farms were granted loans in the amount of 722.2 million tenge, for which 3968 livestock were purchased by agricultural producers.
In turn, the Minister of Culture, Art and Heritage of Qatar H. al-Kauari confirmed that in April-May 2015 he will visit Kazakhstan and discuss with his colleague all issues of cooperation in the field of culture.
During the nationwide teleconference "New industrialization of Kazakhstan: the result of 2014 and the first five-year plan," the head of state noted the need to award the state prize to the best innovators.
He also noted that in 2015 the construction of the regional multidisciplinary children's hospital with 200 seats in Karaganda will continue.
In May 2014, the Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank Group signed an inter-level partnership agreement.
The personnel of the special unit of the military unit 41433 of the Western Regional Command showed high results at exercises at the Karabatan training ground, the Ministry of Defense said.
By the end of the spring and autumn draft of 2014, the armed forces, other troops and 478 people in each number were equipped with equipment for the military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that a total of 20 video cameras are installed, of which 15 are in the tentacle, 5 in the Burabai district.	in general 20 remote cameras installed in schuchinsk city and five cameras - in burabay village .	2,23
In 2014, rental housing with a total area of ​ ​ 9.2 thousand square meters is planned for waiting lists.	according to department of internal policy of aktobe region , 476.1 thousand sq. meters oh housing built in 2014 .	2,23
in the iron and steel industry - 3.1 thousand people, oil and gas chemistry - 2.6 thousand people, food production - 2.4 thousand people and electrical equipment - 2 thousand people, "the report said.
Also, in anticipation of the entry into force on January 1, 2015, a meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council at the level of heads of state will be held with the participation of the presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.
At the same time, an average repair of 16 streets with a length of 9.3 km and an ongoing repair of 40 streets will be carried out.
In general, today the national holding Kazagro has approved financing of 34 projects for the creation of dairy farms worth more than 39 billion tenge.
among men at a distance of 5 km, cross-country skiing was held in five different categories by age.
It is also reported that Kazakhstan poultry farmers were able to fully implement their plans in 2014, despite some difficulties.
From September 1 of this year, we will begin the admission of students to the master's degree under the new educational program as part of the project, "T. Balykbayev said.
According to the press service of the library, on January 13, 2014, the head of state signed a decree "On some issues of the state institution" Library of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation. "
On May 7, a parade of the largest troops in the history of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held at the Kazakh Country monument.
the authors of the draft presented a plan of its concept of work for a phased period, where 3 social aspects were taken into account as the main focus: the economy, population and world-class infrastructure.
Last year, 193.9 million tenge was considered from the regional budget, the construction of an administrative-sleeping building with 40 seats was additionally carried out, "the regional akimat reported.
as part of the first stage of processing of the 14 km Kalamkas-Karazhanbas main oil pipeline. a segment of the turb was replaced.
in addition, the proportion of men among heads of legal entities registered in the IV quarter of 2014 was 67.5%, women - 32.5%.
According to the World Health Organization, the global incidence of eye diseases is 285 million, 39 million of whom are blind.
With the outbreak of World War II, the Bakbergen went to the front in February 1942 in the area of ​ ​ his native village of Shubartau, Semipalatinsk region.
The airfield of the video enterprise, located near Aktau, was commissioned in 1983 due to poor infrastructure after the fall of the USSR.	it was commissioned in 1983 and it wasn 't exploited due to poor infrastructure .	2,24
Also, the Chairman of the Accounts Committee reported on the main results of the audit commissions of the regions, cities of the capital and Almaty for 2014.	moreover , mr. dzhanburchin informed on main results of the activities of internal audit commissions in the regions of the country and astana and almaty cities in 2014 .	2,24
Recall that in 2015, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan put forward the initiative to hold early presidential elections.	it should be recalled that the council of the assembly of people of kazakhstan took the initiative to hold early presidential elections in 2015 .	2,24
It should be noted that state support will be provided in 5 areas of hunting development, "said D. Akhmetov.
Also, the presidents signed an agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union of May 29, 2014.
According to the Department of Statistics, most of the investments are in industry, transport and warehousing, their share in the total investment amounted to 37% and 30.6%, respectively.
The Ministry is currently conducting preliminary negotiations and plans to conclude 12 borrowing agreements by the end of the year.
As historians noted during the meeting, 550 years ago, by the will of the Kazakh people, a solid and brave Kazakh khanate was created.
In general, in the first half of 2015 in relation to entrepreneurs it is possible to conduct unscheduled inspections on complaints and appeals of legal entities and individuals.
In general, according to experts, the total cargo turnover for all projects implemented by Kazakhstan will reach 283 billion tons of kilometers per year.
electricity consumption will increase annually, and by 2030 consumption will amount to 130 billion qus per year. the consumption of electricity will progress and by 2030 will be about 130 billion kilowatt hours of electricity per year .
Abai readings are traditionally held by the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the Department of Education of Akmola region since 2000.
monitoring includes 53 republican publications, 16 republican television channels, 179 regional publications, 29 regional television channels, as well as 7 news agencies and 117 most popular socio-political Internet resources.
As of September 30, 2014, the volume of Thai investments in Kazakhstan amounted to 3.9 million US dollars, and Kazakhstan invested 11 million US dollars in the Thai economy.
In January of this year, 8 open court hearings were held in higher and secondary education institutions, at which minor riots were considered, the report said.
The Deputy Prime Minister noted that in Kazakhstan there are 15 theaters in Russian, 4 theaters in Korean, German, Uzbek and Uighur, according to the official website of the Prime Minister.
Modern installations worth 400 million tenge were purchased in the capital's branch: high-resolution optical coherent tomograph for offshore surgery and refractive surgery.
At the regional cardiac surgery center in Pavlodar, the country's first cardiological center was created by association with city hospital No. 2.
The contracts concluded in 2014 provide for the completion of the reconstruction of 2.4 km of heating networks in the amount of 299.3 million tenge.
cooperation between our countries has great potential. there is great potential for cooperation between our countries .
On December 25, the head of state is planned to participate in the national teleconference "New Industrialization of Kazakhstan: the results of 2014 and the first five-year plan" and the ceremony of awarding the winners of the Golden Quality Award.
In total, the youth of the workers of the green country planted about 10 thousand trees and removed about 120 tons of garbage.
At the end of 2014, the technology was supported by the Center for Commercialization of Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and a grant worth 72.5 million tenge was introduced.
According to him, this agreement will promote free trade on 90% of all commodity lists located in the eurozone regulatory zone.
Another 4 memoranda were concluded between the Governor's Office of the region and the national companies "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy," "Kegok" and domestic manufacturers of products "aspmk-519," satellite metal, "magnetik," "Almaty paints" for joint work on the development of local content.
In September 2015, within the framework of the UN General Assembly in New York, Kazakhstan chairs a conference on facilitating the entry into force of the 9th nursery together with Japan in accordance with its tasks, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
On December 22, 2014, an agreement was signed between thyssenkrupp industrial solutions ag, which produces advanced mining equipment and technologies in the place of Bogatyr Coal LLP (samruk-energo and rusal).
thus, 1026 observers of foreign states, international organizations and representatives of foreign gardens monitor the extraordinary presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that as part of the privatization program for 2014-2016, 106 subsidiaries and affiliates of Samruk-kazyna JSC will be withdrawn to the private sector.
At the same time, the deputy noted that 130 billion tenge will be allocated on mortgage loans in order to reduce the burden on the borrower of the mortgage loan issued in the period from 2004 to 2009.
In 2015, it is planned to conduct monitoring surveys on an area of ​ ​ 39.2 million hectares with a high risk of hydrogen sulfide spread.
In addition, by 2020 it is planned to open 245 new kindergartens, which will be aimed at 100% coverage of preschool education.
among them are "ktzh," "ak," "Astana expo - 2017" Kazakhtelecom "ak," Kazakhtelecom "Samurykenergo" white, "transtelecom" white, "there are such large enterprises as" kaztransoil "white," kegok "white," kazatomprom "white.
Also, 10 types of salted and boiled chicken meat products will be made at the poultry farm, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
In this regard, the CC plans to implement a large-scale project worth $36 billion by 2020. in this regard , ktz implement an ambitious program by 2020 with total investment of over 36 billion dollars , including a large-scale investment projects aimed at removing infrastructural constraints , and build competence allows us to represent a competitive service and to increase the volume of traffic , " he said .
According to Dosayev, 5 billion tenge is provided for capitalization of the equity deposit guarantee fund as targeted transfers.
Over the past years, a single database on animal husbandry has been created in the region; since July 2014, an electronic system of economic books has been introduced.
In the Akmola region, the flood-related risk zone included 12 settlements of the city of Akmola and the Ereymentau, Arch, Astrakhan, Tselinograd districts. since the beginning atbasar and 12 settlements were in the zone of flood .
we agreed that in the near future we will be able to launch a joint project that will expand the port, we will provide a loan of more than $200 million.
According to these memoranda, about 1 million residents of the country were employed, which is 11% of the economically active population of the republic.
IOC members within a few days will consider the readiness of the city to visit sports facilities and host the 2022 Olympics.
these are servicemen of the Red Army uniforms, nursing instructors, 27 pieces of equipment and weapons (tank t-34, zil-157, howitzer gun zis-2 and m-30, the famous bm-13, machine gun rs-30 "katyusha" and "maxim").
230 million tenge was spent to improve the professional skills of doctors, thanks to which 1842 doctors, 2451 average medical workers, 100 specialists improved knowledge in leading foreign clinics.
Since the beginning of the implementation of the Sypaga program, the corporation has financed 27.8 projects worth more than 1972 billion tenge and achieved the acquisition of more than 147 thousand heads of cattle.
of which about 60% of rented houses - in the capital, Almaty, Shymkent, Aktobe and 40% - in regional centers, single-industry towns.
Within a total of four days, the most reliable of 19 countries and 43 command fighters will be identified for all actions between special forces groups.
On the eve of Museum Day, a large-scale conference will be held within the walls of our museum, and a flash mob for young people is planned for day 15.	i think it will be interesting especially for young people , because we will conduct thematic tours , quizzes , theatrical performances and 15 may , we plan to organize a flash mob ,  - he explained .
By May 9, we decided to congratulate all the winners in the regions, work will be chosen that will come out of each region to the republican level.
last year alone, enterprises opened as part of the industrialization map produced products worth 79 billion tenge, which is 32% of the total processing industry.
During the conversation, the Finnish side officially transmitted data on the fate of 268 Kazakhstani prisoners of war who died during the Great Patriotic War and were buried in Finland.
On October 6, 2014, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan completed the corresponding procedure for paying Kazakhstan's membership fees to the International Committee of the Red Cross for the humanitarian needs of Ukraine in the amount of 30 thousand dollars, the report said.
In turn, the director of Line of Life 24 noted that during the work of this project no complaints were received from veterans.
According to reports, 468 people received loans in the amount of 1.136 billion tenge in order to open and expand their professions.
According to the Committee on Statistics of Kazakhstan, in February 2015, the number of registered transactions for the purchase and sale of housing amounted to 12,282 and increased by 7.9% compared to the previous month.
In 2014, the state allocated $2.5 billion for infrastructure for these purposes, and from 2015 to 2017, $3 million will be allocated annually from the national fund, "he said.
According to him, the relevant amendments were made to the Tax Code, which comes into force in January 2016.
As noted in the report, as part of the implementation of the program "Development of Regions" in 7 settlements of the district, a children's sports and playground was opened, work was carried out in 9 settlements to illuminate the central streets.
According to him, experts predict that trade in the region will increase 1.5 times and in 2014 will reach 800 billion dollars, and in 2020 - more than a trillion dollars.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
significant growth was noted in the following sectors: the construction industry increased by 29.7%, the metallurgical industry - by 18.5%, engineering - by 9%, oil products - by 6.6%.
According to the agency, in the village of Korgalzhyn there is continuous monitoring, 6 residential cars and 8 pieces of equipment of the rescue unit are involved.
The participants of the relay race for 70 days solemnly carry a victorious fire on the streets of settlements of the Karaganda region.
It is planned that the company will produce railway rails in the amount of 200 thousand tons per year, 230 thousand tons of other grade products (channels, beams, border corner glands, special profiles).
By the end of this year, it is planned to complete the construction of two houses for 120 and 670 apartments for program participants through Zhilstroysberbank.
Under this program, a shunt audit with a total design capacity of 324.3 MW, 8 mini-audio, 1 solar power plant was commissioned in 2008 in the region.
this year we are completing the Healthy Kazakhstan program.
In all cities related to the company, on March 22, yurts will be sewn, festive tables will be deployed and a wonderful holiday will be organized.
In addition, the electronic application system began to be implemented in 2011, but it was limited in functionality.
Over the past six years, 30 new kindergartens have been opened in Almaty, 7 objects owned by tenants have been recalled.
In addition, the city, together with the Kazakhstan Mortgage Company, began construction of 4 houses for 230 apartments, 6 residential buildings for 210 apartments through the joint-stock company real estate fund Samruk-kazyna.
In addition, by March 20 of this year, 7 veterans of the Great Patriotic War who arrived in the capital in the second half of 2014 and are on the list will receive their apartments, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
We also identified the 25 best enterprises that especially actively supported our action, "said Nurzhan Altai, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP.
So, from 2012 to 2014, the export of Kazakhstani meat to the EAEU member states grew almost 6 times, "T. said at best.
72 thousand tons per year - an average of 14 thousand liters per day, there are plans to increase the production of raw milk for a cow, and dairy products - 4.8 thousand tons per year.
among them 27 military equipment and weapons (t-34 tank, zis-2 cannon and M-30 howitzer, the famous bm-13 rs-30 katyusha and maxim cannon), as well as 9 aircraft (an-2 and tl-2000).
As part of the industrialization map, 38 projects worth 303.3 billion tenge are being implemented in the region, which will create 2.1 thousand jobs.
of them in metallurgy - 2760, oil and gas sector - 1220, chemical industry - 469, food industry - 1537, mechanical engineering - 1895, production of construction materials - 348, innovation sector - 2301 people.
in the presidential elections in Russia (248 people), Belarus (35 people), Ukraine (19 people), Turkey (73 people), South Korea (4 people) (8 people), China (30 people), the UK (1 person), Germany (1 person) and 437 Kazakh cadets and officers studying at military universities in India (12 people).
It is planned to implement 12 investment projects totaling 15.5 billion tenge and create 720 new jobs.	currently the region is implementing 12 investment projects in the amount of 15.5 billion tenge with creation of 720 jobs .	2,27
Since January 2, 2015, Armenia has assumed the corresponding obligations, while reaching the single market of the union (170 million people).	from january 2 , 2015 armenia assumes the corresponding obligations , while gaining access to the union 's single market of 170 million citizens .	2,27
Over the years, 29 investors have been attracted from the Global 2000 group, which, in turn, launched 46 projects worth $2.5 billion, "the report said.
we are ready to allocate $50 million for the dissemination of agricultural technologies and training, "said L. Seqiang.
The House of Friendship of Peoples during the round table discussed the program of "100 concrete steps," promoting Kazakhstan's entry into the list of 30 developed countries of the world.
The change methodology was developed by world-class experts (California, USA), which for 40 years has been used by 73 states.
In November 2013, the two countries signed an agreement on the transfer of convicted persons, ratified by Kazakhstan last autumn.
The Human Development Index measures the effectiveness of human development capital in 124 countries by assessing education, labour and employment.
the energy demand of the area is 54 MW, if this station is launched, the area will be covered by full energy.
Today, the construction of 12 residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 864 square meters has been completely completed in the Shieli district, and you will have the opportunity to celebrate the new year in new housing, "said the head of the region.
On May 12, the seventh meeting of the commission was held in Omsk, at which topical issues of cooperation in border zones, teaching Kazakh and Russian languages ​ ​ were considered.
transport and warehousing; 3 per cent on education and health, accommodation and food; real estate transactions; on average, financial and insurance activities account for 2%.
In addition, about $30,000 of financial assistance was allocated through the International Committee of the Red Cross to the humanitarian needs of the south-eastern region of Ukraine.
the special session was attended by four Vice-Presidents, two Deputy Prime Ministers, 124 ministerial representatives and delegates from other governmental, international and non-governmental organizations.
Expenses of the budget of the republic are provided in the amount of 7 trillion 244.5 billion tenge, which is 610 billion tenge less than the previous indicator, "the Minister of Finance said.
in particular, the mountain jaeger company of special purpose was created in 2000 and today is the only company of this direction in the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
To date, more than 500 automated services, including licenses and permits, can be obtained using the system.
The Chairman of the National Commission noted that the signing of this memorandum is a significant event for Kazakhstan, since 52% of the country's population are women.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, in 2014, 3.7 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of 6 major projects under the state order.
In the last three years alone, the number of enterprises with the participation of Russian capital increased by 28.0% (2010 - 250 units, 2013 - 320 units).
The question is that in connection with lending to large business entities, one borrower can receive from 200 million to 5 billion tenge.
About 60 inspectors, employees of the Department of Internal Affairs, taxes work in a specialized PSC to process documents.
To participate in sporting events on the territory of the ski and roller base in the city park, about 300 employees of the garrison of the metropolitan police gathered.
to eliminate diseases and pests affecting agriculture, we treated 7.5 hectares or 35% of the area. against pests and diseases of crops we treated 7.5 hectares or 35 % of the total area .
According to him, one of the indicators of the state program of education development of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020 is the transition to per capita financing until 2020.
this was the actual decision from the idea put forward in 1994, when I spoke at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov.
The volume of the authorized capital of the fund is 40 million US dollars, the bilateral shares of the holding and the Hungarian side are 50%.
Peter Wolcott, in turn, on behalf of the green mainland, announced the inclusion of 19 sites in the UNESCO World Heritage List.
Currently, projects have been developed to increase the total volume of housing construction to at least 150 thousand square meters, "the report said.
At the request of employers, due to partial subsidy of wages for 1,417 people, assistance in employment for social jobs was provided, 199.9 million tenge was spent.
As the Head of State noted in the message to the people "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state," 4,153 preschool institutions will be created until 2020 to cover 100% of preschool education between the ages of 3 and 6 years.
Experts do not exclude that the December indicator may become negative for the first time since October 2009.
Given the strategic course of Kazakhstan to join the list of 30 developed countries, the provision of first aid should meet the standards of the Aidu countries.
Also, 90 million tenge is provided for the overhaul of the museum, the reconstruction of the aronula mausoleum for 16.5 million tenge will be carried out.
Over the past 5 years, the export of bank products has grown 1.5 times and by the end of 2014 reached 2.6 billion US dollars.
As you know, the Nobel Prize and other initiatives begin at the age of 26, so we are carefully looking at the upcoming event in 2017.
According to the results of inspections and control and analytical measures, 312 recommendations and instructions were sent to the government, state bodies and entities of the quasi-public sector.
To date, 48 projects are being considered, implemented jointly with the Chinese side, which can be financed with the participation of 35 Baiterek holdings.
the project not only improved the situation in the field of preschool education, but also found work for another 25 people.
The leaders of the two countries discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to Turkmenistan in December 2014.
In addition, as part of the program for the development of single-industry towns, overhaul was carried out in 17 educational institutions for a total of 250.4 million tenge.
Recall that in 2014, the President of Kazakhstan in his message to the people noted the need to move to a new economy based on economic growth and structural reforms.
members of the information group held 34 meetings with residents of Pavlodar, Ekibastuz, Aksu cities, 10 districts of Pavlodar region.
These measures will make it possible in 2020 to achieve an increase in the number of doctors of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a whole to 50%.
Today we set the task to increase the number of students who received education under the dual education system to 145 thousand, "Imangaliyev said at a press conference.
As the Minister noted, from September 2015, the testing program in 30 schools will begin, in September 2016, an updated primary school format will be introduced in all schools.
The head of state instructed the government to implement a technological policy providing for an increase in oil production from the current 30% to 5.7%. elbasy instructed the government to implement technological policies to increase the oil recovery index by not less than 5-7 % , from the current 30 % .
From April 1, all projects financed by second-level banks and implemented in villages and single-industry towns will be subsidized without restrictions.
In addition, Governor of the capital visited the new kindergarten No. 64, where he got acquainted with the medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation procedures carried out in a specially equipped medical office.
In 2014, 806 million tenge of subsidies were allocated to local producers, 363.4 million tenge of credit funds were raised to finance agriculture, "the report said.
It is also planned to allocate 289 million tenge to complete the construction of the blood center and provide it with the necessary equipment, "the information center said.
The national management holding Kazagro was given budget loans in the amount of 60 billion tenge to support agro-industrial complex entities.
According to him, 89 inspections were carried out during the cooperation, as a result of which 10 control acts were drawn up and 19 state institutions were held accountable.
If 2010 people were injured in 2179, then according to the results of 2014, cases of industrial injuries decreased by 8% or amounted to 2006 people, "the vice minister said.
the new substation will provide energy to facilities of categories 1 and 2, this is the airport, Almatyelectrotrans JSC, Azmk LLP, Zvezda microdistrict, a number of industries and the private sector.
To date, 11 fish processing plants with an annual capacity of more than 8 thousand tons are operating in island and state-owned areas.
a loan for a natural monopoly facility is granted for 30 years and 0.02 percent per annum, "he said.
In 1944, when I was 17 years old, I was sent to the front off the Baltic coast, or rather to Mongolia in Manchuria, China, the area of ​ ​ Lushunkou in the port of Arthur. at the age of 17 in 1944 , i was drafted to the trans-baikal front , manchuria , mongolia , china , the lüshunkou district - port arthur .
Participants in the Chinese delegation expressed interest in investing in the project and creating 500 new jobs, "the statement said.
Military personnel of military units 41321, 51051, 41433 and students of the military-technical school of Atyrau passed a solemn formation in front of veterans of the Great Patriotic War, and also demonstrated methods of hand-to-hand struggle.
This year Kazagrofinance plans to direct 32 billion tenge to finance agricultural machinery, of which 10.5 billion tenge - to spring field work, 22 billion tenge - to cleaning and offseason.
In order to support industrial enterprises, the action plan for 2015, approved by the minutes of the government meeting in January of this year, is being implemented.
In 2015, it is planned to sell Almaty power plants by a number of companies engaged in the construction of gas turbine stations at the Pridorzhnoye field, such as the Almaty light company, Almaty Power Engineering LLP, Tengizmunai LLC.
According to the Minister, to solve these issues, the memorandum provides for the modernization of the city by the computers of the Mayor's Office of the city by 20%.
Since 2015, not only legal entities, but also individual entrepreneurs can participate in the competition - these are innovations. not only entities but private entrepreneurs will be able to participate in the competition since 2015 .
Recall that the Nauryzbay district was created in 2014 by the decision of the extraordinary xxix session of the Almaty city maslikhat.
among investors - "alstom" (France), zao "transmashholding" (Russian Federation), talgo kazajstan s.l. (Spain), simple electronics industry and ticaret a.s. (Turkey), ge transportation (aksh), "transmashdiesel" (rf), "sts-general contractor" (Ukraine), "silk paper industry and ticaret a.s. "(turkey) and jsc" selena fm "(poland)," says a.sayabaev.
According to the director, currently the coalition and partners - public organizations have announced an online competition "expo 2017," in which domestic inventors and scientists will also take part.
Young architects from 20 countries will present projects of energy-efficient residential complexes, which will be built on the territory of the Expo-2017 exhibition.
they are constantly declining, because it is necessary to increase the productivity and competitiveness of products, "N. Nazarbayev said during the national teleconference" New industrialization of Kazakhstan: results of 2014 and the first five-year plan. "
According to hook experts, the participation of women in the labor market will accelerate the country's economy by 30%, "he said.
6 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for exploration and replenishment of mineral resources and geological study of promising parts of minerals, "said M. Usainov.
The purpose of the event is to raise the necessary funds for the completion of the construction of a new protective vault, which will be installed over the Chernobyl nuclear reactor (cost - 100 million euros).
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, a plant for the production of 140 tons of dairy products for 180 tons of goat milk per year operates on the farm.
Mangistau region grew by 66.3% and amounted to 239 square meters. meters, Kyzylorda - 46% and amounted to 86.7 thousand square meters, "the report said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, over the past time, the peacekeeping mission as part of the coalition forces totaled 290 Kazakhstanis.
On March 3, they also nominated themselves in the order of self-nomination: safiolla kalabayula aldazhan, Koyshiev estuary, abdukarim and suhrab aminzhanovich myrzashov.
In general, by 2020, it is planned to allocate $20 billion for the development of the transport industry through various sources of financing.
Currently, $62 million has been allocated to modernize the existing machine-building production on the basis of the Karaganda machine-building plant to meet the needs of Kazakhmys subsidiaries.
80 Jasulans (students in grades 9-10) will stand before the historical and modern sections of the parade.
In January-November 2014, compared to the same period last year, the number of registered marriages in the justice authorities increased by 9%, divorces - by 8.4%.
It is worth noting that the next xxxi meeting of the conference of general directors (responsible representatives) of railways will be held in April 2016 in the Republic of Kyrgyzstan.
On the eve of 2015, an unprecedented event took place in the post-Soviet space: veterans received personal congratulations and gifts on behalf of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, among public organizations 160 people, of which 8 work, the rest, by interest, find the professions they need.
Kazakhstan is a neutral republic.
Recall that the real estate agreement was signed in the capital on May 29, 2014 by the presidents of Belarus, the republics of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
until our obligations are over, there are 8 years, so we will invest in the agro-industrial complex. we still have more than 8 years , we will also direct these funds to support agriculture .
In 2014, the Governor of the region signed a comprehensive plan to provide housing for orphans and children left without parental care.
from the moment of flooding in the Karaganda region, 48 settlements and 2 wintering in 9 districts belong to the flooded region. since the beginning of the flood period in the karaganda region 48 settlements and 2 wintering on the territory of 9 districts were flooded .
Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, has been a member of the Economic Partnership Organization created by Iran, Pakistan, Turkey since 1992.
The participants noted the need to accelerate trade and investment cooperation on the eve of the "international Lithuanian-Kazakh transport and logistics conference," scheduled for June 5-6, 2015 in the city of Klaipeda of the Lithuanian side, taking into account the potential of the two countries.
In addition, during the action, it is planned to deliver a special capsule with a message from veterans of the Great Patriotic War to the future generation in 2045.
In addition, another intellectual school with 900 seats has opened in the chemical and biological direction, and documents are currently being accepted.
the largest number of rescued - in Almaty region (37 cases - 857 people and 377 pieces of equipment), eastern Kazakhstan (21 cases - 503 people and 184 pieces of equipment) and Karaganda region (16 cases - 174 people and 20 pieces of equipment).
aa. According to Sembinov, in 2014, services worth 3.2 billion tenge were provided at 300 facilities registered in the field of tourism, which is 1.3% of the local budget.
how do you characterize inter-ethnic relations in your region? 97% of respondents noted that representatives of all ethnic groups live in the world.
The reason for this was that in September 2013, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev handed over to the head of the Spanish government mariano Rajoy 152 archival documents on the hostages of the karlag.
At the beginning of this year, Kazakhstan, together with the 2050 Kazpost movement, presented an all-republican project on the employment of rural youth at facilities being built as part of the Nұrly Zhol state program.
At the end of the event, the commander of the military unit 53975, Colonel Nurlan Baidullayev wished the youth unlimited love for the Motherland.
Recall that last year the country's poultry farms produced more than 3.2 billion eggs and 148 thousand tons of poultry meat.
at the solemn meeting, the head of the defense department of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk, the Sakauov justice, presented veterans with jubilee coins "70 years of great victory."
Given these opportunities, we aim to double the volume of east-west traffic by 2020. given these capabilities , we are to double the volume of transit route between east and west until 2020 .
in particular, compared to 2013, the production of processed milk increased by 6%, milk powder - by 24.4%, butter - by 11.6%, ice cream - by 14.6%.
most of the new arrivals moved to Kostanay region (233 people), Zhambyl region (199 people), South Kazakhstan region (124 people), Mangistau region (159 people), Akmola region (68 people), Karaganda region (54 people) and other regions.
over the past 5 years, production plants with a total capacity of 1800 MW have been modernized, restored and put into operation in the republic.
On the city-airport highway, 485 old energy-saving lamps were replaced, 112 LED lamps were installed on billboards, 17 LED lamps were installed to illuminate the forms of "seven wonders of mangystau."
Since that time, the association will unite more than 130 universities of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Bedaroos, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine in the Eurasian space.
In 2014, the country's international reserves as a whole, including the assets of the national fund, increased by 7.3% to 102.5 billion US dollars, "the National Bank said.
if difficulties arise, the plan should comply with 7 articles of the labor code, "he said.
In addition, today the peasant farm owns 600 hectares of land, of which 160 hectares are potatoes, the rest are wheat.
According to him, after the completion of the modernization of the Ekibastuz maes, it will be possible to export more than 800 kw of energy annually.
in particular, according to the subsidy program, the state plans to return 7% of the total financing rate to agricultural producers.
coverage of children from 1 to 6 years old in the region is 64.4% (2013 - 61.3%), from 3 to 6 years old - 87% (2013 - 83.5%), "the statement said.
For 9 months of 2014, the capacity of the generated electricity of 76 power plants of the country amounted to 67.79 billion kvts (compared to the same period last year, growth amounted to 101.1%). electricity generation for 9 months of 2014 , carried out by 76 power plants of the country was 67.79 billion kwh ( compared to the same period of last year the figure rose to 101.1 % ) .
According to Vladimir Malchev, Director of the Department of Production Policy, currently the pharmaceutical market of the EAEU countries depends on imports, in Belarus - 75%, in Kazakhstan - 88%, in Russia - 82%.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
with the introduction of new capacities, salt production will increase one and a half times and amount to more than 200 thousand tons.
the museum fund has more than 2 thousand exhibits, of which 900 copies belong to the main fund, more than 1000 to the reserve fund.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that according to the results of the first five-year plan of the industrialization program, 770 enterprises have been created in Kazakhstan, the share of which is 1.5% in economic growth.
after the war, she returned to Kazakhstan and married, becoming the mother of three children, raising 11 grandchildren and great-grandchildren today.
Under the Nұrly zhol program, citizens will be able to purchase domestic transport up to 3-5 years for a preferential loan, the rate of which does not exceed 4%.
Today, during the meeting of the industrial park of Astana, 10 memoranda were signed for a total of 105 billion tenge in order to develop local and large enterprises of the capital.
The coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years in pre-school education is 98.2%, from 1 to 6 years old - 85.5%.
During the meeting, Abidzhanov presented invitations to the leaders of associations of Buddhists and Daoshniks to the upcoming V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015.
According to the CEC of Kazakhstan, 441 call centers have been created in the country, voters will be able to find out in which branch they will vote.
75 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for projects in the railway industry and transport logistics and additionally financed by the national company for 19 billion tenge, the vice minister said.
He took a loan in the amount of 3 million tenge, opened a killing shop and provided work for 10 people.
According to current data, the population of the Kostanay region as of December 1, 2014 amounted to 881.5 thousand people, including 459.9 thousand people (52.2%) - urban and 421.6 thousand people (47.8%) - rural population.
now the theater team has entered a beautiful new building with appropriate equipment, an auditorium with 600 seats, a small hall with 150 seats.
In the field of preschool education and training, 18 preschool organizations with 2321 places were opened, including 16 kindergartens with 2300 places, 2 mini-centers with 21 places.
The event was attended by representatives of national companies and holdings, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, state bodies, foundations and development institutions, the press service of the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" reported.
in the first year, the cadets study the importance of military affairs necessary for them in the upcoming service, take a military oath and conclude a contract for a period of 10 years.
Itimova also urged young people to pay more attention to the program of industrial and innovative development, the strategy "Kazakhstan 2050" and choose professions that will be in demand in the future.
At the same time, it should be noted that about 100 thousand people will be involved in the repair and construction of roads of the republican and regional directions.
So, according to the head of the fund, the number of small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan over the past 3 years has increased by 26%, and the companies that women open - by 28%.
the Prosecutor General's Office before the moratorium ensured the completion of inspections of more than 10 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises.
The volume of food and beverage services in January-December 2014 amounted to 256.8 billion tenge and increased by 0.9% compared to January-December 2013.
the share of deposits in the cash supply structure increased from 91.2% at the end of December 2014 to 91.6% at the end of January 2015.
the culmination of these constitutional values ​ ​ is that 120 representatives of ethnic groups and 17 members of religious denominations live in peace and harmony in Kazakhstan, "he said.
To date, 18 sites and 149 lakes of the Small Island Sea are assigned to environmental users in long-term use.
To achieve this goal, it is planned to implement 12 mega-projects totaling 2.4 trillion tenge in the road industry until 2020, "he said.
The event was attended by 20 pieces of equipment, 25 crews, 250 military personnel working under contracts, the Ministry of Defense said.
residents and guests of the city will be provided with 56 tons of meat, 5 tons of milk, 75 tons of vegetables, fruits, agricultural and food products for a total amount of 100 million tenge.
According to the ministry, along the transit corridor "Western Europe-Western China," 50 service facilities operate in the Kordai settlement.
Recall that "national information technologies" were launched within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020" and the program on forced industrial and innovative development.
Guests told schoolchildren about the fronts of 70 years ago and called on them to become patriots of their country.
It is planned to create more than 200 thousand jobs, "he added.
a restaurant, a library, a cinema concert hall with 150 seats, a children's playground, a disco bar, karaoke, billiards, a mini-cinema, an Internet cafe are open for guests.
The volume of retail trade (without public catering turnover) in January-December 2014 amounted to 6020.8 billion tenge and increased by 12.1% compared to January-December 2013.
the plant has been operating on the Kazakh market since 2012, the main area of ​ ​ its work is the production of reinforced concrete products.
Since 2010, the existing enterprises of the industrial park produced products worth 328.1 billion tenge, of which 119.3 billion tenge is accounted for in 2014. in 2010 the existing enterprises of the industrial park produced goods worth 328.1 billion tenge , including in 2014 - 119.3 billion tenge .
of them, cargo turnover through Iran to the countries of the Persian Gulf should be at least 5 million tons, "- said K. Alpysbayev.
The author of the letter notes that in 1999 he graduated from the master's degree in the Rochester Institute of Technology with honors in tourism and hospitality.
In January-November 2014, 73751.6 thousand tons of cargo were transported by road, which is 0.6% less than in January-November 2013.
Recall that over the past six years, 37 new kindergartens have been built and commissioned in Almaty and 7 preschool education facilities have been returned to communal ownership.
college infrastructure includes educational workshops, laboratory rooms, computer classes, multimedia and lingaphone rooms, a library with a computer room, a dormitory with 200 seats.
the number of active enterprises will increase by 3%, production output - by 5%, working in the field of small and medium-sized businesses - by 3%.
just two years after the start of construction - on May 15, 1957, the R-7 rocket was first launched on Baikonur, on October 4 an artificial earth satellite was launched.
5.1 billion tenge of credit was allocated to agricultural structures for spring field and harvesting, of which 91% was repaid.
Crop production sold by agricultural structures in 2014 rose by 20.8%, livestock production - by 2.4%, the report said.
It is noted that 27.2 million tenge was allocated as part of the state social order, a total of 35 socially significant projects were implemented, of which 22 districts.
Thanks to the tax payments transferred by enterprises to the budget, the costs of building industrial park No. 1 were fully reimbursed, "the metropolitan administration added.
To date, 35 types of dairy products will be produced under this new model, and another milk production industry will be launched in the future.
loan term - no more than 5 years, loan currency - tenge, mandatory down payment - no more than 20% of the cost of the purchased car, "the statement said.
In 2020, housing commissioning will be 1.4 million square meters, of which 487 square meters we plan to rent this year. the volume of housing will be approximately 1.4 million square meters by 2020 , including 487 square meters that we plan to commission this year .
According to the president's instructions, by 2020 it is necessary to provide preschool organizations for one hundred percent.
As a result, the soldier of the military unit 29108, who received the most votes, became the winner of the Miss Garrison - 2015 contest.
Today we have seen how your proposed policy of becoming one of the 30 developed countries has demonstrated its stability and effectiveness. today 's , we see that the course proposed by you to join the top 30 most developed countries of the world is completely proved its worth and effectiveness .
crop production growth is 96.9%, since in 2013 the volume of gross crop production amounted to 120.7%.
In accordance with the draft water protection zones and bands of embi, chewing gum, iron and their industries, 7,826 signs were installed.
According to the Governor's Office of Semey, the first object of the visit was the construction site of a new school in the village of Yunost for 1,200 children and a "Nazarbayev intellectual school" in the pine microdistrict.
In addition, a fair of agricultural producers is held in the summer and there is a 450-ton vegetable storage on the market.
aa. Idrissov defined separate areas of work within the framework of Kazakhstan's chairmanship in 2015 in the Union of Independent States and in the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States.
On February 14, 2015, at a meeting of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, all delegates unanimously supported the initiative to hold early presidential elections.
In general, the work on signing this convention began in 2008, and over the years we have created all the necessary opportunities. we have signed the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its optional protocol in 2008 .
In total, 24,216 births were registered in Astana in January-December 2014, which is 10.8% more than in the same period last year.
it is also proposed to reduce the financial burden on the payment of mandatory membership fees for holdings by 25% or 50%, depending on their composition.
I also instruct to develop an action plan to combat the shadow economy of Astana for 2015.
The action plan "70 good deeds" is being implemented with the participation of school students, pupils of preschool institutions, college students.
Applications are accepted within 30 calendar days from the date of publication of the announcement, the national holding reported.
I came to Kazakhstan for the sixth time, for the last time - 22 years ago, now I see great progress, significant development of Kazakhstan in two decades. i come to kazakhstan for the sixth time , for the last time i was here somewhere 22 years ago , i watch a lot of progress , i watch the development over the past two decades .
In addition, more than 3 thousand entrepreneurs were registered in the district, the volume of products produced by them reached 1.6 billion tenge.
the largest volume of sales is in Petropavlovsk - 97.1 billion tenge or 61% of the regional trade turnover, Musrepov - 19.5 billion tenge (12.2%), Tayynshin district - 9.6 billion tenge. billion tenge (6.1%).
that is, 30 days - to receive the architectural plan of the object, 20 days - to approve the design of the project, 10 days - to obtain the permission itself.
Recall that 150 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund for 2015-2016 for the modernization of the housing and communal system and water and heat supply networks.
Tax revenues from SMEs and other entities amounted to 124 billion tenge, which is 7.5% more than last year, the report said.
During the forum, the ceremony of awarding the winners of the worldskills kazakhstan national championship and the international exhibition of education and training technologies worlddidac astana 2015 took place.
Recall that this initiative was put forward by Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2013 during a visit to our country at Nazarbayev University.
On March 5, 2015, the acceptance of applications for participation in the pool of buyers and tenants of housing begins.
According to Nurlan Sagnalin, Director of Dairy Events LLC, with the help of a cluster of meat products in the Aktobe region, 1500 thousand jobs will be created.
As you know, since 2011, container trains have been regularly moving along the Chongqing - Friendship - Duisburg route.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the factory "kyzylzhar-poultry" with a capacity of 8 thousand tons of meat per year has been restored in the rural zone of Aksu.
In 2006 and 2010 - Deputy Akim of the Karaganda region, Chairman of the Board of Sarah-arka.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 10 regions of the republic, the volume of production in the Kyzylorda region corresponds to the level of last year.
Kazakhstan, together with you, will be successful and will be among the 30 developed economies in the world, "the letter says.
According to him, the "100 steps for transformation" announced by the president will increase the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan.
Today, 92% of children aged 3 to 6 years are covered by preschool education in the region as part of the Balapan program.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, in the Chagan rural district it is planned to implement a project in the field of tourism "Hunting cordon" for 55 million tenge.
most of the applications received, 78% are leasing agreements, 22% are loan agreements.
In 2017, the winter universiade will be held, we are also working on an application for the 2022 Olympic Games.
Akim of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov at the official opening ceremony of the Year of Kha handed over the baton of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "20 good deeds" of Akmola region.
Currently, 15 quadripartite agreements have been concluded with representatives of colleges, employers, the education department and the metropolitan chamber.
however, 70 per cent of the liquidated budget was allocated as grants by local executive bodies.	during the meeting it was announced almost 70 % of the total budget , which is in the form of subsidies allocated agro-industrial complex is distributed through local agencies .	2,35
in general, Kazagro group of companies plans to allocate 97 billion tenge for spring field work in 2015 at the expense of all sources of financing.
b. On September 17-18, 2014, he thanked the representatives of the Ministry of Al-Azhar and IDA for participating in the XIII meeting of the secretariat of the interreligious forum in Astana.
The law is aimed at transforming the internal troops of the Ministry of the Interior into a national guard, which is part of the system of internal affairs bodies for the implementation of the decree of April 21, 2014.
In the post-Soviet period, 210 Kazakhstanis knew the academy, among which 25 students defended their doctoral and Ph.D. dissertations. during the post-soviet period , we trained 210 kazakhstani people , 25 of them defended doctoral and master 's theses .
In addition, the Majilisman added that 100 billion tenge allocated to the Baiterek holding from the National Fund are provided for financing business entities in 2015-2016.
of which 39.5% were doctors of sciences, 57% were candidates of sciences, 3.0% were doctors of technical, pedagogical, medical, agricultural, economic, legal and other sciences.
In addition, in accordance with resolution No. 63-3 of 5 May 2008, the authority of the fund to use currency in the investment and special costs account was expanded.
in the second direction, "employment through the development of entrepreneurship and supporting villages," 10 people studied the "basics of entrepreneurship."
In 2014, 297 students of higher educational institutions, technical and professional education organizations received scholarships totaling 28.8 million tenge, "the report said.
Also, as part of the bill "On introducing a number of amendments to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities," the allocation of 9 billion 900 million tenge until 2018 is provided.
50 children with disabilities are expected to participate in the event.
So, as a result of the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, more than 10 thousand existing jobs were saved and about 2 thousand new jobs were created.
Participants of the event demonstrated their performances in various directions, more than 40 applicants from 10 districts and cities of the region.
In January-February 2015, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 1.0% compared to the corresponding period last year.
As A. Yessimov noted, since 2011, the number of companies in the territory of Alatau has increased 4 times and amounted to 158 companies.
So, in the South Kazakhstan region, mobile groups additionally visited 4 villages, in Mangistau - 49, in East Kazakhstan - 51, in Atyrau - 20, in Karaganda - 49, in Pavlodar - 27.
The Ministry of Education and Science has announced a grant for this year, in which about 5 thousand applications will take part, the participants of which will be scientific inventors, - said A. Suleimenov.
All forms of campaigning on or before election day are prohibited (article 32 of the Constitutional Law).
Recall, on February 11, 2015, at an expanded meeting of the government with the participation of the head of state, countercyclical measures of economic policy for the current year and for the medium term were determined.
244 veterans from 14 regions and cities of Almaty, as well as 16 veterans of the Second World War living in the capital were invited to participate in the military parade and festive events.
there are 23 registered enterprises and organizations - public associations and funds (hereinafter - funds), 4 - associations of legal entities, 3 - institutions, 3 - state enterprises, 2 units - consumer cooperatives.
The report details the course of the presidential elections held in 2015 and reflects the importance of the party-political system for the country.
Recall that Olga Shishigina became the champion in athletics at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney.
The purpose of the commission is the phased implementation of these 5 reforms, coordination of actions of state bodies, business and civil society, "the President said.
The people of Kazakhstan speak about the legitimacy of the elections, since 95% of the population took part in the elections.
And we worked from the age of 5 to not drop the spirits of warriors, "he added.
the Department of State Architectural and Construction Control (29 functions) and the State Administration for Land Use Control and Protection.
Currently, 54 rural subscribers are connected to the gas supply network, currently work on this purpose is ongoing.
In general, since 2010, regional technical parks have provided technical business incubation services to 116 new innovative enterprises totaling 975 million tenge.
At the same time, he noted that in 2015 the volume of industrial products will decrease by 0.3%, in 2019 - by 2%.
Also, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution "On accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015."
In 2015, guests from Tatarstan are expected to arrive to celebrate Sabantoy in a new historical place.
the cost of living in December 2014 increased by 1.5% compared to previous months.
This year we plan to reduce the cost of production by 7.8%, all current and administrative expenses - by 20%, as well as investment programs - by 18%, "said the chairman of the board.
S. Ravanyan noted that diplomatic relations between the two countries began in 1992, and economic ties between Kazakhstan and Italy are strengthened every year.
To discuss joint projects that can be implemented in preparation for expo 2017, representatives of Stanford University, solarcity and motors are invited to the Astana Economic Forum, which will be held in May this year.
The scientific and clinical center has 7 departments, operating rooms, a life support department, equipped with modern equipment, comfortable rooms.
Recall, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at an expanded meeting on February 11 of this year instructed the government to develop a reserve of operational measures in the amount of 250 billion tenge.
On March 28, 2015, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution "On accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations for the early presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for April 26, 2015."
According to the information center of the region, "vostoktsvetmet" entered into an agreement for 43 million tenge with such an enterprise as "pkf rauan," "St. George pump plant," the production company "turbomash."
At polling station No. 92 in the coastal microdistrict of the capital K. Zhakupov.
Taking into account the signed agreement, the organizers provide a 20 percent discount for Kostanay companies to participate in this exhibition.
24 public museums of Akmola were selected as winners.
Kyzylorda region (3 gold, 2 silver, 5 bronze), West Kazakhstan region (2 gold, 3 silver, 1 bronze) and Pavlodar region (2 gold, 1 silver) reached the highest indicators in the number of medals.
in accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 101 observers from three international organizations and nine foreign states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that until 2010, the formation of statistical reports was carried out on the basis of a local information complex.
First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party Bauyrzhan Baibek presented the main prize in the amount of 2 million tenge to the Kanatbek Zaitullayev from China.
As for the number of kindergartens built in accordance with the public private partnership program (18), Semipalatinsk reached a record high.
continuation of industrial programs and your speech at the inauguration, which showed the country's development prospects in the next 5 years, "said Karim Massimov.
a reflection of the crisis was observed due to the decline in prices for export goods of the country, especially for oil, the value of which over the past six months has fallen below $50 per barrel. manifestation of the crisis was the fall in prices for export commodities of the country , especially oil , which costs half a year fell below 50 dollars for a barrel .
The main contribution to the solution of the problem of the effective use of energy resources for sustainable development, of course, is the holding of the EXPO in the capital in 2017. expo 2017 in astana will make a special contribution to the solution of problems of energy resources .
The total area sown is 6.3 million hectares, which is 17% more than in 2014.
In 2014, within the framework of state support for the peasant economy, the Damu Enterprise Development Fund allocated 66 million tenge to finance the construction of a project for an automatic casting workshop.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the foreign trade turnover amounted to 3.3 billion US dollars, the trade balance was positive and amounted to 1 billion dollars.
This year, work will be carried out on 306 km of roads, 265 km of roads will be reconstructed, an average reconstruction of 41 km of roads will be carried out.
To date, fictitious installations have been installed in 10 sections at the pipeline site and barriers in 50 sections have been eliminated, "said E. Izatov.
during the Great Patriotic War, citizens drafted to the front from the Almaty region were awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union - 53 people.
A copy of the battle flag of the 72nd Guards Rifle Division was delivered to Petropavlovsk by employees of the military branch 55/10 of the city of Kokshetau.
Today, a global brand with a 30-year history, a network of furniture stores covers 60 mines from Lebanon and Belgium.
On the fourth - final day of competitions Kazakhstan Maria Sizova won a bronze medal at a distance of 500 m.
Over the past 6 years, judicial acts have protected the rights of foreign investors and legal entities for 240 billion tenge.
At the same time, as of December 1, 2014, the hidden unemployment rate amounted to 0.3% of the economically active population.
The director of the Rostov company, Vladimir usury, noted that this year the company plans to export 150 tons of cheese to Vladivostok.
At the same time, in December 2014, the number of registered transactions for the purchase and sale of housing amounted to 13,856, and compared to the previous month increased by 6.0%.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, the term of scientific study of the Kazakh Khanate is 22 years.
The project of the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050 invest in Kazakhstan" provides for comprehensive information to investors about the investment climate, potential of Kazakhstan, prospects and investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan, as well as about opportunities arising in conducting business.
In general, 35 thousand people will be trained in the near future, "said T. Balykbaev.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, today 2 doctors and 7 nurses work in the outpatient clinic equipped with new modern equipment.
irena is an international organization created on January 26, 2009 at the initiative of the Federal Government of Germany and as a result of active support from Spain and Denmark.	irena is an international organization , established in january 26 , 2009 in bonn city on the initiative of the federal government of germany with the active support of spain and denmark .	2,38
In the future, it is planned to build two more kindergartens with 350 seats in the district center and open two mini-centers at schools with 50 seats.	in the perspective construction of two more kindergartens for 350 seats and two mini centers under schools for 50 seats .	2,38
It is worth noting that on behalf of the head of state last year the construction of 3 routes began: central-southern, central-eastern, central-western.	the construction of roads in 3 directions : center-south , center-east and center-west was started last year by the instructions of the head of the state .	2,38
According to the West Kazakhstan region, the department will include 23 people - doctors of sciences and candidates, young teachers, graduate students.	according to the dip , the department consists of 23 people - doctors , phds , young teachers , graduates of the master 's degree .	2,38
120 people are involved in the work of the complex, and when it reaches full capacity, 285 people will work here.	the enterprise involved 120 people , and its output on a designed capacity of 285 people are employed here .	2,38
Since the creation of the rehabilitation seaport "Aea," the volume of investments in existing and under construction enterprises in 2028 amounted to 30 billion tenge.
under the programs for the development of livestock "altyn asyk," "kulan," "wolf" and "zhailau" agricultural producers of the region acquired 13 thousand sheep and 1.5 thousand horses.
Last year, the library established constructive relations with 32 well-known scientific centers in Kazakhstan, China, Japan, India, the European Union, Central Asia and the Caucasus.
During the implementation of the Program of Competition Leaders - National Champions, we expect that these companies will increase labor productivity by 10% per year, export products - by 30% per year.
The Minister noted that as part of the agreement of the Eurasian Economic Union, it is planned to create a common electricity market until 2019.
It is worth noting that today 162 veterans of the Great Patriotic War and 11 soldiers of the siege of Leningrad live in the regional center.
The infant mortality rate in Kazakhstan for the 11 months of 2014 was 10 per 1,000 live births, which is 13 per cent lower than in the same period in 2013 (11.5). during 11 months of 2014 the infant mortality rate in kazakhstan amounted to 10 per 1000 live births , which is 13 % lower than the same period in 2013 ( 11.5 ) .
Last year, an educational institution with the Kazakh language of instruction for 420 students was commissioned in the village of Maykain in the Bayanaul district.
At the end of 2014, the sectors of industry, construction, transport, trade, as well as services received the greatest success.
As part of the measures for the financial recovery of agribusiness entities, 292 applications of entities worth $312.9 billion have been approved since the beginning of the year, he said.
As part of the second wave of privatization, as of December 1 of this year, in accordance with the schedule for the sale of state property, 203 objects were put up for sale, 100 objects were sold. as the part of the second wave of privatization on december 1 of the current year 203 state property have been offered for sale , 100 objects have been sold , " m. abylkasymova explained .
Based on the results of their consideration, 283 determinations were executed, 626 claims were satisfied, 1,476 proposals to eliminate violations were considered, 31 civil lawsuits totaling 51,480 million tenge were satisfied.
Bogatyr coal is one of the world's largest open-cast coal enterprises, with reserves of 3 billion tons.
this is 37 million tons of coal per year, 16 million tons of oil, 20 cubic meters of natural gas per year.
Thus, the Employment Road Map 2020 programme covers 534 people, 50 per cent of whom are women.
In addition to the park, a school with 1,200 seats, a restaurant, a palace of celebrations will be built in these places.
The Minister also noted that in 2012 changes were made to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, after which a system of self-regulation was launched.
Life expectancy is reported to have increased by 3.5 years to 74.4 years, and mortality has decreased by 15%.
Recall, on April 29, the head of state signed a decree on the election of Karim Massimov to the post of prime minister.
It is worth noting that in March 2015, the Government of Kazakhstan adopted a resolution "On the approval of the Unified Program for Business Support and Development" Business Roadmap 2020. "
Recall that today in Kazakhstan there are 494 reservoirs, of which 76 are of republican significance, 299 are communal property, 111 are private, 8 are abandoned.
"yldirim group" (mining and metallurgical complex, metallurgy, subsoil use), "okan holding (sultan marketing)," "anadolu beverage group (coca-cola icecek)" and other large Turkish companies invested in Kazakhstan.
In addition to the Kazakh teams that make up the Ministry of Defense and other power structures, 42 more teams from 20 countries will take part in the competition.
According to the chairman of the relevant committee, the results of 118 research projects were used in 2014.
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that 1900 seats will be allocated this year, and in the coming years the number of seats will be increased to 2500-3000 thousand.
While in 2000 the youth unemployment rate was about 18 per cent, in 2009 it was 8.5 per cent.
According to the Vice Minister, the area of ​ ​ organic agriculture in the country is 296 hectares.
Until 2015, the volume of attracted investments on the basis of regulated tariffs exceeded 1.146 trillion tenge, "the report said.
In January-April 2015, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 8.7% compared to the corresponding period last year.
Recall, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the enlarged government meeting on February 11, 2015 instructed to start the national action "Made in Kazakhstan" in support of domestic producers.
In addition, dan akhmetov said that an additional 2 billion tenge will be allocated from the regional budget for the construction of housing.
According to the results of the first negotiations, the volume of export potential to these countries (European countries - a) amounted to 160 million tenge, "the minister said.
Also, 28 environmental clubs have been created, on the basis of which classes will be opened on the slogan "Clean water-healthy family."
For example, today a third of the managers of companies in the metropolis are women, more than 50% are women among individual entrepreneurs.
he also noted that thanks to Nursultan Nazarbayev, the goal of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world is already beginning to take on a true character.
migrant workers will have the right to transfer 10% of income to a single funded pension fund, "said the Vice Minister.
In 2014, in the foreign exchange market, our companies sold $9.2 billion, for production needs - $5.7 million.
From June 1 to 15, 2015, a single national test (ent) will be held in the country, in which more than 100 thousand school graduates will take part.
55.6% of our compatriots of working age, 39.9% under the age of 18 years, 4.5% of pensioners.
According to the results of 4 months of this year, despite the fact that the region has become non-oil, Almaty as a whole in the country has gained 33% of taxes, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The filming of the film was facilitated by the fact that in September 2013, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev handed over to the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy 152 archival cases about Spaniards arrested in a karlag.
Currently, the number of Kazakhstanis working in the industry exceeds 1 million people, "the President of Kazakhstan said at the national teleconference" New industrialization of Kazakhstan: results of 2014 and the first five-year plan. "
According to him, for the purpose of investment subsidies to entities within 11 months, the bank entities approved 758 applications of debtors in the amount of 7.8 billion tenge, of which 13.6 billion are planned for the current year.
According to the regional Governor's Office, 67 ski rental points and 57 skate rental points operate in cities and districts in order to organize and conduct a winter holiday for residents of the region.
In June 2017, it is planned to introduce 8 broiler sites, 6 poultry houses, an incubator, an administrative site and a waste processing workshop.
today in the Eurasian space, Belarus subsidizes about 16-17% of gross agricultural products, and Russia - 11%, only we subsidize 4%.
Recall that in 2014, the volume of gas consumed in the country amounted to 12.4 billion cubic meters.
To systematize the process of Kazakhstan's entry into the idu, a joint country programme of edu and Kazakhstan will be adopted in January 2015. in order to systematize the process of kazakhstan 's accession to the oecd in january 2015 the country program of cooperation with the oecd will be adopted , which will reflect the incremental activities on accession to the various structures of the oecd , " m. abylkasymova said .
he noted that the number of civil cases is about 450 thousand, which indicates an increase in the confidence of citizens of Kazakhstan in the judicial system.
in this race, an officer of the Main Directorate of Ammunition, Sergey Prokhorov, covered the distance in 15 minutes 10 seconds and finished best in cross-country skiing.
For 10 days, sergeants mastered the tactics of units and troops, underwent reconnaissance training.
70% of children treated in childhood will have eyes and speech patterns.
The number of unemployed in May 2015, according to estimates, amounted to 455.6 thousand people, the unemployment rate - 5.0%.
According to the chairman of the board, leasing remuneration is 13.4%, of which 7% of the remuneration is paid by the state under the subsidy program.
So, on March 26, citizens will be received by a member of the committee on legislation and judicial reform of the Mukhtar Tinikeev, on March 31 - a member of the committee on social and cultural development of the Gulmir Isimbayev.
It is noted that 350 million tenge was spent on the Development project, loans worth 250 million tenge were received from second-tier banks, the rest - the plant's own funds.
Kazakhstan - 2050. "
The implementation of 5 institutional reforms announced in Nursultan Nazarbayev's election program will require significant systemic and institutional changes at the central and regional levels.
In 2015, 7 projects worth 435 billion tenge (2260 new jobs) will begin, the largest of which is the construction of the Bozshakol mining and processing plant.
If the pasta situation is favorable, we will reduce mutual exchange rates to 1%, "said K. Yelimbetov.
Also, since the beginning of the year, 292 people have been employed in current vacated jobs, 43 people have been covered with potential jobs.
Today, during a report to the population of Astana akim Adilbek Jaksybekov noted that over the past two years, 10 new industries with an investment volume of more than 20 billion tenge have been introduced.
For three years, 16 thousand hectares of irrigated land were commissioned, including 6.1 thousand hectares last year.
Currently, there are 126 traffic lights in the city of Taraz, four brigades with equipment and materials necessary to ensure uninterrupted operation.
On December 23, 2014, at a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council at the level of heads of state, a list of service sectors in which a single market operates within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union was approved.
In the afternoon, the Deputy Prime Minister took part in the opening of a regional boarding school with 200 seats for children gifted in sports.
37 billion tenge will be allocated to finance the procurement of equipment necessary for spring field work and the harvesting campaign. about 37 billion tenge will be allocated on financing of the spring field work and purchase equipment , including harvesting .
As noted, 71 years ago it was on this day, January 14, 1944, that the daughter of the hero of Kazakh glory was born.
Coverage of children from 1 to 6 years old is 64.4%, children from 3 to 6 years old - 87%.
On March 22, 2013, after ratifying the charter of this international organization, Kazakhstan is considered a full member of Irena.
We hope that from January 1, 2016 we will live in accordance with the new customs legislation, "said V. Goshin.
In 2015, the Vostochny command plans to expand its caring ties with the country's universities.
Over the first five-year period, $ 2.5 60 billion of new production was launched, more than 16 thousand jobs were created. Over the period of the first five-year plan 60 new productions totaling 2.5 billion dollars commissioned, more than than 16 thousand jobs were created.
Recall that at the expanded government meeting, the head of state noted that the state should pay great attention to supporting the agro-industrial complex, for which 20 billion tenge was allocated.
According to information, most of the citizens' appeals relate to land issues - 2440 (76.4% of the total) and belong to the housing and communal services - 1468 (23.7%).
According to the Ministry of Defense, in 2014 the Saryarka ship was launched by order of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
The action, which started from the capital, will continue on January 6 in Semey, January 8 in Kapchagai, January 9 in Otara, January 12 in acquittal, January 13 in Almaty, the report said.
5 cases of violations by the territorial subdivisions of the monitoring bodies have been registered, for which the procuratorial authorities have taken measures of prosecutorial supervision.
And on May 18, people gathered for the "Night in the Museum" event will visit the special theatrical excursion "Kazakh Heroes" and will witness various thematic exhibitions.
250 billion tenge will be allocated to the government reserve for additional capitalization of the fund of problem loans taking into account the possibility of further deterioration of the country's economy. taking into account possible deterioration in the business environment it is proposed to direct 250 billion tenge planned for the capitalization of the fund of bad loans to reserve of the government .
It is worth noting that the Tedh conference was held for the first time in Central Asia in 2010 in Almaty and became one of the first independent organized conferences in the world.
In the 2014-2015 academic year, metropolitan students won 150 medals in general education subjects at international olympiads and scientific competitions.
at the flour mills of the city there are 4738 tons of wheat, 94 tons of barley, 47 tons of corn and 20 tons of rye.
The Order of the Patriotic War was presented by the army general, the hero of the Soviet Union, the people's hero of the sagadat nurmagambets in 1985.
According to representatives of the Governor's Office, the ceremony of handing over keys to apartments will be held as part of the large-scale regional action "70 star days."
As part of the implementation of the program for 2008-2010, the construction of 6,282 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 288.6 square meters has now been completed.
In addition, according to the akim, in 2014, the share of projects introduced as part of the industrialization map in industrial production amounted to 35%.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan "Atameken" intends to provide support in the form of public procurement and procurement of national companies, the cost of which is 9 trillion tenge.
By setting high goals and targets for becoming one of the 30 developed countries, we have fundamental capabilities. having outlined the ambitious aims and tasks to enter the top 30 developed countries in the world , we have a strong foundation .
in addition, unique objects will be opened - a spherical pavilion, a large open stage, a congress hall with 3,000 seats.
In addition, he instructed to open another 100 hockey courts in the region, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
rural outpatient organizations go on to maintain primary forms of registration in electronic form from January 1, 2017.
Within the program of cheese making in the region 1 thousand heads of cattle were purchased for 5.3 billion tenge or the plan was completed for 114 pppai, "- said D. Selikhanov.
Together with the leader of the nation, we will achieve the goal of becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world, "the letter says.
In social spending, the volume remains stable after the reduction in total spending in 2015 - at the level of 39, 2% or more than 2.8 trillion tenge. the share of social expenditures in 2015 compared the total expenditure given the reduction remains stable - 39 , 2 % , or more than 2.8 trillion tenge .
special proposals were being made to address the problem, saving 2 cubic kilometres of water resources.
He went to Afghanistan, where he died in 1981 during a military operation in the city of shindanta, "said Tatyana Otroshenko.
Mr. Tuimebayev first proposed the idea of Eurasian integration in 1994 by President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev said.
tax revenues amounted to 97 billion. Tenge increased by 8% compared to 2013, while 30.7 billion were transferred to the local budget. Tenge with growth by 10%.
The Governor's Office of the region signed 236 memoranda on the preservation of jobs with employers and trade unions of 781 enterprises.
the economic belt of the silk road "in September 2013.
The volume of state support increases annually, this year the volume of subsidies amounted to 148.7 billion tenge, which is almost 1.7 times the level of 2013 (88.4 billion tenge) and 2012 (90 billion tenge).
According to him, according to a specially conducted analysis of foreign exchange operations of national companies, since 2010 about 40% of companies hold deposits in national currency.
Thus, as of March 28, 2015, the central election commission registered 83 observers from 18 foreign states and two missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis).
the share of enterprises opened within the industrialization map in the total volume of domestic construction materials in 2014 amounted to 114.5 billion tenge.
Recall, "Tank Biathlon 2015" will be held this summer on the basis of the Alabino training complex near Moscow.
According to reports, over the past 5 years, using marginal tariffs, the volume of investments in the electric power industry increased by 5 times and amounted to about 700 billion tenge.
3.7 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for measures to combat locust, including 721 million tenge for the purchase of pesticides and 3 billion tenge for chemical treatment. 3.7 billion tenge from the national budget are allocated for the fight against dangerous pests , including 721 million tenge for procurement of pesticides and 3 billion tenge for carrying out chemical treatments .
The first competition, which passed the 5th stage, is held in secondary school No. 2 of the city of Taldykorgan under the name "Sport is the key to health!." from the sports stage.
in peacetime, he served as director of a rural school - 44 years of pedagogical experience.
we had to identify 5 main directions for ourselves and visit them all, as well as visit the polling stations of the capital. we have identified 5 routes that we followed , it was obligatory to visit polling stations .
Recall that the legalization of property and funds began in Kazakhstan on September 1, 2014 and will last until December 31, 2015.
In addition, in the city of Atyrau, as part of state support, the construction of 3 residential facilities with equity holders will be completed.
According to the press, according to preliminary forecasts, about 300 million tenge will be required for the construction of a waste treatment plant.
3) personnel development costs related to certification of goods, works and services and quality management system.
In 2015, within the framework of the gender equality strategy, the amount of funds for the implementation of the project increased 2.5 times and amounted to 9.2 million tenge. in 2015 , the financing of projects in the framework of the strategy of gender equality , has been increased by 2.5 times and amounted to 9.2 million tenge .
in the Karasai region, a third of all products of the region are produced, about 20 large enterprises work here.
on the stage came the combined military orchestra of the Taldykorgan garrison under the direction of the head of the orchestra of the military unit 18404 captain A. Otanov (18404 a/b and 21751 a/b).
Within the industrialization map, 6 projects worth 22.8 billion tenge were implemented, about a thousand new jobs were created. 6 projects worth 22.8 billion tenge creation of about a thousand new jobs have been implemented as a part of the industrialization map in the past year.
According to Nurtas Ermaganbetov, technical director of the Kazazot Zhsh winch and bathing branch, there are 4 gas collection points at the field, it is planned to open one.
In addition, the memorandum between the Almaty akimat and the samruk-kazyna fund is 100 billion tenge.
and in the second direction - microcredit of 380 million tenge in the framework of employment through the development of private entrepreneurship in the countryside.
first stage - issue of architectural design assignment is carried out within 30 days from the date of application submission.
Recall that within the framework of the state program "Employment Roadmap 2020" you can take special retraining courses and become the owner of a new specialty.
According to the information, more than 58% of the total industrial production of the region is produced by enterprises with more than 50 employees.
At the same time, as noted by the Kelimbets, in 2014 the National Bank fund increased by 17%.
According to the results of 2014, 138 people need a year in Kazakhstan - heart, 250-300 people - liver, 1384 people - kidneys, 3-5 people - lungs, 37 people - pancreatic transplantation. as of 2014 , in kazakhstan 138 people need a heart transplant , 250-300 - liver , 1384 renal transplant , 3-5 people - lung transplant , 37 pancreas , " the report said .
Mukhamedzhanov is also the author of two monographs, more than 150 scientific articles and theses, six teaching aids.
As part of the mega-project "Road Map of Peace and Harmony," the relay race "20 good deeds" was launched.
According to him, in January-December 2014 the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 6574.7 billion tenge and increased by 3.9% compared to 2013.
young talents performed in 14 categories, including "classical and folk musical instruments," "choreography," "fine art," "photography," "art and hand art, clothing design," "folk singing" and others.
He also noted that military units 30212, 82796, 63302, which are part of the 40th Otar military base, were created and sent to the front in the first days of World War II.
these are the crews of tank battalions in military unit 35748 of Shymkent, military unit 21450 of Otar and military unit 85395 of Taraz.
By the end of the year, the social card will be implemented in stages, and in 2016 - fully.
Currently, 70% of finished products produced in this complex are exported.
Recall, on May 4 of this year, a commemorative event will be held dedicated to the results of this action.
During the conversation, guests expressed support for Almaty's candidacy to win the right to host the 2022 Winter Olympics.
The assets of the National Fund in 2014 increased by 3.9% and, according to preliminary data, amounted to 73.6 billion US dollars. in 2014 the assets of the national fund increased by 3.9 % and according to preliminary data amounted to 73.6 billion dollars usa .
Adjusted forecasts in the bill are projected that the price per barrel of oil in 2015-2017 will be from 80 to 50 US dollars.
Khorgos-East Gate will increase trade through the mound by 8 times, increasing freight by 4 million per year.
Lithuanian entrepreneurs intend to develop a logistics center and greenhouses, that is, an agreement was concluded for $7 million.
From July 1 of this year, 50 city buses will begin to use free Internet, and from October 1, free Internet will be launched on another 50 buses.
The company has a great social responsibility for the development of the region, the company allocates up to 3 billion tenge for these purposes.
30% of these costs are the world bank, the European bank, the Asian bank and other institutions we agreed upon, "the head of state said.
No later than April 20, 2015, ballots will be delivered by special communication to the polling stations of the capital and Almaty, regions.
assembly of the people of Kazakhstan - 20 good deeds. "
It is planned to transfer more than 70% of this dance platform to novice entrepreneurs, "the report said.
it is also expected to attract additional funds from international financial institutions, this is about 1 trillion tenge or about 5.5 billion dollars.
the most represented specialties in the number of students in doctoral studies are natural sciences - 20%, law - 13.2%, humanities - 12.2%.
In the reporting period, the number of migrants moving within the State increased by 60,753, or 19.5 per cent, to 372,353, compared with 2013.
55 savings accounts for money legalization totaling KZT9.9 bn have been opened for second tier banks.
In August 2013, an external control procedure was introduced for the oxy textile LLP.
Also, the program "Nұrly zhol" provides 3 million tenge for 863.7 projects and 15 million tenge for 4259.5 projects under the program "White Stream."
Also in the city of Atyrau, the privatization process is actively underway, 303 applications were received, in the Kurmangazinsky district - 33, in the Zhylyoy region - 15.
Since its creation, the system has issued more than 370 thousand permits, notifications and more than 120 thousand licenses.
local factory produces pasteurized milk with a fat content of 3.2%, kefir with a fat content of 2.5%, sour cream with a fat content of 20%, cheese and butter.
The educational group of Kazakhstan began its tour in Turkey in 2013, becoming the cultural capital of the Turkic world.
according to our calculations, the holding of early presidential elections in 2015 will involve measures to prevent a crisis.	so holding of the presidential elections in 2015 will save money and prevent synchronization .	2,44
in addition, article 29 of the EEO treaty provides for the exclusion of goods from the domestic market from the regime of their activities.	however , the article 29 of the eaeu treaty provides the exceptions to the functioning of the internal market of the order of goods .	2,44
we want prosperity and stability, a bright future for our children and grandchildren, we support the holding of presidential elections in 2015.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, according to the results of 2014, the share of SMEs in taxes and other revenues amounted to 66%.
In 2014, the regional health budget grew by 5.8% and amounted to 30.9 billion tenge.
in arch and zerendin districts, assistance was provided in accessing fuel and lubricants in the amount of 15 million tenge, household appliances, furniture, warm uniforms, shoes.
According to the head of state, the main goal of the state is to enter 30 competitive countries of the world and introduce standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development member countries in Kazakhstan.
371 thousand tons of grain crops were collected in the primary weight, which is 2013 thousand tons more than in 32.7 years, "the acting head of the department noted.
in general, the estimated cost of the facility is more than 800 million tenge, and the housing area exceeds 10 thousand square meters, "the report said.
According to him, 20 billion tenge is planned to be allocated to support automakers, including 15 billion tenge - to car loans to individuals, 5 billion tenge - to leasing schemes for legal entities.
According to statistics for 2014, doctors of general practice of Kazakhstan make up 3.6 thousand people, 38.5% of the total number of doctors of Kazakhstan.
Also, the national company and akimat signed a memorandum on procurement of goods and services of capital enterprises for 50 billion.
food prices increased by 8%, non-food goods - by 7.8%, paid services for the population - by 6.4%.
Recall, according to Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of April 5, 1997 No. 3443, Kazakhstan annually celebrates May 31 the day of remembrance of victims of political repression.
I started with an assistant forester, then was promoted to chief engineer, then worked as a director for 17 years.
At the same time, it should be noted that in January and March it is planned to supply 147 thousand tons of diesel fuel.
In 2015, two more complexes will be built in the village of Pyatikolskoye, Kyzylzhar district. yesenalines.
of which 4 projects were launched in 2014 - slide 15, 16 dis, kis whitewash LLP, Caspian Highway LLP, Caspian Layer LLP.
investment costs will be reduced by 18%, which does not apply to large projects such as iiudb-2, the Nұr zhol program, expo-2017 facilities, etc., "said Nashkev.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, this is provided for in the framework of the Concept of modernization of the pension payment system of Kazakhstan until 2030.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, as part of a business trip, he visited a new fire station, commissioned in 2014.
Thus, as of April 3, 2015, the Central Election Commission accredited 337 observers from three missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis), one international organization (Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States) and 27 foreign states.
Among the objects visited by the head of the department is the industrial construction plant of Kis-whitewash LLP, opened in December 2014 in the seaport of Akea.
It is noted that 27 jobs were represented, 23 people turned to representatives of organizations, 7 applicants were employed for permanent jobs.
Currently, 650 tons of potatoes are stored there, which will be sent to the capital until the next potato harvest.
in total, the project cost amounted to 2 billion 800 million tenge, of which 1.6 billion tenge was spent on the purchase of equipment.
At the 80th Green Week Fair in Berlin, 1,650 exhibits from 70 countries were presented (in 2013, 1,630 exhibits from 67 countries were presented).
So, 2014 is declared the year of education development in Almaty, thanks to which last year 4 new kindergartens for 480 places were built and put into operation.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 109 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
According to social and entrepreneurial funds for social and entrepreneurial funds for 2014-2015, 110 objects were installed according to the sales schedule.
According to him, today the program "Business Roadmap 2020" provides a set of measures and benefits to stimulate domestic producers.
To date, most or more than 80% of visitors to these centers have expressed a desire to participate in state support programs, "he said.
In addition, in order to develop the food belt around the capital, 13 projects worth 37.8 billion tenge are being implemented this year.
these works have made it possible to increase the capacity of pipelines and ensure a stable and high-quality supply of thermal energy to all consumers of microdistricts 11, 12 and the "future."
According to the chairman of Sberbank, 100 concrete steps are a fundamental document that Russia needs to overcome the economic crisis.
Act of 9 July 2004 on the ratification of the statutes of certain international organizations.
The work involves internal affairs bodies and local authorities, 355 people of public utilities, 47 pieces of equipment, 3 motorized rifle rescue units, he said.
Post office No. 9 has been serving the local population for many years, now it will serve in a new format.
Within the program "Nrla zhol" 450 billion tenges will be in addition allocated for modernization of housing and communal services in 2015-2019, from them 60 billion - in 2015", - told to. nskenbayev.
To date, 100 kazpost offices have been transferred to the electronic queue system; by the end of 2015, it is planned to transfer another 200 offices. today , 100 branches of " kazpost " connected to the electronic-queue , till the end of 2015 ; it is planned to connect another 200 branches .
for example, at present in Almaty 16 joint Kazakh-French enterprises and 37 enterprises work with French capital.
if you add the irony "kegoc" to it, then it amounted to 40 billion tenge, "he added.
for comparison, 90% of the country's citizens do this, and 2% of the country's population is spent on good purposes.
in addition, in 2015, the area of ​ ​ plantations will be increased to 20.0 hectares, potato area to 150.0 hectares.
January 14, 1943 he was drafted into the Armed Forces of the USSR.
The main area of ​ ​ cost systematization is new projects and programs that will be implemented in 2015, minus their implementation for 2016.
Nevertheless, right on the day of victory - on May 9, a festive concert in honor of veterans will be held at the theater, "said the maestro.
In addition, from July 1, a system of conditional social payments for low-income families based on contracts will be introduced in a pilot mode in all regions of the country, "said Duissenova.
the building houses the city department of culture and linguistic development, clubs and folk groups, the regional philharmonic society, 6 national-cultural centers.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 830 employees of the above organizations are involved in the provision of public services to villagers.
Within the framework of the exhibition for agricultural producers of the region there are sections in 4 directions.
According to the results of 2014, the number of small and medium-sized businesses increased by 33.6 thousand units or by 4.3% compared to 2013. at the end of 2014 the number of small and medium-sized business totaled 33,600 units or 4.3 % compared to the same period of 2013 .
The total number of doctoral students at the end of 2014 was 401 people, of which 265 people or 66.1% were women.
The championship was held in the hall of the capital's sports complex "Capital," in which 187 athletes from 12 regions of the country, the capital and the cities of Almaty took part.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 830 employees of these organizations are involved in providing public services to villagers.
6 months ago, the Macedonian government decided to open an embassy in Kazakhstan.
According to him, over the past 20 years, the service sector in Kazakhstan has been ahead of the production industry by 3% and amounts to 54.2%.
this will allow us to bring oil production to 38 million tons, and also provide 20 thousand jobs, "the minister said.
322 billion tenge will be allocated from microfinance organizations, and government support funds will amount to 39.2 billion tenge.	micro finance organizations will get financing in the amount 322 billion tenge , the co-financing by the government will amount to 39.2 billion tenge .	2,47
The volume of processed goods in Karaganda region amounted to 3.1 billion in 2014. US dollars.	the export of processed goods in karaganda region for 2014 was 3.1 billion dollars .	2,47
From September to October of this year, language training of quota categories according to the new 6 + 6 model will be carried out.
could not see the 70th anniversary of the victory, but was preserved in memorable awards about his feat and life.
Recall that from March 1, 2015, the party "Nұr Otan" within the framework of the project "Ardaқtayy" completed the release of a new web resource dedicated to the great victory.
5.9 billion tenge was allocated for the repair and improvement of 19 educational facilities, 1.4 billion tenge was equipped with interactive equipment.
The total cost of the project is 23.5 billion tenge, to date, 250 people have been employed at the facility.
the deputies also got acquainted with the activities of the Pogodaevo border outpost, visited the Raw Car border control department and the 2029 military unit.
The second batch of 580 cattle, which came in December 2014, will begin a smooth physique during this year.
a total of 32 medals, including two orders of the "Patriotic War," "for courage," "for military achievements," "for the victory over Japan," "People's Republic of China" and the Mongolian People's Republic.
According to the president, cargo turnover in the Kazakhstan section of the Western Europe-Western China corridor will reach 30 million tons per year.
According to the head of the joint-stock company, 20 documents worth $800 million were signed at the recent Kazakh-Turkish forum.
817 unemployed people were attracted to public paid work, since the beginning of March 99 people have been employed in this way, "the report said.
Recall that in the fall of 2014, the international conference "2200-year history of Shymkent" was held.
In 2014, Kazakhstan implemented for the first time a national plan for greenhouse gas emissions and amended relevant standards.
Of the 14 necessary facilities, 8 were built and commissioned, three more will be built for the 2017 universiade.
According to him, 800 jobs will be created in the agro-industrial zone, where 25 thousand tons of vegetables are produced annually.
At the end of December 2014, 33.4 thousand people were officially registered with the employment authorities, "the department said.
I want to announce the opening of the first press center, which is located on the ground floor of our building at World 4, "he added.
According to the ministry, a resident of the North Kazakhstan region received an application for the legalization of property in Russia in the amount of 421 thousand tenge.
According to the legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, as of March 30, the state revenue authorities of Astana did not receive applications.
2) submit to the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan the results of monitoring and evaluation of the program in the time frame and procedure established by Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 4, 2010 No. 931 "On some issues of the further functioning of the state planning system in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
according to the decision of the board of directors, the national fund will allocate 85 billion tenge to the Baiterek holding to support domestic exporters and producers, of which 70 billion tenge in 2015 and 15 billion tenge in 2016.
It was planned to send 15 veterans to festive events in the capital, and 2 veterans of the Second World War to events in Moscow. it was planned to send 15 veterans to participate in the festivities in astana and 2 veterans in moscow .
According to the report, in December 2014, compared to the same period in 2013, the cost of renting commercial real estate increased by 3.3%.
To implement this project, the Damu Entrepreneurship Support Fund, with the support of white and cesnabank, invested 500 million tenge.
Most of the construction work was carried out by 77% of privately owned contractors, 0.1% - in state ownership, 22.9% of the total volume - by foreign contractors.
150 countries have signed a convention to protect the rights of citizens with disabilities
Today, the deposits of the region provide 35% of the world's uranium production and occupy the first place, "the head of state said.
In the period from March 24 to 29, 2015, medical train specialists provided medical assistance to the population of 12 stations, 3,036 people were examined, including 575 children.
To create an audiovisual version of 48 hours of dastan, consisting of 68 discs in the hd version, 22 jerks worked.
B.Saparbayev noted that by the end of the year a plan of festive events will be developed, the concept will be approved in January 2015.
enterprises and institutions of the region provided charitable assistance to 58 thousand low-income citizens in the amount of 230 million tenge, "the report said.
The Head of the Secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions informed about preparations for the Fifth Congress on June 10-11, 2015.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the new branch of Abvgdeik is designed for 75 children.
Information systems of all 7 districts of the region will be ready before August 2015, after which they will be combined and transferred to the regional level.
Compared to 2013, this figure increased by 5.9%, "said the head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning of the region.
According to reports, a total of 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
The Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region invited students of special correctional school No. 4 to Enki LLP and Breath JSC.
More than 3 million children of preschool and school age, as well as student youth, will take part in various events.
natural gas production for the year reached 4,736 million cubic meters with a 6% increase, in addition to the 2014 plan, 267 million cubic meters were produced.
According to the Committee of Civil Aviation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the talks the Kazakh side proposed to increase the volume of traffic between the two countries by 35%.
all polling stations of the Mangistau region began work at 7:00 in the morning according to the time of rehabilitation.
As noted in the department, by 2025 the liberalization of some types of sectoral services - road transportation, construction activities will be completed.
Abdikalikova noted that Kazakhstan intends to take an active part in the international exhibition "expo 2015" in Milan, presenting its own national pavilion.
In January-February 2015, 83.8% of investment investments were directed to industry, 8.5% to real estate operations, 2.1% to information and communication.
Compared to 2008, we have strengthened our food security and the meat export program is being replenished, and we are also loading for export, the deputy added.
According to preliminary data, poultry production in 2014 produced 3.2 billion eggs and 138 thousand tons of poultry meat.
The share of the processing industry in industrial production is more than 70%.
In 2010, an effective innovative infrastructure was created, consisting of 8 technology parks, 4 design bureaus, 21 commercialization offices and 5 regional commercialization offices, 2 international technology transfer centers.
One-time capital investments in construction are needed to provide 100% housing for military personnel of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the results of the study of the fund's group of companies on the social stability index during 2014 were summed up.
So, in the Akkayyn district, the modernization of Rostan LLP was carried out, the capacity of which reaches 140 tons per year.
In addition, the head of the region noted that the volume of investments in our region from 2014 to 2017 is 47 billion tenge, of which 33 billion tenge is private investments.
Thanks to the state support, according to the results of 2014, the productivity of gross agricultural products reached 238.8 billion tenge.
4.5 million tons of coal and 157 thousand tons of fuel oil were collected at energy source warehouses, that is, in accordance with the standards of the fund.
in addition, postal departments will work around the clock (self-service territory "post 24"): for financial activities - ATMs and payment terminals, for postal services - abortion boxes, and in the future - postamats.
according to the law, pension payments are recalculated annually ahead of inflation by 2%.
Production of the imported unit is considered to be schneider electric (France), jeanmuller (Germany), abb (Germany), areva t & d (Italy), sel (Italy).
in 2016 - 2.2%, in 2017 - 3.3%, in 2018 - 3.6%, in 2019 - 4.1%.
3 automatic stations (2 in Pavlodar, 1 in ekibasutz) operating in on-line mode were put into operation every 20 minutes to monitor the state of atmospheric air.	for carrying out monitoring of a condition of atmospheric air 3 automatic stations ( 2 - in pavlodar , 1 - ekibastuz ) are entered which work in the mode on-line each 20 minutes .	2,50
Recall that tomorrow, February 19, the presentation of the republican budget legislation for 2015-2017 will be held at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	a presentation of the bill on amendments to the republican budget for 2015-2017 will be tomorrow on 19 february in the mazhilis .	2,50
In 2014, 8,527 civil cases were received by juvenile courts, which is 4.3% more than in 2013, he said.
As of January 1, 2015, 1,590 small and medium-sized enterprises were registered in the district, of which 1,437 are actively working.
Recall that about 90 thousand people from political, expert and business circles of 3 countries of the world take part in the VIII Astana Economic Forum.
irena is an international organization created on January 26, 2009 in the city of Bonn on the initiative of the German government and based on the active support of Spain and Denmark.
According to him, the design capacity of the enterprise is 1,500 tons of sugar beet per day, and the plant will make every effort to fulfill this goal.
the meat processing plant is designed for 240,000 thousand heads per year and produces 21 thousand tons of finished products per year, the report said.
A diploma of the I degree was awarded 48 schoolchildren, II degree - 97 schoolchildren, III degree - 168 schoolchildren.
In particular, the project to build a plant for processing fruits and vegetables of Standing Integration and a warehouse for storing up to 5 tons of products.
Recall that in the near future the ranks of the Air Force of Kazakhstan were replenished with new highly maneuverable Su-30 cm generation 4 + + fighters.
In 2015, this service will enter into force after the government decree comes into force by the end of February, he said.
catering, trade and services were not included in the Business Roadmap 2020 program, accounting for 30% of Almaty's economy.
The People's Detachment train is designed for 50 posts.
In addition, 27% of tax payments, which remain the main donor of the Almaty republican budget, come from the southern capital.
In the city there is a natural growth in the population, which is 6405 people, or 105.8% of the level of 2013.
to date, 60 thousand tenge for each hectare of sugar beet, in order to increase its acceptance price, 50 percent of the plant's costs are subsidized.
design consumption and cost of natural gas in 2015 will reach 419.3 million cubic meters.
If last year 500 people came to the tests in the region, then this year there are 1,506 people, "she said.
128 schoolchildren took part in the rally, including the winners of the tourist-regional expedition "My Homeland-Kazakhstan" in the regions, "the report said.
of these, surgical technologies make up 38.4%, diagnostic technologies - 40.6%, therapeutic technologies - 21%.
In general, food imports decreased by 6.2%, imports from the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union decreased by 10%.
As a result of early detection of diseases, mortality from malignant tumors in Kazakhstan in 2014 decreased by 100, 0 per 94 thousand of the population.
18 enterprises are engaged in the production of food products, 15 in the production of mechanical engineering products, 14 in the production and distribution of electricity, and 6 in the water supply.
foreign trade turnover with other countries of the customs union in January-November 2014 amounted to $9.3 million, which is 16.7% more than in 2013.
the construction of a slaughter for 15 tons of meat per shift and an obese site for 500 heads continues, "the report said.
This year, 20 diaspora representatives living in 11 settlements on the territory of a landscaped rural district planted 20 bags of poplar.
The National Commission for Modernization, established by the head of state, is the guarantor of the successful implementation of 5 institutional reforms. establishment of the national commission on the modernization is an important factor to implement 5 institutional reforms sucessfully .
the purpose of the document is to terminate the activities of the Eurasian economic community, as well as its bodies, from January 1, 2015.
construction of a modular house-building factory, project cost - 668 million tenge, Alan buildinq systems LLP ensured the creation of 88 new jobs.
It is reported that within 4 months the cadets will get acquainted with the real education of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
As for the new mechanisms of state support, for the financial recovery of the agro-industrial complex entities today, Kazagro holding attracted Eurobonds worth about 2 billion US dollars.
According to the expert, the total cargo turnover for all projects implemented in Kazakhstan in the transport and logistics sector will reach 283 billion tons/km per year.
So, the green bridge partnership program initiated by the President of Kazakhstan, the concept of the transition to a green economy, supported at the Rio + 20 conference, as well as the international exhibition expo 2017 in the capital.
the capacity of the plant according to preliminary plans will be 7 tons per day, and jobs - 40 people.
The Victory Fire will pass through the streets of cities and districts of the region for 70 days.
We will remind, earlier in the Kazakhstan piggy bank fedor Meseni won a bronze medal at a distance of 1000 m.
It was this situation that contributed to us becoming one of the 50 developed countries in the world, "said the head of state.
The National Nuclear Company of Kazakhstan takes debt with an annual rate of 2% + libor for a period of 4.5 years.
At the same time, the volume of gross whooping cough production amounted to 2.3 billion tenge, compared to 2013 - 100.1%.
and for girls it is planned to overcome 3 kilometers in 19 minutes, our military girls covered this distance in 15 minutes.
3 types of milk processed and stored for 1 year of neutralization increased the production volume of the plant by 2 times.
Youth will also be prepared for work in the service sector during the 2017 expo and winter universiade.
Teams from 12 countries of the world take part in the championship: Kazakhstan, Norway, Italy, Poland, Estonia, Belarus, Russia, Mongolia, Finland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Chinese Taipei.
Recall that in 2015, the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan took the initiative to hold early presidential elections.
6 steps - general measures on development of a system of values "the m g_l_k ate", to strengthening of the all-Kazakhstan and public unity.
Thus, since 2018, the main sources of pension payments will be the budget and contributions of employers.
In 2008, the volume of exported goods from Kazakhstan amounted to 1865, over 5 years this indicator increased to 724 items, in 2013 the number of exported goods reached 2220.
The movement of goods, services and capital and labor by 2025 will be carried out without any obstacles. the free movement of goods , works and services , capital and labor without restrictions and barriers will be provided by 2025 .
For 32 years he worked as a freelance lecturer in the regional committee of the party, "he added.
According to the data at the beginning of 2015, 477 investment projects worth 309.1 billion tenge are in the investment portfolio of Kazagro national holding.
for example, in the European region, the consequences of this disease incur losses of up to 20 billion euros per year, "he said during the conference.
the reconstruction of the heat sources of Semey city for a total amount of 3 billion tenge will also continue.
The level of gasification of the population of Kazakhstan by 2030 will be 56%, which will allow gasification of 1600 settlements, "said the Vice Minister of Energy.
dairy production amounted to 13 thousand tons, which is 2013% higher than in 8.7 years.
This year, 97 educational institutions of the capital took part in the competition, "the Governor's Office said.
In the East Kazakhstan region, where the largest number of people wishing to take part in the lifting program, out of 4460 citizens, 208 became participants.
completion of the relay race and summing up is expected in April 2015 on the eve of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan.
As previously reported, the first tranche of the national fund in the amount of 50 billion tenge, allocated for financing projects in the manufacturing industry, came from Baiterek holding in December 2014.
Recall that last week, members of the Government of Kazakhstan visited the regions of the country, where they concluded more than 17 thousand memoranda with major enterprises.
in addition, "construction of pasture watering infrastructure" - 101 applications; " creation and expansion of irrigation systems "- 80 applications were approved.
According to the results of the competition, 16 winners were awarded diplomas of laureates and valuable prizes.
previously, the state flag and battle banners were used at the military parade in 2005, 2009, 2011, 2014, as well as at the parade held in Otara in 2013.
According to M. Susainov, the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program in 2019 will increase GDP by 15.7% compared to 2014.
this allowed the modernization of existing power plants with a total capacity of 5,000 MW and the launch of another 1700 MW of electricity.
According to the Deputy Minister, every year 5 million people, including 1.3 million children, are vaccinated against various diseases in Kazakhstan.
The plan provides allocation more than 47 billion tenges on a number of actions in the sphere of municipal services and transport and transport infrastructure.
Another allocation of day was the opening of a medical outpatient clinic for 50 visits per shift.
Currently, as military observers in Western Sahara, 4 officers of the Kazakh peacekeeping brigade Kazbrig serve in a joint mission to maintain peace and security during the referendum.
As part of the implementation of 71 infrastructure measures in the field of health, education, social assistance, construction and housing and communal services, 871 people were employed.
Thus, the volume of industrial production in Kostanay region in 2014 compared to 2008 increased 1.6 times (from 341 billion tenge to 532 billion tenge).
according to the plan, the blood center should be commissioned before April 1, and the drama theater - before May 1, the report said.
In total, 13 psychological officers from the Almaty, Kapshagai, Taldykorgan, garlic and Zharkent garrisons took part in the meeting, "the report said.
According to him, about 20 million people live in the cross-border regions of Kazakhstan and Russia, of which more than 5 million are Kazakhstanis.
According to the head of DBK, within the first and second tranche from the National Fund 100 billion tenge was used to support the processing industry.
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-December last year increased by 12.6% and amounted to 20,630 people.
Oil production in 2015 is projected at 80.5 million tons, oil refining - 14.3 million tons.	according to mr. karabalin oil production is expected to reach 80.5 million tons in 2015 year .	2,53
In 2014, a project of the production complex "central asia gold production" for the melting of precious metals worth 2 100.0 million tenge was launched in this area.
to date, 252 rural districts of 124 districts of the republic are covered by mobilization groups, more than 60% of the planned number.
kdb is the operator of the preferential car loan program launched on April 20 of this year.
the migration gap of the city of the capital with the following CIS countries is of positive importance: Uzbek (+ 318 people), Kyrgyz (+ 60 people), Turkmen (+ 7 people), Armenian (+ 7 people), Tajik (+ 7 people), Ukrainian (+ 6 people) and Azerbaijani (+ 5 people).
It is worth noting that by 2050, science financing in Kazakhstan should amount to at least 3% of GDP.
installation of a 24 km, 0219 * 6 pipeline with installation of satellite pipes with a blue effect thermal device;
Thanks to this, 3 housing estates, 5 settlements of urban subordination were gasified, "the akim said.
a number of innovations were also reflected in the legislation of Kazakhstan, which will be launched from 2015, "said the director of the department.
The head of the Department of Industrial and Innovative Development of Marat Iskakov noted that the Zenchenko and Co company plans to produce 40 thousand tons of vegetable oil per year.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the project provides for a meat processing plant, a pig complex of 4 farms and a feed plant.
Recall, on January 15, 2015, the victory flag was officially awarded to the republican school "Young Guard."
in particular, 104 million eggs per year, "said the chief livestock specialist of the poultry farm.
According to the results of 2014, trade turnover between Almaty and Lithuania amounted to 180 million US dollars, including exports - 123 million dollars, imports - 57 million dollars.
He noted that the cost of one-time material assistance to veterans and war invalids is 100 thousand tenge.
in eastern Kazakhstan, the life expectancy of women is 10.7 years higher than that of men was 75 years.
40 million tenge was allocated through the fund of financial support for agriculture, 40 people received microcredit.
In this regard, it was noted that the 2nd International Conference of the Checks Force will be held in March 2015 in Kuala Lumpur.
According to the Governor of the region, according to the results of the first five-year plan, projects worth 76 billion tenge were implemented in the region.
Therefore, we ask you to support the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to hold elections in 2015, "the authors write.
In addition, the educational institution has a celebration hall with 120 seats and a dining room for 300 people.
According to the Vice Minister, more than 4 thousand projects implemented in settlements are socially significant objects.
In 2015, 200 billion tenge will be spent along with 100 billion tenge allocated by the National Bank in December 2014, which are aimed at preferential financing of manufacturing entities within the second tranche, he said.
the total length of ski roads is 7.5 km, the northern part is 5 km, the southern part is 2.5 km.
the share of manufacturing industry was 7%, after the industrialization program - 14% and amounted to 17.6 billion tenge, "he said.
36 of them - for construction and installation works (totaling 10.08 billion tenge), 38 - for drawing up design and estimate documentation (totaling 510 million tenge).
So, last year the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to about 1 billion dollars, and growth exceeded 16%. for example , the volume of investments in fixed capita reached 1 billion dollars , the growth of investments exceeded 16 % .
the necessary equipment is available for these events, farmers are provided with fuel and lubricants and loans from the republican budget in the amount of 60 billion tenge.
The forecast of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 was prepared on the basis of indicators of the development of these industries for 2014 and indicators of the situation and prices in the world commodity market.
signed agreements provide for financing up to 10 years, a low percentage of lending without state guarantees.
Work on the replacement of pipelines from 3D Island to the Future complex should be completed before the second half of 2016.
38.8% of approved projects are in the manufacturing industry, of which 18% are in the food industry.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, in 2007 Kazakhstan adopted an employment roadmap, which provided employment during the global crisis.
3018 or 42.2% of the cases examined, and the second case of deprivation of parental rights - 2710 and 38%, "he said.
Since 2006, a project has been implemented to preserve the gene pool of Aral fish listed in the Red Book of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev announced the implementation of the national plan - 100 steps to implement five institutional reforms.
The cost utilization rate for the reporting period was higher than in 2013, 99.3% of the planned for the republican budget was absorbed.
Since this year, at the following ages, the number of women begins to prevail: for 1000 men there are 1,003 women.
in the health sector from 27.3 billion tenge in 2012 to 32.9 billion tenge in 2014.
According to him, 12 forest institutions and 28 forest users work in the state forest fund.
this is 15% more than in the coming years, and twice as much as in the best years of the Soviet era.
the indicative level of additional allocations from international financial institutions is about $9 billion.
at the flour mills of the city there are 4,515 tons of wheat, 119 tons of barley, 44 tons of corn and 20 tons of rye.
If in 2010 passenger traffic amounted to 1 million 600 thousand people, then in 2014 it reached 3 million, that is, its level, "said the chairman of the board.
The revenue part of the budget amounted to 61 billion tenge, which is 30 percent more than last year, the Governor's office reported.
For 74 young army men, the vital activities of military personnel were demonstrated, military equipment and weapons were demonstrated.
Recall that the meat processing plant "kazbeef ltd" has been growing angus and herford seeds since 2010.
According to Akmola region Governor's Office, the lamb production enterprise was launched in 2012.
As for the European experience, since 2015, roaming activities have been approaching free stay in them. if you look now at the european experience , then in 2015 they practically is zero .
the main sources of housing finance are the own funds of private developers (55%).
The event was attended by 11 teams from Akkol, Astrakhan, Atbasar, Bulgar, Yesilsky, Yereymentau, Enbekschilder, Tselinograd districts and Stepnogorsk districts.
By July of this year, prepare a project of 10 iripanel, 10-15 brick houses, "said D. Akhmetov.
aa. According to Saduakasova, more than 280 thousand jobs were presented at practical classes for students.
During the visit, the Turkish delegation visited military unit 68665 and got acquainted with models of weapons and military equipment at the Kazakhstan Light Engineering plant.
when starting the workshop, it is planned to increase the milk processing capacity to 6820 tons per year and increase the variety of products.
The volume of sold products and services in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises for 9 months of 2014 amounted to 411.7 billion tenge.
According to the results of 2014, Kaztransoil's consolidated profit amounted to 46 billion 431 million tenge, which is 26.9% lower than the 2013 result.
veteran was awarded the orders of "Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, Honor" I degree, "" George Zhukov, "medals" For Courage, "" For the Liberation of the Belarusian Republic, "" 50 years of victory, "" 60 years of victory, "etc.
According to him, it will be a hexagonal toll road covered with cement concrete, adapted to a speed of 150 kilometers.
The remuneration is 13.4%, of which 7% of the remuneration is paid by the state as part of the subsidy program and 6.4% is compensated by the farm itself, "he explained.
According to samruk-kazyna, all 229 veterans of the Great Patriotic War living in the capital of Kazakhstan will receive their mobile devices within the next two weeks.
since the beginning of the non-financial support program, 7 thousand entrepreneurs have been covered, including about 2.5 thousand in 2014.
monthly production capacity of the plant is 30 tons of washing powder, 20 liters of detergents and 5 thousand meters of pipes.
The construction industry, deep oil and gas processing is one of the most important tasks for entering development in 30 countries. construction industry and deep oil and gas processing is the most important goal of our program to join the top 30 club .
As Kusainov noted, in 2015, 100 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for lending to SMEs and manufacturing.
It is worth noting that the poultry farm, which has reached full capacity, plans to increase the staff of workers to 350 people.
its capacity will increase to 7 million people a year, - concluded k.alpysbayev.
u. karabalin noted that the volume of gas consumed in the country will reach 10-11 billion cubic meters. m by 2030 up to 18 billion cubic meters. l.
We are proud that Nursultan Nazarbayev voiced the idea of ​ ​ Eurasianism of the countries of the former Soviet Union in 1994 at Moscow State University. moscow state university is proud that in 1994 , nursultan nazarbayev expressed the idea of eurasian integration of former soviet states in moscow state university , " - v.sadovnichy said .
Recall, "Caspian Sea - 2015" - the first competition with the participation of the naval forces of the Caspian countries.
506 villagers received loans for livestock, crops and other types of professions.
over the past five years (from 2009 to 2014), the increase in the number of issued protected documents for intellectual property objects amounted to 61%. during the past five years ( from 2009 to 2014 ) , the overall growth of issued protected documents of intellectual property was 61 % .
The leaders of the two states discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral relations, taking into account the results of the visit of the Czech president to the country in November 2014.
The sphere of social services for children with musculoskeletal disorders is expanding, expenses for these services increased by 11% and amounted to 248.7 million tenge.
Since the beginning of this year, families who received parental rights have been paid a lump sum allowance in the amount of 150 thousand tenge, "said A. Galimova.
As a result, for 11 months, the prosecutor's office examined more than 210 thousand appeals of citizens and legal entities.
This year, the house-building plant will be put into operation, and on December 25, a sulfuric acid plant in the city of Stepnogorsk will be launched by teleconference. this year we have introduced house-building plant , on december 25 the sulfuric acid plant will be started in stepnogorsk .
Recall that legalization began in Kazakhstan on September 1, 2014 and will last until December 31, 2015.
Over 4 years, the amount of funding has increased 2 times in education, science - 2.5 times, health care - 1.5 times.
Within the framework of the working trip of the Head of State to Almaty region, more than 5 thousand residents of the region took part in the event.
In 2014, 7.3 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the construction and reconstruction of 29 projects on water supply and sanitation.
According to the Mangistau Regional Cardiac Surgery Center, in 2013 - 334, in 2014 - 391, and in January of this year - 24 heart operations.
In total, the mobile business support center conducted 85 visits to all district centers, 111 rural districts and settlements.
According to him, currently there are 1812 military-patriotic clubs in Kazakhstan, which cover 62 thousand people.
At the end of 2014, the National Bank's gold and foreign exchange reserves grew by 17% to $28.9 billion, the chairman of the National Bank said.
According to the traffic police department of the regional department of internal affairs, 467 light-mechanical road signs were installed.
According to the project manager, today Kazakhstan has high energy efficiency facilities that save up to 50% on utilities.
The Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in Respect of the Maintenance of Children from Abroad was signed in 1993 in The Hague and ratified by Kazakhstan on 12 March 2010.
15 thousand people will also be involved in the construction of logistics railway facilities, and 45 thousand people will be involved in the construction of planting five-year plan facilities.
Thus, in 2013, compared to 2008, the innovative efficiency of enterprises increased by 2 times, the production of innovative products increased by 5 times.
According to him, Romania includes about 630 thousand members of small and medium-sized businesses.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the domestic gross product is 18%, this is a very low indicator.
we are creating about 100 permanent jobs, 2 more projects of the industrialization map are planned, "said Issekeshev.
In order to promote the economic interests of the two countries, "sario" and "kaznex invest" with the support of the embassies of the Republic of Kazakhstan in March 2015, it is planned to organize a business tour in Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
the majority of oralmans - 21.2% - in the South Kazakhstan region, 16.3% - in the Almaty region, 13% - in the Mangistau region, 9.4% - in the Zhambyl region, 40.1% - in other regions.
The main theme of the celebration of the anniversary events of the 70th anniversary was the military parade, which will be held on May 7 in Astana.
31 cadets were sent to the army of airmobiles, 50 to the regional command "south," 55 to the regional command "east," and 50 cadets to the regional command "west."
The II Regional Women's Forum was held on the eve of International Women's Day - March 8.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the company has been growing roses in the modern greenhouse complex since 2007.
100 thousand liters of oil are produced there every month, and in 2017 the company plans to produce 500 thousand liters of oil per month.
He was awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of the 1st degree, medals "For Courage," "For the Capture of Koenigsberg," "For the Victory over Germany," "Marshal of the Soviet Union K. Zhukov," "60 years of the liberation of Ukraine."
The number of women in regional maslikhats is 13%, urban - 22%, district - 19.6%.
At the suggestion of the Russian side, the next meeting of the working group was proposed to be held in August 2015 in Omsk.
Mikhail Ivanovich began military service in January 1943 and was a foreman of a communications company.
According to the head of the department, more than 600 thousand cattle were registered as part of the "rash" program.
in the next 5 years it is necessary to create at least 4-5 Kazakh brands, "the head of state said.
paid training in Kazakhstan is carried out in March 2013 on the basis of amendments to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Military Service and the Status of Military Personnel."
In 2013, an agreement was signed between the University of Eu and Minzu on the exchange of undergraduates and doctoral students.
credit organizations issued 391 loans in the amount of 1543.4 million tenge, of which 250 in the amount of 349.3 million tenge, credit associations - 141 in the amount of 1194.1 million tenge.
Compared to the same period of 2014, the growth amounted to 20.7 billion tenge, including 13.1 billion tenge to the republican budget, and 7.7 billion tenge to the local budget.
The competition, organized by the French company saint-gobain together with uk "Astana expo-2017," will be attended by student teams from 20 countries.
At the end of 2014, the net profit of private castransoil for white amounted to 57 billion 698 million tenge, which is 11% higher than the results of 2013, "the report said.
for example, overcoming a distance of 5 km for young men - 26 minutes, our guys showed the result in 15 minutes.
Astana under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" provides for the creation of more than 18 thousand new jobs.
Recall that during the year the theater plans to hold 12 concerts dedicated to this significant event.
During the reporting period, the plan of support for industrial enterprises covered 25 enterprises of the metallurgical industry, in mechanical engineering - 20, in the chemical industry - 8, in the construction industry - 10.
more than a thousand complexes and about 17 thousand grain aggregates are involved in the spring sowing campaign, "the report said.
The amount of benefits in turn for children ranged from 10,668 tenge to 16,483 tenge, "the ministry said.
In 2014, the Respect of Colleagues Award was presented to the head of the Department of Radiation Diagnostics, kazmubbu, professor of kairlybek Mukhamedzhanov.
To implement the project, the kaz mia LLP was created, the capacity of the enterprise, according to the founder of the company, will reach 2 thousand tons of processing of the roots of the drug brain.
In addition, to date, 31.8 people receive State special benefits under lists No. 1 and No. 2 in the republic.
The area of ​ ​ the shopping complex was 7 thousand square meters, which includes a hall with 100 seats and a restaurant with 200 seats.
Kazagrotransport financed the purchase of 897 units of agricultural equipment worth 8 billion tenge.
We will learn the results of 2014 in October, according to forecasts, in 2014 energy efficiency will decrease by another 6%, "he said.
According to the results of 2014, scholarships were awarded to 100 figures of literature and art for an outstanding contribution to the development of domestic culture.
A new national human rights action plan for 2020 is expected to be drafted shortly.
the modern autobahn runs from the Chinese border to Russia - 2700 km, and this year we will complete this work.
The Minister noted that at the enlarged government meeting on February 11, the head of state emphasized that the state should comply with all tasks to the people.
Western Europe is the main part of the West Chinese route, that is, 812 km in the territory of the Kyzylorda region.
74 e-government purchases totaling 10.594 billion tenge were conducted by the construction department through a tender.
he recalled the meeting with Nursultan Nazarbayev, which took place in Almaty in 1993.
next week, the committee will begin placing a state order for the provision of a guaranteed amount of free medical care for 2015.
In total, in the next 5 years, Kazakhmys will allocate more than $1.5 billion to modernize production, "he said.
During the second five-year plan, it is planned to attract 100 foreign investors, and this task will grow in the future.
For the first five-year period, the manufacturing sector of the country received 70% of all foreign investments in the economy of Kazakhstan during the years of independence.
loans and leasing with nominal annual interest rate of not more than 14% in tenge and 10% in foreign currency are subject to subsidization.
Also launched 10 projects in the manufacturing industry totaling 17.1 billion tenge.
At the same time, the volume of subsidies in crop production this year in comparison with 2012 increased 1.4 times (72.6 billion tenge), in animal husbandry - 1.5 times (48 billion tenge).
According to Mayor of the capital A. Zhaksybekov, revenues of the city budget increased by 16% and amounted to 164.3 billion tenge.
According to the results of the qualifying rounds, 27 winners will be determined, who will perform at the final stage of the festival on June 15-17 in Alma-Ata.
of them in the Akmola region - 4 divisions participated in the battles for Moscow, Leningrad and Stalingrad.
From autumn 2012, the company's products will be transported by China from Southeast Asian plants to Germany through Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus and Poland.
there is a trend of increasing trade turnover: 2010 - 86.1 million, 2011 - 103.3 million, 2012 - 142 million, 2013 - 163.2 million.
According to the press service of the company, lending to the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, citibank n.a. london branch, deutsche bank ag london branch, mizuho bank ltd. и sumitomo mitsui banking corporation.
The meeting was also attended by representatives of the administration of the "northern" region of the national security committee, military units 2034 and 2098 (with age, families) and executive authorities of the Shemonaikhinsky district.
all schools of the region are computerized, 52% of schools are connected to broadband Internet using adsl technology, Governor's Office of the region reported.
The project for the production of gasoline and diesel fuel from brown coal of Kazakhstan has been implemented by the Institute of Coal Chemistry and Technologies since 2013. the project for the production of gasoline and diesel fuel from brown coal of kazakhstan is implemented by the institute of chemistry , coal and technology since 2013 .
the share of projects introduced as part of the industrialization map in industrial production increased to 35%, "he continued.
for monitoring, the Committee of State Inspection of the Republic of Kazakhstan additionally attracts intermediate interrogators to work on June 437 and rents special equipment.
Earlier, the volume of attracted orders within this action amounted to 250-300 billion tenge, currently this figure is about 700 billion tenge. if earlier under the annual action " state order " we started with 250-300 billion tenge , now the value of the contracts between enterprises of almaty and national companies of " samruk-kazyna " has exceeded 700 billion tenge .
At the same time, it should be noted that the number of citizens employed in these enterprises is more than 70 thousand people. it is necessary to emphasize the fact that there are more than 70 thousand people working in these enterprises .
20 volumes of Altai-Irtysh library series were published in 2012-2013 with the support of Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region.
conditions will be created at the station, allowing 40 ambulance crews to be sent if necessary, "the report said.
According to the results of 2014, an electronic determination of the state of ego pension savings was received more than 4 million times.
Today, more than 25 thousand of them are covered by inclusive education, the rest receive home education, "he said.
According to information, in 2010 there were 12 meat poultry farms in the country, 19 factories are currently operating.
Recall that the first postamat will appear in Almaty in the second half of 2014.
The head of the center Akhmetzhan Mansurov borrowed more than 16 million tenge with a guarantee of 70% and a subsidized interest rate.	the head of the center akhmetzhan mansurov granted a loan to the amount of over 16 million tenge with the 70 % guarantee of the fund and subsidies of the percent rate .	2,59
in the Kazakh market heidelbergcement has been operating since 2005, and today it has two cement plants and 6 launched concrete plants in the cities of Almaty, the capital, aktau.	heidelbergcement has worked in kazakhstan since 2005 and has two cement plants , and 6 plants operating in almaty , astana and aktau .	2,59
Currently, the government is considering increasing this list to 26 countries, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov cited these data at the opening of the XV Kazakhstan international anniversary tourism exhibition "Tourism and Travel" - kitf 2015. "
We will also remind that on May 18, applications for an apartment in the Almaty residential complex "Noble Dream" will begin.
at the same time, 50% of housing is harmonized with young families married with children at least three years old.
Another important thing is that in 2015 kha proposed holding early elections, "he said.
Currently, 10 rural residents work here, and during the season the number of employees increases significantly.
Also, within the framework of the event, the baton "hau - 20 good deeds" will be transferred to the Governor's Office of Astana.
He noted that in 2015 it is planned to bring 14 projects to the project capacity, which will be removed from the industrialization map.
according to his data, state budget revenues can be adjusted with a reduction of 900 billion tenge.
Thus, after 8 months of repair, the golden dream market was reunited with merchants.
energy for life "at the 2015 Milan exhibition.
As part of the uiid program, 68 projects worth 274.4 billion tenge were launched, more than 5600 new jobs were created.
for example, our power plants install modern precipitators that reduce solid waste emissions to the atmosphere by up to 99%, "he added.
The project was sent to 45-foot special containers on which climate control equipment was installed, which recently received a white "ktz express."
The competition was attended by 13 teams consisting of 104 members from Akmola, Almaty, Karaganda, Aktobe, West Kazakhstan regions and cities of the capital and Taldykorgan.
During this time, consultants of the Development Foundation advised 1246 villagers on business and entrepreneurship support.
This was decided at a joint board of customs services of the member states of the customs union, held on December 4, 2014.
In addition, as the Director General noted, in April 2015 it is planned to create a small experimental complex.
According to the legalization of funds by December 20 of the current year 578 million 196 thousand tenge were transferred to savings accounts, "- said in a statement.
According to M. Susainov, the financing of the construction and purchase of the rental apartment "kik" of the white direction amounted to 250 billion tenge.
In the second week, the development is conducting the process of making a military decision on the basis of a combat order received from Kazbrigs 1 and 2.
According to the Mayor's Office, 54.1 million tenge was allocated for the construction of roads, 39.6 million tenge for the maintenance of long sewers, and 70 million tenge for the repair of roads.
24 public associations of Akmola region, which created a group in various nominations, were selected as winners.
By 2020, we plan to increase the volume of cargo on Kazakhstan routes to 10 million tons. we set the task to involve additional 10 million tons of cargo on trans kazakhstan routes by 2020 .
The volume of gross agricultural output in January 2015 amounted to 79.9 billion tenge and increased by 3.3% compared to January 2014.
Under these conditions, trade between the two states exceeded $16 billion.
at the same time, the visit of the Chairman of the People's Council of the Slovak Republic to Kazakhstan in June 2013 contributed to the acceleration of inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries.
As the Head of State noted, the national plan of 100 concrete steps of the state structure will be presented at the first meeting of the national commission.
more than 50 thousand people will take part in the construction of sections of highways central - southern and "western europe - western china" in this region.
about 10 thousand appeals from individuals and legal entities are considered annually, including those received on the helplines and the minister's block.
Today, adb approved 24 billion tenge, Centercredit Bank opened a credit network for the "whites" for 10 billion tenge, "he said.
In addition, according to the akimat, 691 participants of the program will be employed on the projects of the first direction for permanent work.
this year 17 km. heat networks, including 14 km. main, 3 km distribution lines.
In 1999, the Saraychik Khan memorial complex was built on this site again.
Last year alone, local farmers received funds in the amount of 16.5 billion tenge, which is twice as much as in 2013.
According to the agreement reached during a telephone conversation on December 27 last year, an informal meeting of the President of Kazakhstan with the Federal Chancellor of Germany is scheduled for January 9 in Berlin. according to the agreements reached on december 27 during a telephone conversation , on 9 january in berlin it 's planned the informal meeting of the president of kazakhstan with german chancellor angela merkel .
In February-March 2015, 43.7 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the payment of basic pension, the total pension - 151.3 billion tenge.
According to him, for 2015 it is planned to direct 30 billion tenge from the National Fund for the construction of social infrastructure with clarification of target areas.
This year, 487 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 9740 thousand square meters will be built for 78.7 billion tenge. sagintayev.
they solemnly demonstrated the symbolism of the holiday, holding the number "7" in a special system.
Thanks to measures to improve the quality of life, 6,609 military personnel and families are provided with comfortable housing in places of service, the report said.
After that, in 2017, the akimat plans to hold a large-scale celebration of this date, "the report said.
He noted that as part of the fiasco in 2010-2014, 49 projects worth 119.6 billion tenge were implemented in Aktobe, projects provided 5.2 thousand permanent jobs.
The share of small and medium-sized businesses in the country's economy in 2050 should reach 50%, "the congratulation says.
after the launch of this project, the probability of electrification between the south and the north of Kazakhstan reaches 2100 MW (14 billion kW/year). in the terms of this project , the capacity of transmission lines between the north and the south of kazakhstan will reach 2100 mw ( about 14 billion kwh per year ) .
they planted 138 trees (Christmas trees, birches, birches) on the territory of the glory alley, the akimat of Akmola region reported.
In 2014, compared with 2013, the number of minors convicted through juvenile courts decreased by 33%. the number of minors convicted by juvenile courts was decreased by 33 % in 2014 in comparison with 2013 .
According to him, the Strategy "Kazakhstan - 2050" will allow our country to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
Since 2011, along with the National Guard, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan has been operating a program of arming its structures with weapons of intimidation. since 2011 not only the national guard , and the ministry of internal affairs have weapons program of its units .
Last year, more than 226 thousand people took part in the action, about 660 thousand trees and shrubs were planted.
At the same time, compared to 2009, the share of innovative active enterprises increased from 4% to 8%.
In 2013, meat products worth $1.4 million were exported, in 2014 products worth $9 million were exported, and growth was significantly higher. in 2013 , we exported meat products for the amount of 1.4 million dollars and in 2014 to 9 million dollars ; the upward trend is very large .
After the construction and reconstruction of the capital's facilities, it is planned to purchase goods of the capital for 15 billion tenge.
According to him, today the construction of the Borzhak-Ersay railway line is underway, which the head of state took the initiative in October 2014.
At the same time, as the head of the city noted, 800 Almaty teenagers joined the ranks of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan in the spring convocation.
National coordinators exchanged views on the development of the draft Shu Development Strategy until 2025 and the expansion of the organization.
innovative device allows to retain 99 percent of dust with harmful substances in filters.
in addition, 26 thousand agreements are concluded annually with enterprises to attract future college graduates to practice.
the number of trademarks registered by foreign applicants amounted to 52% of the total number of issued protected documents, he added.
As the President said, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is not only representatives of the Assembly and members of associations, it is all 17 million Kazakhstanis. as our president said , the assembly of people of kazakhstan is not only the representatives of the assembly , members of the association , but all 17 million kazakhstani people .
As of April 1, 2015, from the local budget, one-time material assistance was provided to 32.5 thousand veterans in the amount of 1.1 billion tenge. as of april 1 , 2015 the local budgets provided one-time financial assistance to 32.5 thousand veterans in the amount of 1.1 billion tenge .
of which 20 billion tenge will be allocated to support domestic automakers, 10 billion tenge - to the production of helicopters, 5 billion - to the production of passenger cars and 35 billion - to support exporters.
the pilots presented the guests of the military parade, who in the air recorded the number "70" - a symbol of victory.
According to the akimat, currently 18 Catholic organizations and 15 religious institutions are registered in Karaganda region.
Summing up the results of 2014, the Chairman of the Majilis noted that it has become a good and fruitful year for Kazakhstan.
KDB provides the lender with about 25% of the necessary funds for construction and installation work for up to 10 years.
According to him, through the "token" 1 billion tenge was allocated for the purchase of special equipment for the collection of sugar beets to provide state support to farmers.
In January-November 2014, the natural growth of the population of the republic compared to January-November 2013 increased by 11.6 thousand units. the natural population increase of the republic in january-november 2014 compared with january-november 2013 increased by 11.6 thousand persons or 4.9 % to 248.1 ( 236.5 ) thousand people .
The Kazakhstan Pipe Plant Limited Liability Partnership was built in 2005 as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
labor soldiers will last until June 20 of this year, and the grand opening of the third labor semester is scheduled for June 12, 2015.
In addition, during this period 38 Almaty companies recovered losses in the amount of 385.7 million tenge.
For more than 90 years, he has lived in the city where he grew up.
A recent inventory showed that 9 million hectares of land are empty without use, "said the head of state.
According to the Minister, in 2015 from the national budget and the national fund 3 bn 260 mn tenge will be allocated for financing of new oil and gas prospecting works.
In total, 705 people (regional and school coordinators, heads of educational institutions) took part in the seminar.
Today, at the second stage of privatization, more than 70% of objects are in communal ownership, the minister added.
minimum internet connection speed, 256 kbit/s for video distribution.
total consolidated income of the company for the reporting period exceeded 252.5 billion tenge, which is 77% higher than actual income compared to 2013 (142.9 billion tenge). total consolidated revenues of the company exceeded 252.5 billion tenge , it is 77 % higher than actual revenues for 2013 ( 142.9 billion tenge ) .
according to initial design estimates, more than 1 billion cubic meters of gas per year can be produced, "the report said.
the cost of logistics memoranda is $5 million, for the agricultural sector - $2 million. the memorandum was signed in the amount of 5 million dollars in logistics and 2 million dollars in the agricultural sector .
Compared to the same period in 2013, the growth of wool really amounted to 4.1%, "he continued.
regional entities provided 50% of revenues to the state budget, about 40% to the local budget.
According to the director of the center, Nusup Isaev, 8 thousand liters of blood are carried out per year in the institution.
The construction of a new automobile plant will create 12 thousand jobs, which will give a great impetus to the socio-economic potential of the region. 12 thousand workplaces will give large impetus to the region 's social -economic potential .
in the region last year, 130 km of roads of national and local importance were reconstructed and repaired.
During this time, the number of economically active citizens increased by 500 thousand people and reached 9 million people.
According to the results of 2013, the population engaged in physical education increased by 27% in 2014 to 28.9%.
This year, as part of the Uiid state program, 350 people have been employed at the enterprise, who plan to increase production volumes.
The turnover of transport passengers amounted to 1131.4 million pkm, which is 4.4% more than in January-November 2013.
At the same time, the minister added that today 95% of children 6 years old are covered by preschool training.
in honor of the anniversary day, the military put forward the idea of ​ ​ flying into the sky with airplanes depicting the number "70."
In 2014, investments totaling more than 177 billion tenge were invested, and industrial products of manufactured industrial enterprises exceeded 241 billion tenge.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to revise the fund's work plan for 2015, as well as develop special anti-crisis programs.
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
The head of state noted that the company "Total" has been operating in the country since 1993, participates in the implementation of large projects.
The first guests who arrived in the capital on an evening flight on May 5 were WWII veterans.
The parties also discussed the creation of a mission of observers from the Shu participating in the elections of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan of March 2015, 29 and the Republic of Kazakhstan of April 26. in addition , the participants discussed the formation of the sco observer mission during the elections of the president of uzbekistan and kazakhstan , which will be held on 29 march and 26 april 2015 respectively .
today we have more than 3,500 exhibits brought from Russia, Ukraine, the Baltic countries.
Dossayev recalled that in 2014 world prices for oil and iron ores halved.
The fund also introduced a "credit line" system for up to 3 years for the convenience of borrowers.
Every year on June 1, this anniversary holiday is celebrated, which was established in November 1949 by the Paris Congress of the International Democratic Federation of Traitors.
The traditional competition aimed at participating in the development of modern children's literature in the state language was announced on April 2, 2012, that is, on the international day of the children's book. this popular contest began on april 2 , 2012 , the international children 's book day .
In order to improve the quality infrastructure of products, 5 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund to solve the problem associated with the need for a testing base.
in general, foreign currency deposits of our companies account for 7% of all foreign currency deposits in second-tier banks, "said the chairman of the board.
Specialized kindergarten No. 64 was opened in 2012, currently 164 children with musculoskeletal disorders are studying there.
Over the past day, 511 residents of the village of Mustafin, Bukhar-Zhyrau district returned home in the Karaganda region. over the past day 511 villagers of buhar-zhyrau district returned to their homes .
As it became known, at the XVI Party Congress, held on March 11 of this year, the head of state announced five institutional reforms.
the power of the station is 45 MW, the total capacity can reach 300 MW, "the report said.
At the end of the event, 88 delegates from Almaty were elected to the XVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party, which will be held on March 11 this year in Astana.
in addition, the infrastructure of the facility includes two cinema halls with 100 and 150 seats, a universal computer hall, cafes and complexes for artists.
During the years of the program, 77 facilities were built for a total of 115.1 billion tenge, about 4.9 thousand permanent jobs were created.
In total, 6 thousand tons of fuel were allocated for the sowing campaign, as well as representatives of the economic industry of the districts received 34 thousand tons of fertilizers at preferential prices.
The volume of investments in energy from 2012 to 2030 is estimated at the level of at least 9.5 trillion tenge. the volume of investments in the electricity in the period from 2012 to 2030 is estimated at least 9.5 trillion tenge .
He noted that the treatment of an early recognized disease will cost the Kazakh budget 200 times easier.
Reconstruction and modernization of three domestic mills is planned to be completed by the end of 2016.
Secretary of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation since January 2012.
Recall that in Kazakhstan, on the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, early presidential elections were held on April 26, 2015.
It should be noted that the world economy includes 6,048 types of goods, including 4,819 types of industry, 4,651 types of manufacturing.
At the second stage of certification, which will be held from June 1 to November 1, 2015, the remaining officers will be certified.
the crisis began, which will continue in 2016, which is an issue of the international level of our leader. crisis has started , it will continue in 2016 and it will be an issue of the international authority of our leader .
Today, 2015 can be called another historical period, as a global change in the state of political, economic relations. today 2015 can be regarded as the beginning of the next period of history , as the stage of changes in the global situation of political and economic relations .
we met a number of goals for the development of the steam millennium, Kazakhstan reduced the poverty level by 20 times, reducing it from 60% to 2.9%.	kazakhstan has reduced poverty by 20 times , from 60 % to 2.9 % .	2,65
In addition, 21 projects worth 17 billion tenge will be completed, the report said.
In general, more than 11 thousand people will work at all these facilities, the head of state said.
As planned, when switching all projects to design capacity, tax revenues from them to the budget will amount to 5 billion tenge.
- We have been working together for more than 15 years, over the years Kazakhstan's relations with Russia have strengthened.
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
Currently, according to the head of the department, there are 350 thousand tons of diesel fuel and 250 thousand tons of gasoline of 92 brands in all warehouses of the country.
In addition, in 2014, thanks to automated street lighting, electricity consumption decreased by 2.5 million tenge, to 31 million tenge per year.
I am sure that in 2050, according to the program approved by the Government of Kazakhstan, you will enter 30 countries of the world, "said the deputy of the European Parliament.
today we have 14 thousand kilometers of the gas pipeline, and in the future we plan to bring this figure to 30 thousand, "the vice minister said.
administrative and support services; information and communication services account for an average of 4%.
last year alone, 15.7 billion tenge was paid, which is 1.6 times more than in 2013.
In 2012, our company switched to the construction of a meat cluster, which includes large nutritional sites, a reproductive, and a meat processing complex. in 2012 our company started construction of meat cluster in aktobe region , which includes feedlots , loudspeaker , feed factory and meat processing complex .
Firstly, according to A. Bizhanov, the 2015 presidential election was a historic event in the life of our state, where for the first time in the history of our country, citizens voted the most.
employment of technical and vocational education graduates increased from 56% in 2013 to 62.8% in 2014.
The share of domestic producers in ensuring the work of the cluster today is 35%.
Aktogay district of Karaganda region implemented a project to extract 2 million tons of ore per year.
During the reporting period, 426 million tons of ore mined in Kyrgyzstan were mined, including 4.6 thousand tons.
more than 10% of the population are tested annually and more than 2 million tests aimed at detecting HIV infection are carried out.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 243 objects are scheduled for sale.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 244 objects are scheduled for sale.
In total, 34 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015.
these measures led to a 10-fold reduction in initiative appeals of entrepreneurs in 2014 compared to 2010.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the Aktobe Region, in November 1943, at the age of 17, he was drafted into the Red Army.
Recall that about 90 thousand people from political, expert and business circles of 3 countries of the world take part in the VIII Astana Economic Forum.
According to the Governor's Office, since 2008 Almaty together with JSC Samruk-kazyna has been conducting a "state order" campaign.
Electricity consumption in 2030 will develop at a special rate and will amount to 130 billion qut of hours per year. the consumption of electricity will progress and by 2030 it will amount about 130 billion kilowatt per year .
In my opinion, the number of citizens who came to the vote this time is at least 90% of voters.
The draft dual map includes 8 adapted organizations, for which 390 people must master 9 specialties. 8 companies of vet are included in a draft dual card , 390 students in 9 specialties will participate in it .
per capita in 2015 - 12.8 thousand dollars, in 2019 will increase to 17.6 thousand dollars.
to do this, enter the state number of your transport in the terminal "cash desk 24" and invest the necessary amount in it.
It is worth noting that 28 projects worth 531 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map in the city, of which 20 were implemented.
From 2010 to 2020, about a thousand Afghan citizens will study at Kazakhstani universities.
Subsidies will be carried out on projects commissioned on January 1, 2014, "the report said.
In 2020, cargo through the countries and Kazakhstan participating in the Ashgabat agreement can be brought up to 40 million tons per year.
To date, 949 residential buildings for 15 apartments have been commissioned, the total area of ​ ​ which is 59 thousand square meters.
It is planned that in 2015 at least 1000 pieces of equipment worth about 10.5 billion tenge will be presented as part of horizontal field work.
Republican, regional and retreat training seminars of this content have been held regularly in all regions of the country since 2012.
According to him, over the year, more than 3 million SMS messages and emails were sent to participants in the trial.
The volume of loans for 2011 amounted to 677 million tenge, in 2012 - 5 billion, in 2014 - 23 billion, as of February 1, 2015 - 38.9 billion tenge. the amount of allocated loans in 2011 amounted to 677 million in 2012 - 5 billion , in 2014 - 23 billion , on february 1 , 2015 - 38.9 billion tenge .
that is, if in 2011 there were 140 graduates of residents, then in 2014 - 611, in 2015 more than 700 specialists are expected to arrive in the industry.
in total, 4 million heads, 15 million heads, 2 million horses and camels will be planted on 60 million hectares of pasture land.
Thus, as of January 1, 2015, 30,728 permits for attracting foreign labor are valid in the country.
It is worth noting that the first diagnostic center in the center of Kazakhstan opened in March 2010 in the "Republican Diagnostic Center."
The Ambassador noted that in the framework of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan over the past 5 years, 750 enterprises have been launched and 75 thousand jobs have been created.
in addition, a second box was opened with ballots of 11 people who voted in their homes.
In general, according to the Vice Minister, in 2014 the private business sold 800 tons of fish in the domestic market.
this project consists of a 140 line of short documentaries in Kazakh and Russian and the duration of each is 7-8 minutes.
each player, in the classics - 1 hours 30 minutes, and in a quick game - 7 minutes.
He noted that construction work amounted to 13.1 million tenge, which is 108.9% more than in 2013.
Since March 1945, he began preparations for the victory parade on Red Square.
In addition, military personnel 68665 a/b of the capital congratulated mothers on the upcoming March 8.
660 heads of breeding cattle were seized from the plant from Hungary, dairy products are processed.
70 aviation units of equipment that are part of the country's air force will also perform.
It is noted that there is a free zone, which is served 24 hours a day.
In the sowing season, 600 tons of potato seeds were preserved, the general farm was prepared for the season.
Kazakhstan plans to increase freight traffic through China to 18 million tons by 2020.	it is expected the total volume of through transportation via kazakhstan to china will reach 18 million tons by 2020 .	2,67
Now the installation of equipment has begun, according to the plan of this year it is planned to build another 200 km of the line for 500 kw.
Of these, exports decreased by 6.7% from 73 billion 269 million dollars, imports decreased by 15.6% from 37 billion 319 million dollars, "said the chairman of the committee.
In March 2015, our subsidiaries purchased the first 77 apartments with an area of ​ ​ about 1357 thousand square meters.
as part of the second wave of privatization, the joint-stock company Samruk-kazyna plans to sell 106 assets.
in general, 154 large and small projects worth 9.3 billion tenge were implemented in the region for the development of the agro-industrial complex. in east kazakhstan 154 large and small projects on development of agrarian complex ( ac ) are implemented for the total amount 9,3 billion tenge .
Note that the event will be held from January 26 to 30, 2015.
The current enterprises of the industrial park of the capital since 2010 produced products worth 328.1 billion tenge, including 119.3 billion tenge spent in 2014.
If you pay attention to important circumstances, the gross regional product of Almaty for the first time in the history of the city reached 8 trillion tenge, which is 6.3% of the growth. for nine months of the year it amounted 8 percent .
in addition, agreements have been concluded with 7 companies in other sectors of the economy for the supply of metal parts.
Kabdualiev kasenbay Kabdualievich was born on October 24, 1924 in the village of Uzen (now the Stalin district of the Akmola region).
In addition, more than 326 people are employed in social facilities, 686 people are sent to youth practice.
together with local authorities, we provided 82 apartments to veterans of the Great Patriotic War from January to April of this year. from january to april we are working with local executive body ( leb ) that provided about 82 apartments for war veterans .
transportation from the Chongqing settlement on a dry route to the European duisburg is carried out for 16 days.
In 2014, 62.5 million tons of oil were exported, the largest buyers were in Europe (Italy - 25%, the Netherlands - 13%, France - 9%, Austria - 7%) and the People's Republic of China - 17%.
Decision No. 57/112 of 15 December 2005 of the Central Election Commission on the approval of a model certificate for the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was declared invalid.
38% billion dollars will be allocated for the development of the offshore field with the creation of 20 thousand jobs, the head of state said.
in the structure of investments, the company's own funds make up 52.4%, budget funds - 18%, loans and other borrowed funds - 29.6%.
5 historical objects of Zhambyl region entered the Tien Shan corridor - this is Aktobe, Kulan, Kostobe, pattern and Belukh.
According to the Governor of the region, the expected indicator of gross output in the uterus by the end of the year will be 240 billion tenge.
for example, the planned work on the "sypaga" program was carried out 1.5 times, within the framework of the "kulan" program - 2 times.
now there are 5 people who sell goods to the population at affordable prices.
Since January 1, 2015, the eaeo site has been the official publisher of the union's regulatory documents.
currently there are 14% of specialists involved in these lycées.
In addition, as noted in the school, in 2008 the number of emergency stations decreased from 131 to 39 in 2013.
I instruct to allocate an additional 300 million tenge for the implementation of all the works indicated in it, "he said.
Last year, more than 62 billion tenge was allocated for health care of the city, taking into account the republican budget, that is, growth amounted to 10%, 99.9% of the funds were spent.
at the same time, it is expected to receive 250 million tenge as a loan, if the company's own funds amount to 50 million tenge.
On November 11, 2014, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev at an expanded meeting of the political council of the Nұr Otan party announced a new economic policy "Nұr zhol - the way to the future."
It should be noted that from January 1, 2015, pension payments increased by 9%, basic pensions - by 7%.
The new kindergarten "Erkem-ai" with 140 places.
It is worth noting that in Kokshetau there are 20 commodity producers whose goods have become favorite for the population.
In 2017, world organizations will be represented in the capital, this time much attention is paid to youth. in 2017 astana will meet all the international community and i understand that young people play a special role .
This year, the sown area in the Shcherbakty district will be 164.9 thousand hectares, which is 29.4 thousand hectares more than in 2014.
According to him, in 2014, courts of first instance satisfied only 41% of appeals by state bodies and legal entities.
in addition, the cost of financing the program from the own funds of national companies and development institutions is 240 billion tenge.
According to the World Health Organization, the global incidence of eye diseases is 285 million, 39 million of whom are blind.
people of working age - 4768, people of retirement age - 395 people, "the report said.
we were able to reduce the unemployment rate to 5% and collect wage debts from a number of debt companies. we managed to reduce the unemployment rate by 5 % and to recover unpaid wages from a number of unscrupulous companies .
The processing of agricultural products in the region accounts for 46% of the industrial production of the region and 61% of the manufacturing industry of the region.
As part of the project, 130 thematic receptions were held in the party's branches, and about 180 thousand families were advised.
Thirdly, according to the chairman of the committee, a feature of the 2015 elections was the special activity of young people.
in the West Kazakhstan region all conditions have been created for the preservation and further development of the national culture of 90 ethnic groups. west kazakhstan region has all conditions for the preservation and development of culture , customs and traditions of all 90 ethnic groups living in our region .
And since 2008, 56.5 thousand hectares of forest land have been planted on the territory of the dried-up bottom of the island.
the largest subsidiary of the Қazaқstan temir zholy fund plans to start selling a white 35 object.
these two lines are part of the 500 sq northeast-south transit, which began to be implemented in 2014.
At the same time, the economic policy of 2015 in Kazakhstan will be aimed at preventing the influence of external factors by forming reserves of new plants, "he said.
Trade turnover between Almaty and Germany is 1 billion 210 million US dollars, which is 55% of trade turnover with our country, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
bakery produces 3 tons of bread and sweet bread per day.
In March of this year, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted a resolution "On the approval of the Unified Program for Business Support and Development" Business Roadmap 2020. "
It is assumed that in 2017, guests of the exhibition will be able to enjoy apples grown in the Expo Garden.
According to archival data, about one and a half million Kazakhstanis went to the front in 1941.
because 70 years ago it was in this city that many veterans met a great victory.
Kazatomprom will also allocate 2 billion tenge for the maintenance of these facilities in 2015-2016, "the report said.
In 2015, it is expected to open business service centers in each region of the region.
So, on March 29, Air Astana airline performed its first direct flight in the direction of the capital - Paris on the Boeing 757 aircraft.
In the final race, the score was 5:5, the last score went to Sharakbaev, reports Akmola Media Center.
According to the expert, according to WTO forecasts, the volume of world trade will grow by 3% in 2014, by 3.3% in 2015 and by 4% in 2016.
This year, 20 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget, an additional 46 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget, in accordance with the plan, a new bridge was put into operation.
According to the results of 11 months of 2014, gross agricultural output in Akmola region amounted to 232.5 billion tenge. in agriculture , the gross output amounted to 232.5 billion tenge for 11 months in 2014 .
cash multiplier increased from 3.75 at the end of December 2014 to 3.99 at the end of January 2015.
A feature of the meeting held in 2015 is close cooperation with the National University of Defense, which moved to the capital in 2014.
He was awarded the orders of the Patriotic War of the 2nd degree, 2 "Honorary Titles," medals "For Victory in Germany," "For Outstanding Services," "For Valiant Labor."
the prevalence of epilepsy is 1% of the population, while around the world 65 million people are sick with the disease. the prevalence rate of epilepsy is 1 % of the population - more than 65 people in the world suffer from this disease .
According to him, 29 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund for the implementation of the project "Reconstruction of the international airport of the capital," including 60.7 billion tenge.
In accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 153 observers from two foreign states and two international organizations on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
150 countries have signed a convention to protect the rights of citizens with disabilities.
and the experience of drip irrigation reduces this figure to 53 liters, "he said.
including: industry - 468, trade - 1237, transport and communications - 335, education and health - 936, construction and utilities - 993 and 1777 - other industries.
To date, Kazakhstan has 37 donor hospitals receiving organs, 9 transplant centers with lysence for transplantation operations.
According to the department, on January 15, 2015, the Victory Flag will be officially transferred to the Young Guard Republican School.
The festival was attended by representatives of 5 universities and 12 organizations of technical and professional education.
According to the results of the competition, 9 winners were selected, each of which will receive 700,000 tenge in support.
as part of this project, 25 concerts were held in all the largest cities of the country with the participation of classical art stars.
The third place among the best weightlifters of 2014 was taken by a Chinese athlete.
In turn, Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin took the baton of "20 good deeds" within the framework of kha.
in general, in the Kyzylorda region, the problem of emergency schools will be eliminated before 2016.
According to the information distributed in this direction, 226 agreements worth 282 billion tenge were concluded to fulfill the requirements specified in the memoranda.
The event was organized in 2014 thanks to a mass race in the Schuchin-Bora resort zone. this event was held thanks to the charitable mileage in shuchinsk-borovsky resort area in august 2014 .
Following the results of modernization in 2017, we will fully cover ourselves with petroleum products. as the result of the modernization , it is planned to provide own light oil by the end of 2017 .
5,793 jobs have been created in industrial zones of districts and cities, 43 investment projects worth 38.9 billion tenge are being implemented.
As you know, in 1991, the Nazarbayevskip received 98% of the vote, this is evidenced today.
As A.Tashmetov noted, in 2014, the issue of providing potential support to athletes was put at a special level.
The analysis of applications for the second half of 2014 revealed 5 relevant groups of population problems in the top 5:
Then the company will be able to switch to full capacity and produce 30 million eggs per year, "the report said.
As part of the first tranche, large projects are being implemented in 23 areas of the processing industry in the amount of 50 billion tenge. for the first tranche , 50 billion are allocated for the implementation of major new projects , 23 projects are being implemented in manufacturing spheres ( food , clothing , paper products , pharmaceuticals , etc . ) .
6450 people were involved in flood control measures, 1736 units of equipment, 131 drainage devices, 115 swimming aids were involved.
The company includes 10 mines and 5 mining and processing plants, 2 copper smelters and 2 coal departments.
our products were well exported to China, in 2015, Chinese partners adhered to a more conservative course, "he said.
1) regulations on state prizes of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology named after al-farab and in the field of literature and art;
the complex accommodates 60 modules, a standard stadium, 600 spectator stands, refereeing cabins.
It is worth noting that the event was held for the second time, the first took place in August 2013 and collected 11.5 million tenge.
The first deputy chairman noted that in fact about 70% of the party's obligations on the election platform were fulfilled.
The educational institution was built in 2009, currently it has 261 students.
If we take into account that in 2013 the volume of exports amounted to about 300 tons, then this can be called for the first time.
among them, a separate place of the program "Employment Road Map - 2020."
Recall, on February 11, 2015, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state proposed to start the action "Made in Kazakhstan."
Recall that farmers must fulfill their obligations by supplying wheat by November 1, 2015.
On the same day, in the village of Neftyanik, Karakiyansky district, 24 families were handed the keys to new apartments.
their share in the volume of industry of the region is 13% (on average in Kazakhstan - 7.9%), manufacturing industry - 27.8% (on average in Kazakhstan - 12.9%).
In addition, as the population increases, a 600-seat school is being built in the village of Akai.
On November 18, 2014, the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Spain, with the support of the international news agency efe, officially presented the film "Forgotten in Karaganda."
The basis for this will be 77 objects introduced as part of the industrialization map during the first five-year plan.
the company's share in the Ekibastuz coal basin is 60%, the share in the country is 40%.
As of January 1 of this year, the number of cattle amounted to 45 thousand, horses - 26 thousand.
now 800 treaties are in operation, another 800 are planned to be implemented according to the Australian method.
In 2014, Aktobe carried out major repairs on 20 streets with a total value of 1.9 billion tenge.
Now we plan to allocate 20 billion tenge for existing projects, "said Sergey Shaizhunusov.
The price per barrel of wti crude oil on Tuesday fell to $50 for the first time since April 2009.
In 1942, he entered 431 Batumi coastal batteries in the area of ​ ​ defense of the Caucasus Sea.
in Kostanay, Sarykol, Altynsarin, Auliekol, Taran districts and the city of Arkalyk, the construction of 7 rural medical outpatient clinics was completed.
From January to February of this year, the volume of industrial production reached 263 million tenge, "he said.
As you know, on March 11, 2015, the next XVI Congress of the Nur Otan Party will be held.
today the company is a white subsidiary of Volkovgeology, its specific participation in the company's capital is 49% and Trubmashholding LLP is 51%.
382 workshops, round tables, briefings, conferences on the delivery of public services to recipients.
today we have from 2.5 thousand to 3 thousand objects of small and medium-sized enterprises that can compete in foreign markets.
With significant funds, 520 facilities in the villages will be repaired and the construction of 30 rural outpatient clinics will continue.
Recall that in the lobby of the karlo feliche theater there is a photo exposition dedicated to expo 2017.
Residents of the region in national clothes came to the event, organized as part of the republican action "20 good deeds."
At the first qualifying stage from December 1 to 25, 2014, 12,418 online tests were conducted in 10 categories.
On April 16, the Astana Opera State Opera and Ballet Theater will host a charity concert of Nazarbayev's dariga for WWII veterans.
Recall that at the end of March, the National Bank of Kazakhstan issued commemorative coins "70 years of great victory" in denominations of 500 and 50 tenge.
A project to create a reproductive economy for 300 cattle is also being implemented.
According to the Governor's Office, the joint-stock company Varvarinskoye allocated 35 million tenge for the implementation of social projects.
As it became known, 428 billion tenge will be allocated for the implementation of this program for the next three years, including 176 billion tenge for 2015.
In July 1941, he participated in his first battle with the Nazi invaders as part of 518 anti-aircraft regiments.
in addition, work has begun on the overhaul of whitewash roads, fort-shevchenko - up to 43 km of whitewash-kalamkas and whitewash-kalamkas.
The number of people employed in small and medium-sized businesses is 112 thousand people - this is a third of the economically active population of the region.
From 2016 to 2020, benefits in the amount of 1 billion 800 million tenge are provided, "said Yerlan Nysanbayev at a briefing.
we want to continue, together with the head of state, to move Kazakhstan towards the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world. we would like together with the head of state of kazakhstan to promote the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world .
among the program participants 27 thousand people - low-income, 7.5 thousand people - graduated from educational institutions, 5.6 thousand people - people with disabilities, 396 people - oralmans.
the group of companies will create a single center for information technologies and save up to 70 million tenge.
During the implementation of the third direction, 200 people will be trained in a new specialty and will increase their qualifications.
By ratifying the charter of the international organization on March 22, 2013, Kazakhstan is a full member of Irena.
This year, funds in the amount of 19 million tenge are provided for this event from the local budget, it is planned to temporarily employ 400 young people.
Export of dairy products increased to 6%, 1.6 times - sour milk products.
Also, as the president noted, it is necessary to attract 10 transnational companies to the manufacturing industry.
35 cars took part in the rally, all of them are decorated with the flag of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the flag of the eternal country. "
to date, 40% of the officers of the leadership of the regional command "have completed certification.
In 2014, the number of projects under the Business Roadmap increased 1.8 times and the amount of financed loans amounted to 4.4 billion tenge.
Currently, we are doing and doing "our work," that is, a stadium with a capacity of 12 thousand people will be built in Almaty.
According to the Mayor's Office, the school was opened in 1960 and has not undergone major repairs since then.
As part of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, lenders will create about 120 new jobs.
According to annual statistical reviews of world energy, Kazakhstan's natural gas reserves will reach 83 years.
The head of the Polish ethnocultural association V. Tsykunova spoke about the work done in 2014 and plans for the coming year.
210 people are provided with permanent jobs at the plant and special hostels for workers are provided.
It is planned to launch 6 projects worth 29.1 billion tenge by the end of the year, the akim said.
also students got acquainted with a white machine gun - 74 and a Makarov pistol.
in the village, a functioning school is designed for 320 places, and the number of students in it is 875.
in Komapnia, 20 types of dairy products of 5 brands are produced: "kulikovo village," phytoline "vanilla sky," "storm in a glass," "ice ice baby."
The Ambassador said that Kazakhstan is a multinational state, where more than 130 nationalities and ethnic groups live in peace and harmony.
Born on September 15, 1921 in the village of Koshkarbay, Zerendinsky district.
the production capacity of the factory, equipped with modern German equipment, is 22 thousand tons of confectionery products per year.
In general, over the years, thanks to the policy of the head of state, it was possible to collect reserves of stability, this is the country's gold fund for $100 billion. we have managed to accumulate a considerable margin , more than 100 billion dollars of foreign exchange reserves of the country in recent years , thanks to the policy of the head of state .
According to article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state submitted to the Majilis of Parliament the candidacy of Karim Massimov for the post of prime minister.
because training in technical specialties costs at least 3 times more, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
On March 2, surgabayev submitted an application to the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the nomination of his candidacy in self-nomination. on 2 march syrgabayev askar zhorabayevich presented the application of his candidacy in the way of self-nomination to the central election commission of the republic of kazakhstan .
It is worth noting that the world economy has 615 sectors, of which 262 are the entire industry, 230 processing enterprises.
As noted in the report, users of the automated bicycle rental system "astana abike" in 2014 amounted to 577 people.
this payment is provided to citizens who worked in the rear during the Great Patriotic War - from June 22, 1941 to May 9, 1945.
It is worth noting that Abk Target LLP created 268 jobs in the labor market.
To date, 1,469 women have received these resources, "said L. Bragimov.
On April 21, the symbol of a charity event will return to the capital and will be installed in the palace of peace and harmony. on april 21 baton 's symbol taykazan filled with good deeds will return to astana and will be installed in the palace of peace and harmony .
As it became known, on February 19, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov, the main ministries were given a number of instructions.
According to him, the head of state instructed representatives of the ministry to introduce a health insurance system in Kazakhstan from January 1, 2017.
According to the Ministry of National Economy, the short-term economic indicator in January-February 2015 amounted to 101.9% by January-February 2014.
Born on February 6, 1952 in the village of Mainzek Telmanovsky district of the Karaganda region.
Gin growth in 2015 was estimated at 1.5%, which is 3.3 percentage points low. gdp growth is estimated at 1.5 % in 2015 , that is on 3.3 percentage points below than previously projected level .
95% of human happiness depends on health, so you need to preserve this wealth and play sports.
According to the Governor of the region, in 2014, 693 entities received free services in the field of entrepreneurship.
At the moment, Zf receives milk from the first batch of 200 cattle imported in December 2013.
He noted that 32% of the city budget is directed to education, 33% - to utilities, 23% - to construction.
yesterday at a government meeting, a draft tariff policy in the field of natural monopolies until 2020 was considered and approved. yesterday , at the government sitting the draft program on the tariff policy in the sphere of natural monopolies until 2020 was considered and approved .
in mechanical engineering there are also positive growth indicators (109%), the construction industry (129.7%), metallurgy (118.5%), oil refining (106.6%).
3 . The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to take the necessary measures for the organizational, logistical and financial support of the early presidential elections.
Within the framework of this program, only women entrepreneurs will be funded for $10 million during the year, "L. Ibragimova assured.
It is reported that 566 applications for 500 projects worth 182 million 206 thousand tenge were submitted to receive microcredit through a credit partnership.
It is expected to adjust the administrative expenses of Kazagro ubx by 200 million tenge or by 12%, "S. Plotnikov said.
Since 2005, as part of the exchange of experience, instructors of the armed forces of Kazakhstan have trained 572 cadets of the Iraqi military academy in sapper business.
On Riga Street, work has begun on the construction of the second floor of a 200-seat kindergarten under construction. The construction of the second floor has already started in a kindergarten for 200 places on rizhskaya street.
In 2010, of these, 34 projects were created, in which about 2 thousand were created. Permanent jobs, "the minister said.
Currently, the Provatslav population of the country accounts for about 30% of the population of Kazakhstan.
In January-December 2014, the growth of gross agricultural output (services) was observed in 11 regions of the region.
Only in April, 7 countries participate in presidential elections at various levels, parliament and their national chambers.
It is planned to allocate 150,000 thousand tenge for housing to some citizens in categories and 265,862 thousand tenge for the construction of housing for young families.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations by the Central Election Commission will be carried out until April 20, 2015.
According to him, the ministry proposes to include this work in the preparatory class, since 95% of children attend there.
the average amount of state social allowance for this period for disability is 22,487 tenge, for the loss of the breadwinner - 20,222 tenge, for age - 11,110 tenge.
In general, the coalition unites the 30 best green practices of Kazakhstan.
The leadership of the region started the construction of a school for 100 places in the village of Kyzylagash in the amount of 367 million tenge at the expense of the local budget.
is part of 191 countries around the world; and associate members of 4 organizations.
The conference, consisting of two sessions, read out 17 scientific reports by famous historians, lawyers, philologists, researchers and writers.
He noted that about 3 billion tenge was allocated to equip medical institutions with the necessary equipment.
He also noted that the second five-year plan of industrialization mainly focuses on the development of 14 priority sectors.
In addition, in all districts and cities of the region 1,200 hectares of land were allocated for the construction of industrial zones.
The Deputy Minister also noted that in the next five years the value of this market will reach $14 billion.
These concepts, in accordance with the agreement, should be approved by the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council before January 1, 2016.
- "Register of the examination of patients in the polyclinic (outpatient clinic), dispensary, consultation and at home" form 039/y;
In October 1997, by a resolution of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev, the law "On unification into a decree of the international civil defense organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan" (akhu) was put into effect.
The author of this technology is ready to produce 190 thousand cubic meters per year, which in turn is 10% of this market.
Sabyrgali Kusenovich was born in the West Kazakhstan region, from where in 1939 he was drafted into the Soviet army.
Trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Romania from January to October 2014 amounted to $2.76 billion.
Along Almaty Street, a place for a kindergarten building with 280 seats is fenced.
Also, to provide the state program with qualified specialists, 24 scientific laboratories will be created on the basis of 10 domestic universities.
Within the second direction 224 participants will receive loans totaling KZT671.3 m.
of these, 60% are unemployed, 30% are self-employed, 9% are low-income.
of these, registered trademarks of national applicants showed 48%, "B. imashev said.
thus, the share of local collateral in procurement will increase from 50% in 2010 to 75% in 2014.
as a result of the work carried out, the number of people employed by gas increased and amounted to 83% of the population of the region (679.6 thousand people).
Recall that Development Bank of Kazakhstan JSC is one of 35 problem projects transferred to the investment fund.
During the conversation, the governor also praised the progress of Kazakhstan's preparation for the international exhibition "expo-2017," which involves the construction of large projects.
Here it must be clearly understood that 80% of the funds were spent on infrastructure, ank and other areas.
During World War II, 7032 people were sent from the Baidibek district of the South Kazakhstan region. during the second world war 7032 villagers from baydibek district of south kazakhstan region went to the front .
Including within the framework of the business forum, documents were signed on 19 projects worth more than $800 million.
This amount includes a budget loan to the holding in the amount of 60 billion tenge in accordance with the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for spring-field and autumn harvesting.
Following the meeting, the deputy akim gave a number of instructions to organize the selection in 2015.
After an external examination of 7 projects, we began to implement in the primary technology park. "
On behalf of the Head of State N.Nazarbayev akim of West Kazakhstan region Nogaev awarded veterans the medal "70 Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945."
It is necessary to convey to the population that 40% of oncological diseases can be defeated by conducting a healthy lifestyle. it 's necessary to inform the population , that 40 % of cancers can be prevented by the healthy lifestyle .
the number of employed citizens reached 700 thousand people and amounted to 8.5 million people, "he said.
Therefore, we ask you to support the initiative to hold presidential elections in 2015, "the letter says.
According to him, for 9 months of 2014 the volume of gross output of the region grew by 2.9% and amounted to 542.5 billion tenge.
The exhibition consists of 4 sections and books on anniversary topics from the national academic library fund are exhibited on the shelves.
The Silk Road program is a platform for interaction between 31 WTO member states, "the statement said.
at the expense of the regional budget, the construction of a secondary school for 150 places in the village of Pertsev in the city of Rudny began.
In 2015, it is planned to build a water supply system in the village of Control.
he was 42 years old when he combined scientific and pedagogical activities and served as a doctor.
According to him, within 2 years, reports, expert materials, and reviews will be collected on this platform.
to date, our results are significant, these are 800 children who did not get into the orphans' house, "said B. Kenzhebolatov.
The basic pension is 11 thousand 182 tenge, the average pension, taking into account the basic pension payments - 50 thousand 725 tenge.
in summer, that is, when the maximum level of construction work is reached, the number of builders can increase by 20%.
14 groups, of which 2 are for children with corrective, mental development.
of which $29.8 billion is the reserves of the national bank, $70 billion is the funds of the national fund, "he said.
N. Kapparov noted that Kazakhstan currently provides 40% of the world's uranium production.
The competition was attended by pupils of 12 military-patriotic and military-sports clubs of secondary schools in Aktobe.
According to preliminary data, in 2014 this figure amounted to 100 per 94.0 thousand people (in 2013 - 99.49).
As the head of the movement noted, 86% of supermarkets continue to inform consumers about domestic goods.
At the same time, in 2014, 34 thousand square meters of rental housing were provided at the expense of budget funds.
In 2014, the services industry made a big contribution to the growth of wool, where the growth was 6%. "
in particular, 390 million tenge will be allocated for the modernization of the site from the aksha village to the shore of the alakol.
According to the director of Pobeda LLC Alexander Polyakov, this year the sown area of ​ ​ the farm will be about 33 thousand hectares.
More than 30 million tenge was spent on paying interest to banks of the second level of entrepreneurs. more than 30 million tenge paid for repayment of interest of second tier banks .
The competitiveness of Kazakhstan's business in the foreign market will also increase, as 45% of cargo is export, "he said.
Recall, on February 20, 2015, the head of state signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the Concept for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities."
According to the protocol signed on May 29, 2014, the implementation period of which will be extended by the current agreement until January 1, 2019.
The design capacity of central asia gold production is 500 kg per year. construction of a plant for the production of precious metals, aimed at the production of dore alloy.
27 construction projects were presented and considered on the agenda of the council meeting.
Thus, in 2014, 30% of the total number of graduates enrolled in INU study under the grant.
3 objects worth 110.1 million tenge were legalized, "the agency said.
According to the results of 2014, there will be more than 900 billion tenge, that is, the indicator has been more than doubled.
In October last year, the capital's team of 57 students took part in the republican competition of scientific projects in Almaty.
the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves reached $102 billion, including the national fund grew to $73 billion.
Recall that the funds received are planned to be returned to the National Fund in 2024.
So, due to public-private partnership, 8 kindergartens for 920 places have been opened, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
In total, there are 11 medals of the World Cup in the piggy bank of the athlete from Kazakhstan, of which 1 is gold, 5 are silver and 5 more are bronze.
301 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund for 2015-2016 as part of the "Nұrly zhol."
In 2015, 20 billion tenge was allocated to support the oath at the expense of the National Fund, which will replenish the funds allocated from the republican budget, "said M. Susainov.
expenses of enterprises on technical innovations increased by 7 times (from 61.0 to 431.9 billion tenge). in 7 times the costs of enterprises on technological innovation increased from 61.0 to 431.9 billion tenge .
previously, the specialist needed 10 documents to obtain a certificate of category assignment.
Thus, to date, 43 billion tenge of the national fund has been spent, including 23 billion tenge through the budget, and 20 billion tenge through Baiterek.
of which 1 million 164 thousand square meters. m - these are private apartments, 836 thousand square meters. m - apartment buildings. 1 million 164 thousand square meters are for individual housing and 836 thousand square meters for apartment buildings .
Recall, on December 25, 2014, a special prize of the Head of State "Golden Quality" was awarded in the capital.
funds allocated under the "Nұrly zhol" program and 1 trillion tenge from the National Fund.
In 2014, at the expense of the regional budget, the construction of thirteen schools began, six of which were put into operation.
During the meeting, it was agreed that this year beeline Kazakhstan will launch a free Internet system on 100 public transport of the capital.
in the military unit 44793, subordinate to the "eastern" regional command in the Semipalatinsk garrison, this good tradition was supported.
The production of liquid hydrocarbons in 2014 amounted to 11 million tons, gas - 17 billion cubic meters, 105% of the plan was increased. liquids production in 2014 amounted to 11 million tons , gas production - to 17 billion cubic meters , the increase equals 105 percent .
Today, Astana 3 a veteran of the Second World War and 10 home front workers who worked in different years. today emergency department of astana has 3 veterans of the gpw and 10 rear laborers who worked in different years in our department .
of which about 60% is in the city, the rest - in the countryside.
In 2011, our state allocated 2 million euros for the construction of protective structures around the 4th NPP unit.
To date, the volume of this cargo is 117 million tons, of which 90 percent comes from marine vehicles.
Over the 20 years of its existence, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has become the body coordinating all inter-ethnic problems. for 20 years , the assembly of people of kazakhstan became an institution that coordinates all inter-ethnic problems .
According to him, 130 km of lines have now been built, 730 supports, 130 km of pipelines have been repaired, the construction of the Semipalatinskaya station has been completed.
This year it is planned to build another 27 houses and improve the housing condition of about 3 thousand families.
20 years ago we saw difficulties in this country, but today we see successful results. 20 years ago we saw the difficulties in this country , but now we notice successful results .
A new international climate agreement is expected to be signed in Paris at the end of 2015 with the support of the couple.
On December 23, Moscow will host the next session of the Collective Security Council with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
It is expected that by the end of the year 500 jobs will be created and 10 thousand jobs will be created at the start of the project.
In the office of akim of the capital there are 517 women, 189 of them in leadership positions, 328 specialists.
The design capacity of Italian, Swiss and German plants equipped with modern equipment is designed for the production of 10 thousand transformers per year.
residents of the village "iii international" of the Kyzylorda region wrote a letter to the head of state on behalf of 19 ethnic groups living in this settlement.
In general, as the Vice Minister of National Economy concluded, the export of other meat products increased 10 times.
today, the coverage of children in preschool education exceeds 80% and the plan has been implemented. today 's the coverage of children by preschool education exceeded 80 % , we go advance of the plan .
In accordance with the eeo agreement, a common electricity market should be created in 2019.
business transformation is needed, because it begins from the point of view of a company that raises the question of how to succeed in 2050.	it talks about how to achieve aims by 2050 .	2,79
According to him, all banks of Kazakhstan have fulfilled the work plan, where the level of bad loans should not exceed 15%.	according to him , almost all banks of kazakhstan have fulfilled the norm , where the level of bad loans should not exceed the rate of 15 % of the total portfolio .	2,79
total agricultural output in 2014 amounted to 162.8 billion tenge or 102.6% by 2013.
70 years since the last shot in a terrible war in human history.	a countdown clock will count 70 days left to the 70th anniversary of the victory in the great patriotic war .	2,79
The historical section of the event will involve 36 types of equipment from the Great Patriotic War.	the historical part will involve 36 models of equipment of world war ii .	2,79
In 2014, only 16.4% of total loans were issued to small business entities.	in 2014 , the total weight of loans granted for small businesses amounted 16.4 % .	2,79
only in the village of Birlik come 184 families, "said the head of the peasant economy of the Erbolat Imadils.
Born November 17, 1927 in Abkhazia in a peasant family.
In addition, the head of the industry department noted that the construction of the aea "chorgos-east gate" will be completed in 2016.
medical teams examined 85.2 thousand people in 161 remote rural settlements.
The National Fund of the Republic allocated 100 billion tenge through the state program "Development - Production" in order to support SMEs in the field of processing.
It is planned to bring sugar beet production to 4 hectares and collect 120 thousand tons of beets, "said A. Batalov.
Now 1 million 952 thousand people receive a basic pension, a total of 1 million 918 thousand people.
if before that there were 17 million people on the market, now you are getting 157 million people on the market.
In October 2013, she performed at a gala concert dedicated to the world premiere of the Astana Opera Theater.
the exercises will continue until May 20, more than 2 thousand military personnel from member states will take part in them.
As previously reported, in 2015, the republican budget provides 5.8 billion tenge for providing one-time material assistance to participants and disabled people of the Second World War, persons equated to them, home front workers and other citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who contributed to the victory in the Second World War.
Recall that this year 35 billion tenge will be allocated from the state budget to support exporters.
It is reported that during the reception of documents for legalization in the capital, 972 applications were registered.
Nұrly zhol, "expo-2017," modernization of housing, LCD - all this is designed to create new jobs.
1 . Establish the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology named after al-farab and the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of literature and art.
1) develop and approve within a month a plan of measures of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the implementation of the program;
Since April 10, every citizen can get information about himself at the place of registration. from april 10 , every citizen can check information in the voter list at the polling station at the place of registration .
The meeting will be attended by specialists in the field of cancer science and practice and outstanding scientists from 23 countries.
According to him, over the five-year period, exports grew 1.6 times and amounted to about $3 billion.
In 2015, inflation is expected to decrease within 6-8%, and in the medium term - to 5-7%.
according to the Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development of Canada, 1994-2014. The volume of Canadian investments in the Kazakh economy exceeded $16 billion.
today kha accepted "20 charitable affairs" of Akmola region.
Recall that the consulate general of Kazakhstan in Dubai and the northern emirates (Sharjah, Azhman, Umm al-Kauein, true al-Heima and Fujeira) has been operating since 1997.
The event was attended by 400 stependiates, laureates of the State Youth Prize "Daryn" and winners of the international Olympiads "Zhas Tupar."
we have opened the way to the growth of many entrepreneurs, without raising the cost of a place on the market for 10 years.
According to the fund, this center has been operating since 2013.
According to him, these payments annually increase for every 10 years in the amount of 2% of the subsistence minimum.
2) regulations on the commission for awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology named after al-Farabi;
For the period from 2003 to 2014, a lump sum of 2.9 billion tenge was paid from the national budget.
Last year, the Omar family received loans as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program and expanded production.
To date, applications for 50 projects totaling 168 billion tenge have been submitted to the territory of Industrial Park No. 1.
overhaul and modernization of the Shymkent plant with a total value of $1 billion 829 million continues.
these are: Tsho, Sienpi, Aktobe Oil and Gas Production Plant 3 in Kazakhstan and others.
According to the head of the department, 15% of industrialization map projects or more than 100 companies export $1 billion.
Today in the field of sports there are 1,500 sports facilities - stadiums, pools, hockey and tennis courts.
According to the results of the 2014 championship in the republic, we took 3rd place after Almaty and the capital.
In January-February 2015, industrial enterprises of the region produced products worth 392 billion tenge, "the report said.
To implement this project, the regional investment center "Maximum" will allocate a loan in the amount of 400 million tenge.
In addition, 13 more investor companies intend to participate in project financing in the region.
Nevertheless, the guaranteed transfer from the National Fund in the amount of 1 trillion 732 billion tenge will remain the same.
It should be noted that the election commission registered 547 proxies of presidential candidates.
With funds allocated from the local budget, 604 people of professional and 596 graduates of youth practice will be trained.
It is worth noting that a few years ago this figure was 5%, "said A. Mamin.
Since June 1, 2014, the group in correctional kindergarten No. 23 for blind children has changed its profile.
In order to solve this problem, 36 kindergartens worth 20 billion tenge will be put into operation from 2015 to 2017 at the expense of the National Fund.
Recall that in 2014, the President of Kazakhstan in his message spoke about the transition to a new economic policy.
As part of the first direction of support for new business initiatives and the third direction, "reducing foreign exchange risks of entrepreneurs" in 2014, subsidies worth 1.6 billion tenge were paid.
The meeting will be attended by specialists in the field of cancer science and practice and outstanding scientists from 23 countries.
In addition, moisturizing technology was introduced on an area of ​ ​ 438 thousand hectares, in 2013 the indicator increased by 18%, "he said.
In addition, car and moto races were held as part of the action, in which 30 cars and 20 bikers took part.
According to him, the "plan of the nation - 100 concrete steps" is aimed at modernizing key areas of society.
The fourth periodic report was adopted by the Government of Kazakhstan and sent to the Committee on the Rights of the Child in November 2011.
20 years ago, at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan was created - an institution of inter-ethnic relations. institute of interethnic relations - the assembly of people of kazakhstan was created 20 years ago on the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev .
514 applications for legalization of 985 real estate objects worth 2 billion 636 million tenge were sent for revision.
According to him, in 2014, new railway lines were introduced to optimize the railway system.
As part of the outreach, 17,000 events were held, priority events will be organized at the regional level.
A single day of consultations of the state revenue department in the city of Astana begins on February 26, 2015.
55 models of brand cars are offered to borrowers, the compilation of which is carried out on the "saryarkaavprom," "agromashholding" white and "asia auto" white, "" chevrolet, "" skoda, "" hyundai, "" ssangyong, "" peugeot, "etc.
According to B. Sagintayev, these indicators will be achieved thanks to the implementation of large investment projects with an investment volume of 656 billion tenge.
By 2019, the electricity market will be opened, by 2025 - the general market for oil, gas and petroleum products, "he said.
To date, 10 observation posts (7 automatic and 3 manual) are operating in three cities, the report said.
The College of Kazakhstan University of Technology and Business organized distance learning for 25 teenagers with disabilities in the specialty "designer."
According to him, the agreement is designed for 5 years or more in the amount of about 1 trillion tenge.
Compared to 2013, investment growth in 2014 amounted to 118%.
annually in Kyzylorda region more than 21 thousand tons of rice will be required for sowing.
In 2015, 28.4 billion tenge was allocated for the payment of a lump sum allowance for the birth of a child in the national budget.
Since 2013, the fund's entrepreneurs service centers have been operating in all regional centers of Kazakhstan.
Surety agreements were signed on 40 projects for a loan portfolio worth 493.7 million tenge.
By the end of this year, it is planned to transfer another 20 new services to mobile format.
As the head of the committee noted, the department has developed a form of administrative reporting of 25 state bodies of the republic.
As of January 1, 2015, 184.3 thousand women received this type of social payment in the amount of 50.1 billion tenge.
according to the results of the energy competition of the future, winners are determined by 4 industries.
The law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On improving energy efficiency" was adopted, 22 regulatory legal acts were approved, the program "energy conservation - 2020" was adopted.
In 2015, water will be transferred to the village of Gornoye, Yesilsky district, to the village of Chermoshnyanka, Thai district.
Such benefits can be used in the following directions of the tullar-talgo train: 19/20 astana-atyr, 87/88 aktobe-capital, 79/80 astana-shymkent, 77/78 diamond-aktobe, 49/50 diamond-aktobe, 89/90 astana-kyzylorda, 67/68 astana-growth, 69/70 diamond-growth, 35/36/36
More than 16 thousand military personnel, 194 continental military equipment, 143 aircraft and helicopters took part in the anniversary parade in Moscow.
Revenues to the republican budget in 2015 year are set in the amount of 5,988,0 billion tenge, which is 870.0 billion tenge lower than the previously approved budget (6,858,0 billion tenge).
In addition, in Aktobe, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan region, North Kazakhstan region, this indicator reaches 50%. in this case , in aktobe , atyrau , west kazakhstan , and north kazakhstan regions this figure reaches 50 % .
It is hoped that this issue will be resolved with the commissioning of 280 kindergartens under construction in this region.
In general, as the Minister of Energy noted, recoverable oil reserves in 1991 increased 1.64 times to 4 billion 823 million tons.
In March and May 2014, ktkf transported 70 thousand tons of oil by a private fleet in the direction of the Turkmen-Baku port.
if we compare the number of voters in Kazakhstan, then this is about 80%, and in Spain - 60-70%.	in kazakhstan the amount is about 80 % , while in spain the amount is 60-70 % .	2,83
All the forces used in 2014, the participating countries are also aimed at maintaining stability and security.
the company plans to produce 500 Urals and other equipment per year, "the report said.
Apply to the Department of Investment Projects and Credit Methodology of Kazagro National Holding (tel.: (7172) 705-643 internal: 1150; 1154 ; e-mail : k.sapulatov @ kazagro.kz ; a.krivenko @ kazagro.kz ; info @ kazagro.kz ) .
In general, the volume of targeted transfers will increase by 76 billion tenge and will amount to 783.5 billion tenge, the deputy concluded.
In addition, the British investor United Green plans to increase the station's capacity to 100 megawatts by the end of the year.
Work in this direction is carried out effectively, today we have 18 companies that implement 22 projects worth 400 million tenge.
During the war years, 76 thousand people went to the front from Zko, equal parts of which did not return from the fire environment.
136 children with disabilities studying at home with disabilities are covered by 62 computers, including equipment.
Recall that this animated film will be broadcast on all state television channels on May 9.
60% of them reached design capacity, the rest accelerate production according to the system schedule.
In 2014, 1,053,5 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for pension payments (including basic pension payments).
in the Izhevsk rural district, the Yesilzhay kindergarten for 120 children was commissioned, "the report said.
As noted in the report, the amount of funding for the activities of the republican budget program for 2014 will amount to 4.3 billion tenge.
20 thousand people work in them, the technological base is constantly being modernized, all the conditions for effective work have been created.
Participants gathered from 11 countries: Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Cyprus, Kyrgyzstan, Poland, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine.
It was organized in 2004, recently a decision was made to invite labor veterans.
You know very well that 28 Panfilovites of this division participated in the battle of Moscow at the most difficult moment of the war. 28 soldiers of this division took part in one of the worst moments of the war near moscow .
Consolidated revenue of Kaztransoil group of companies for 2014 amounted to 206 billion 637 million tenge, which is 5.2% higher than in 2013.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, 1280 people are covered by teaching the state language.
This year, 50% of the funds will be directed to new projects, 25% to refinancing, 25% to replenishing the capital of these enterprises.
today we have the capacity to weld and paint 80 thousand cars, as well as assemble 60 thousand cars. today 's we have a capacity for welding and painting of 80 thousand vehicles , for assembly of 60 thousand cars .
budget funds for the modernization of technical and vocational education have increased 2 times over the past three years. the budget has been increased by almost 2 times for the modernization of technical and vocational education within three years , " the minister said .
32 projects worth 254.9 billion tenge were implemented in 2010-2014, 1.6 thousand jobs were created.
During the period from February 25 to March 25, 2015, the republican and regional gardens published 10990 materials on the topic of elections.	during the period from 25 february to 25 march 2015 the national and regional media published 10990 materials on electoral issues .	2,85
the nominal wage index by December 2013 was 112.8%, and the real wage index was 105.0%, the report said.
It is expected that the meeting will approve the work plan for 2015 with a discussion of current issues.
To date, up to 3,000 tons of fish have been mined and stored in this workshop.
In this territory, which is the eighth district of the metropolis, more than 180 thousand people live.
As of May 25 of this year, 18 objects were put up for auction, of which 8 objects were sold.
as a result of the work carried out, 109 services were provided from central governments to local governments.
In 2012, amendments were made to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Electricity."
To date, 170 organizations are engaged in certification of industrial facilities according to working conditions.
under the Thriving and Successful Initiative, 98 people complete their training and receive certificates.
It is expected that this project will be commissioned in 2017, "the agency said.
It is noted that in Kazakhstan 5 million people are vaccinated against infectious diseases every year, including 1.3 million children.
K. Massimov visited polling station No. 99 at the Gorky Russian Drama Theater in Astana.
According to the head of the committee, the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 6 trillion 574 billion tenge and increased by 3.9%.
According to him, 250 shells were seized from the veteran's body using several operations.
In addition, places for taxis have been identified in the city of Taraz, 33 taxi parks have been built.
In addition, 120 additional places have been created in existing preschool organizations.
Today, banks approved 106 small and medium-sized business projects worth 30 billion tenge and 8 large business projects worth 13 billion tenge, B. sagintayev said.
According to the director of the public fund "Line of Life 24" Ernar Nurbekov, this project will cover war veterans in all regions of the republic.
As part of the measures taken in 2014, the country achieved macroeconomic and financial stability.
now the construction of a plant for processing 150 thousand tons of rice per day is underway.
kindergarten staff is 70 people. "
In 2009, at the 5th Congress of Women of Kazakhstan, it was instructed to develop a special program for women's entrepreneurship.
In 1940, my father was drafted into the Red Army. my father zeken iskakovich toleubekov was called in ranks of red army in 1940 .
as a result, the content of the 69 specialties program for the training of specialists for the innovative sector of the economy will be updated.
During this time, the organizing committee received about 400 applications from 45 countries of far and near abroad.
According to the Governor's Office, the construction of the main workshop has been completed by 100%, its area is 850 square meters. m
The Bureau also submitted proposals to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the Chamber in 2015.
According to the Department of Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of Kyzylorda region, 426 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for these purposes.
97% of Muslims in the country trust the Office of Religious Affairs and do not have terrorism in the country.
Since 2007, he has been working in the central election commission, a member of the commission and head of the department.
According to him, for 20 years the assembly has been recognized as an institution of coordination of inter-ethnic problems in the state.
A production support card has been prepared by highly qualified specialists for 14 industrial programs and projects.
after taking the oath during the performance of the national anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 21 artillery shots occurred.
As of November 1, 2014, the problems of 50 emergency schools and 27 three-shift schools have been solved.
As of January 12, 2015, about 200 certificates of vehicle safety have been issued.
in total, 30 couples from Austria, China, Taiwan, Russia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Georgia and Kazakhstan took part in the tournament.
This is evidenced by the holding in the capital of the Asian Games 2011 and other international competitions.
As of April 24 of this year, 18 objects were put up for auction, of which 7 objects were sold.
target transfers of the National Fund increased by 76 billion tenge, after adjusting the "Nұrly zhol" program - by 783.5 billion tenge.
These are conditions aimed at strengthening Kazakhstan's statehood, including 5 reforms proposed by the president.
And for the newly arrived lieutenant graduates of military universities in 2014, a set of measures was developed.
in the next three years 10 billion dollars will be allocated for implementation of the program "Nrla zhol" from national fund.
According to the 2009 census, the educational level of women is higher than that of men.
during the subbotnik, 3,645 large-sized tree seedlings will be planted (red Christmas tree, Tatar pile, pine, birch, oak, pyramidal poplar, paint):
In addition, infrastructure and structures of the second stage of itp aea are being built on an area of ​ ​ 163 hectares. engineering and transport infrastructure and facilities of the second stage of sez pit on an area of 163 hectares are under construction , " he said .
As reported in East Kazakhstan region, 20% of all innovative products of the Republic of Kazakhstan are produced in eastern Kazakhstan.
As of May 14 of this year, 18 objects were put up for auction, of which 8 objects were sold.
in recent years, 300 km of new lines have been built, and the total length of the line in the city is 2700 km.
On April 21, Prime Minister Karim Massimov held a government meeting at which the issue of the flood situation in the country was considered. on 21 april , prime minister of kazakhstan karim massimov held a meeting of the government , and one of the issues was the flood situation in the country .
It is not by chance that 20% of innovative products in Kazakhstan are produced in this area.
earlier in Semey there were problems with heating, 200 boiler houses wrapped the city in smoke.
On December 25, 2012, with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, the country's first plant for the production of photovoltaic modules "astana solar" was opened.
Together with Kazakh and Russian army athletes, representatives of military sports committees of 82 countries take part in the assembly.
we must play sports if we want to be among the 30 competitive countries in the world, "said the deputy prime minister.
Last year, 10.3 million tons of cargo were transported through the sea gates of Kazakhstan, which is 2% higher than in 2013.
Yesterday, May 4, on behalf of the entire Kazkontent AK team, veterans were presented with gifts and thanked for their peaceful life.
We believe that the annual implementation of this program will bring income in the amount of 100 billion tenge, "- said the head of state.
this year, by the holiday, the amount increased to 600 million tenge, "he said.
Since 2012, he has been a member of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2012-2014.
Today, Kazakhstan is included in the list of 30 developed countries of the world in many respects.	today , kazakhstan has been included in the top 30 developed countries for many characteristics .	2,87
The head of LCD met with labor collectives working at 4 stations and 18 overpasses.
The cost of one meter of rental housing will be from 800 tenge to 1100 tenge, he said.
In total, as part of the program, 15 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund for lending to individuals for the purchase of cars assembled in Kazakhstan.
the symbol "20 good deeds" kha is considered "taikazan."
In May 2014, President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev, Russian leader Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus A.Lukashenko signed an eo agreement in the capital.
This year they will build 5 schools, next year they will build 1 more.
As for the international competition institution, it has been operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan since 1994.
Thus, in the winter season of 2014-2015, 300 hockey courts will be presented in the North Kazakhstan region for the benefit of the country.
Currently, the issue of creating 4 industrial zones with an area of ​ ​ 350 hectares is being considered.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2015, 243 objects are scheduled for sale.
In the form of health for 30 visits, all conditions for quality service of the population are created.
90% of the materials applied to road restoration are products of domestic producers.
As a result, in 2015-2019, 1 million 4 thousand square meters of rental apartments will be built and commissioned, the vice minister said.
As a result of competitive selection, 200 applicants for the title of "best university teacher" were determined.
Currently, observers of foreign states, international organizations and representatives of foreign gardens are accredited, a total of 847 people.
Nadezhda Kravchenko was born in Kokshetau in 1923.
The high level of enrolment of children in preschool education in the region is about 90%.
The meeting discussed issues of Kazakh-Lithuanian cooperation, including the preparation of the visit of the Prime Minister of Lithuania to Kazakhstan in May 2015.
According to the approved schedule in 2016, the winter sports festival "North" is held in the Akkayyn district.
This time, the German company promondis Kazakhstan began the construction of solar power plants with a total capacity of 75 MW in our region.
a budget loan of 60 billion tenge was approved from the republican budget, which will be allocated to Kazagro for lending, "Makhazhanov said.
To date, 103 sports facilities are operating in the district and another 12 tennis venues have been opened.
The implementation of the UN program plans until 2030 depends on the preparatory work of the conference on the development of international financing. the implementation of the un program up to 2030 depends on the international conference on financing for development .
After the training courses, 640 citizens implemented new business projects totaling 1.7 billion tenge.
Since the beginning of the year, the volume of state special benefits under lists No. 1 and No. 2 in accordance with the increase amounted to 18,671 and 16,610 tenge.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, 10 billion tenge will be allocated for the opening of special laboratories in the coming years, "the vice minister said.
Created in 1995, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan became a new stage in the history of the stay of Poles on Kazakh soil.
To date, 250 tons of milk are processed here, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
the train consists of 23 cars, including 2 business, a grand "2," a tourist "14," a restaurant "2 cars" and 3 technical cars.
gross output amounted to 1.5 trillion tenge, of which 60 percent is in the manufacturing industry.
In 2014, 777.1 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the repair of 45 high-rise buildings, the report said.
including the national plan of 100 steps for the further construction of the state.
The heads of state noted the importance of implementing the Minsk agreements of February 12 to resolve the Ukrainian crisis.
It is expected that this facility will attract investments of 2.7 billion tenge and create 30 new jobs.
33 rescuers and 9 pieces of equipment are on duty on 6 boats in the area of ​ ​ the village around the clock.
So, in the area of ​ ​ the architectural microdistrict, another 3.3 hectares of land with a total area of ​ ​ 9 five-story buildings will be allocated.
In total, 204 Almaty companies took advantage of state support measures and concluded contracts for $256.9 million.
the new five-story school is designed for 300 students and will be a mini-center.
First, he visited the rural district, where he got acquainted with the work of school number 185.
in Pavlodar, Mangistau regions 2, in West Kazakhstan, Kostanay and North Kazakhstan regions 1 service.
As of October 1, 2014, there are 8,596 preschool institutions in the republic.
It is worth noting that the first international tank competition was held in 2013 at the Alabino training ground.
The foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan in January-November amounted to 110 billion 588 million dollars, which is 9.9% less compared to the same period in 2013. foreign trade turnover of kazakhstan in january-november amounted to 110 billion 588 million dollars and in comparison with the same period in 2013 decreased by 9.9 % .
The construction of a sports complex with 320 seats in the village of Shagandy, Uralsk, is planned to be completed in August.
15 new projects of the industrialization map will be put into operation in a solemn atmosphere online:
we merged with English companies and created 10 million of them, 10 million on our part, that is, 20 million. Tenge.
all prizes (1-3 places) were won by tankers of the military unit 10810.	according to the ministry of defense , all prizes won tankers military unit 10810 .	2,89
1) consulting services related to certification of goods, works and services and quality management system;	1 ) consulting services related to the certification of goods , works , services and quality management systems ;	2,89
According to the Vice Minister, by 2018, the sown area in Kazakhstan amounted to 22.5 million hectares.	according to the deputy minister , the acreage will amount almost to 22.5 million hectares in kazakhstan in 2018 .	2,89
the Shymkent-Tashkent highway with a length of 99 km is divided into 3 sections.
According to the head of the Ministry of Education and Science, 400 children are studying under this program in Kazakhstan.
the number of sports facilities and facilities of the region increased by 64 units and amounted to 3132 units.
Recall that the application for participation in the presidential election was submitted by applicants on March 12.
To date, 39 joint ventures and 86 enterprises with Lithuanian capital have been registered in Almaty.
According to Satanism, the number of active small and medium-sized businesses in the capital reaches 60 thousand people. according to statistics , the number of small and medium-sized is about 60 thousand units .
In addition, it is planned to overhaul all 18 airports of the country by 2020.
in the total employed population, women made up 345.8 thousand people or 49%.
35 billion tenge was allocated for the development of exports of finished products next year in the amount of 15 billion tenge, "he said.
Direct investment in manufacturing has increased significantly over the past 5 years as part of industrialization. as part of industrialization the volume of foreign direct investment in manufacturing increased significantly in the last 5 years .
According to the chamber, currently 150 hectares of land are allocated at the international whitewash airport.
7054.5 million tenge of subsidies were allocated and developed in 2014 to support the agro-industrial complex of the region.
Thailand's share of alternative and renewable sources of energy is 6 per cent.
Also, the cadets were congratulated by the commander of the military unit of the 30212 guard, Colonel Sabyr Kayumov.
This year, about half a million square meters of housing or 10 thousand apartments will be built. this year nearly half a million square meters or about 10 thousand apartments will be constructed .
Since 2015, the documents necessary for the opening of the enterprise have been translated into electronic format.
As part of the PPP implementation, interest rate subsidies for all projects up to 4.5 billion tenge were increased to 10%. in the framework of spiid interest rate increased to 10 % .
According to the metropolitan, restoration work in the cathedral has not been carried out for more than 100 years.
growth in industrial production was noted in 10 regions of the republic, "the report said.
Since 2015, applications for the prize of the President of Kazakhstan will be selected by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs. since 2015 the national chamber of entrepreneurs will begin the shortlisting of contenders for the prize of the president of kazakhstan " altyn sapa . "
At the same time, he noted that the volume of investments in this area until 2030 is 656 billion tenge.
On April 26, 2015, Nursultan Nazarbayev will solemnly take the oath of the head of state after winning the upcoming elections.
Since the beginning of the action, 515 appeals have been received from citizens so far.
In 2010 and 2014 - Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies, Minister of Transport and Communications, Adviser to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Each year, 12 young people from different parts of the country working in the law enforcement sector take part in the competition.
in many countries, half of gross domestic product, in some, up to 70%, comes from services.
According to the results of 2014, the consumer price index amounted to 107.4%, which is at the level of the average republican indicator.
the preschool institution will cover 68% of the population.
This electoral process is quite high compared to the elections of 1999, 2005, 2011.
In addition, according to the head of the department, in 2015 it is planned to attract 178 billion tenge of investments in the electric power industry.
As noted in the report, in 2014, 130 ha of potatoes and 10 ha of vegetables were sown.
By the end of the year, it is planned to commission 19 multi-storey and 1,429 individual residential buildings.
the share of individual housing in total housing introduced was 5.2%, compared to 7.2% in 2013.
Since January 1, 2015, eao, which is the founder of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
another 23 projects worth about 600 billion tenge are waiting for queues.
Thanks to this, 260 thousand people were employed in 2011-2014 and another 120 thousand were educated, "the head of state said.
In 2015, 19.6 billion tenge was allocated in the national budget for benefits for citizens raising disabled children.
The head of state noted the beginning of a new stage in becoming one of the 30 best countries in the world.
They will master one of the military-technical specialties within the framework of the training program for the military-trained reserve within 40 training days.
as part of the detachment for bypassing remote settlements, 35 people, of which 15 are doctors.
According to him, citing the emergency service of the Karaganda region, the situation with the flood stabilized in 6 districts.
33 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 652 thousand square meters in them are intended for residents of 42 emergency houses.
Also, within the framework of the press conference, the Makazhanov noted that Kazagro's investment portfolio consists of 477 projects worth 309 billion tenge.
So, in 2014, the population of the city grew by 6% and amounted to 41.6 thousand children.
According to part 70 of Article 1 of the Convention of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the election of a re-elected president, the government terminates its competence.
On February 3, 2015, the famous flag visited the capital on the area of ​ ​ 5573 brigades of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that during the construction 873 people were employed, after the opening of the plant 491 people were employed.
Also on October 29, Air Astana Airlines opened a daily air route to the capital - Ural - the capital.
the airport in the city is designed for 3 million passengers per year, last year this point was reached. there is an airport designed for passenger traffic of 3 million passengers per year .
the train consists of 23 cars, including 2 "business," grand "2," tourist "14," restaurant "2 cars" and 3 technical cars.
According to him, in 2014 and the beginning of this year, two sports and sports complexes were opened in Novoishimsky and Zharkensky districts.
Following the results of the round table, a statement was adopted on the importance of the presidential elections scheduled for April 26, 2015.
the costs of the pit and warehouse landfill are the first stage of selection, in which 9 crews took part. the outputs in otar and oimasha polygon are the first stage of the shortlisting , which involves 9 crews .
At the initiative of President Nazarbayev, a nationwide campaign to support veterans of the Great Patriotic War will be held in 2015.
the number of people employed in this area is about half of the working-age population of the city, namely 233 thousand people, "said the Adilbek Jaksybekov.
In the city of Aktobe, during the first 30 minutes of the program launch, the system received 1594 applications.
In general, according to experts, over the past 18 months, the eurozone economy has shown slight growth.
He also noted that this year the regional center continues to implement 4 projects.
of all the regions of Kazakhstan, the most famous were East Cossacks - 109 soldiers and officers.
12 documents in the fields of economics, finance, health, education and law are being prepared for signature.
the territory of the industrial park, which enters the territory of the capital - the new city, is 598 hectares.
after the construction and commissioning of the horgos-eastern gate, 25 thousand jobs will be created.
It is noted that in the new 45-apartment building there is one, two three-room apartments.
46 private sector houses were flooded in the city of temirtau and 48 people were evacuated. in temirtau 46 houses of the private sector remain flooded , 48 people were evacuated .
the share of local seeds in production is about 30%, next year this share will reach 50%.
In total, according to B. Meldeshov, 1024 international observers and representatives of foreign gardens were registered.
in the socio-economic sphere, prosecutors identified 395,000 violations and took measures to eliminate them.
By January 1, 2016, their number is planned to increase to 10%, "he said.
This year, the German company "b.braun" will be launched - a modern dialysis center based on 20 artificial renal devices.
In general, in 2013-2014 under this program 1,108 people received loans in the amount of 2,071 million tenge, which made it possible to create 1510 new jobs.
According to the chairman of the board, since the inception of the company, high-capacity installations have been replaced since 2000.
Earlier, two years ago, school No. 269 with 600 seats was opened in the village of Toretam.
Governor's Office of the region concluded agreements with national companies and backbone enterprises of the country to develop local content for 128 billion tenge.
thus, when confirming the authenticity of signatures of citizens in 93 thousand 012, verification of the remaining signatures is not carried out.
Recall that the transfer of services to the mobile format will be carried out within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020," approved by the president.
Over 5 years, automotive production has increased the production of cars by 12 times, tractors - by 6 times.
The industrialization map in the region produced products worth more than 53 billion tenge, including in 2014 - 23 billion tenge.
During the meeting, it is planned to approve the work plan of the Council for the development of youth entrepreneurship of Kazakhstan for 2015.
in total, it is planned to install about 15 production and transport logistics facilities on its territory. on its territory is planned to accommodate about 15 industrial , transport and logistics facilities .
59 sanitary vehicles were purchased at the expense of the regional budget, including 33 intensive care units.
the number of jobs during commissioning is 118 people, "the report said.
The State Information Program of Kazakhstan 2020 set specific tasks for modernization of domestic media.
62,500 tenge at the expense of the Eurasian Bank purchased desks, marker boards and other supplies.
Two years ago the design and estimate documentation of the school for 200 places was developed, the Governor's office of the region reported.
After the long-awaited victory, he returned to his homeland in 1945.
of these, 365 projects worth 221.4 billion tenge, including 73 investment projects in 2014.
7.2 billion tenge was allocated by the state for this complex, of which 4 billion - for the purchase of modern equipment. 7.2 billion tenge was allocated for this complex , 4 billion tenge of them was spent on purchase of modern equipment .
The head of the metropolis noted that today 850 participants of the Great Patriotic War living in Almaty are 157 women.
Girsh Leonid Yuzefovich has been a member of the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan since 1995.
In total, 19 projects have been approved in seven areas for the current year, "said Albert Rau, Vice Minister for Investment and Development.
Under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, the share of private partnerships reached 50%.
On the same day, 15.7 thousand 1 applications worth 908 billion tenge were approved. of these , more than 1 908 applications amounting to more than 15.7 billion tenge were approved .
On March 13, a trilateral meeting of the presidents of Kazakhstan, Belarus and the Russian Federation is scheduled, "the statement said.
In general, activists visited 222 supermarkets, which is about 60% of retail facilities, "said D. Zhumin.
According to him, the female community of Kazakhstan occupies about 70% of the income level of men.
1,045 persons with disabilities were actually employed, which is 103.7% of the plan
The train "Salamatty қazaқstan" from the city of Astana is aimed at surveying the residents of 20 stations in the Karaganda region.
According to the holding, in 2015 it is planned to launch 75 investment projects worth 50 billion tenge.
In the period from March 23 to April 13, 2015, doctors-specialists of the Assistance advisory and diagnostic train visited remote villages, small stations in Aktobe and Kyzylorda region.
in the whole country along the national roads it is necessary to build 400 service facilities.
Returning in 1950, he met his mother and three sisters.
In 2015, a gas pipeline will be supplied to the akkemer village of the Mughalzhar region, and gasification of the Karakuduk aul will also be fully completed.
Thus, the agreement consists of 12 articles that set out the forms and procedure for cooperation.
3,335 stories were broadcast on republican television channels (49%), 1,121 materials (17%) were broadcast on radio, 556 articles (8%) were published in newspapers, and 1,788 publications (26%) were published on Internet resources.
By 2016, the dual education system will increase by 50%, the department assured.
According to the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan, during the meeting statistics for the past year compared to 2013 were considered.
The age-old dream of our people on December 16, 1991 became the historical choice of today's generation.
Kazakhstan today has three opera and ballet theaters, and in the regions - about 50 theaters.
children who cannot move independently study remotely on a paid basis with a 20% discount.
Currently, 101 points of the Almaty zone are connected to natural gas, the report said.
He noted that the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 19 billion 159.1 million tenge.
The XXVII World Winter Universiade held in 2015 in Kazakhstan was attended by 93 athletes in 7 sports.
the city headquarters is located in the building of the metropolitan city branch of the party "Nұr Otan" on Independence Street 3.
According to the results of 2014, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan determined the best in 10 nominations.
Since 2011, Kazakh scientists have provided free access to global information resources thomson reuters, springer, elsevier.
4) the composition of the commission for awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology named after al-farab;
According to its results, 4,610 young people were employed in the framework of the republican and city employment programs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of five institutional reforms and the need for qualitative implementation of the "100 steps" action plan.
The agreement between Kazakhstan and Bulgaria on the transfer of persons was signed on November 14, 2014 in the city of Sofia.
Gulshara abdykalikova also expressed hope for the active participation of Italian colleagues in the exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital.
It is worth noting that 2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the country.
A significant increase compared to the corresponding period of 2013 was observed in the Yesilsky district (by 7.2%).
The rights of more than 746 thousand citizens, including 239 thousand teenagers, were protected and restored.
Kelimbetov also noted that the level of problem loans as of January 1, 2016 is 10%.
awarded with labor front and various medals and not awarded, receive 40 from 80 thousand tenge.
In total, 513 residential buildings, 491 non-residential and 23 commercial facilities were legalized, "the report said.
The exhibition will be held at the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan on April 13, 2015.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, irrigated land in the region is 33.6 thousand hectares (64%).
According to him, since 2011, 28 thousand people received microcredit, which created 26 thousand jobs.
2) conduct certification audit and certification tests of goods, works, services and quality management system;
Also in 2005, training of general practitioners began (hereinafter - GTD).
In addition, as the minister explained, more than 45 thousand people will be involved in construction sites.
oil prices will remain on average about $50 per year, "said v. Dodonov.
In this regard, I want to draw attention to the document published in Kazakhstan - these are 100 concrete steps of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The average amount of benefits as of January 2015, 1 amounted to 1970.7 tenge per month.
So, as part of the Nұrly zhol program, it is planned to purchase and build 29 thousand apartments from developers.
today, peasants are provided with 523 thousand tons of seeds and 65 thousand tons of cheaper diesel fuel. today , farmers are provided with 523 thousand tons and 65 thousand tons of reduction in price of diesel fuel .
The volume of guaranteed transfers from the National Fund remained in the approved amount of 1 trillion 702 billion tenge. the size of the guaranteed transfer from the national fund is maintained at the approved level of 1 trillion 702 billion tenge .
According to the calculations of the institute, each 1 billion investment in the transport industry will add an additional 2 billion tenge for the total cost.
The agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary on the transfer of convicted persons was concluded in Budapest on June 3, 2014.
In addition, according to the head of the department, the area of irrigated land in the region increased by 5 thousand hectares and amounted to 90 thousand hectares.
industrial production amounted to 3 trillion 372 billion tenge and grew by 0.6%.
Two more schools with 1,200 seats and two preschool institutions with 480 seats will receive children.
we opened our plant using the state program "Business Roadmap - 2020," Zhanakov rejoices.
The main prize of the competition was received by the Taldykorgan volcano, he was awarded a cash prize in the amount of 250 thousand tenge.
With a plan of 800 tons, 894.3 tons were actually exported, which is 5.5 times more than this year.
the number of saigas in Kazakhstan reached 256.7 thousand, which is 6.4 times more than in 2005.
for voting N. Nazarbayev arrived at polling station No. 81 in the Palace of schoolchildren.
Since the beginning of implementation of the "Business Road Map 2020" program 399 projects of entrepreneurs received assistance in the amount of 47.3 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan information and communication technologies are developing within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020."
tax payments from enterprises amounted to 27.7 billion tenge, including 4.6 billion tenge in 2014. the amount of tax revenues from the activities of the enterprises amounted to 27.7 billion tenge , including in 2014 - 4.6 billion tenge .
It is worth noting that 11 laws are concentrated in the QC and there are some points from 1 law "on concession."
By the end of the year, it is planned to build another 8 kindergartens and bring this figure to 100%.
The investment portfolio of Kazagro national holding today includes 477 projects worth 309 billion tenge.
Including under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," subsidies for bank loans amounted to 200 million tenge.
In particular, Kazakhstan has been participating in the "forecasting and analysis process" programme since 2002.
Last year, the event on the next draft of citizens of Kazakhstan for military service was held in April-June and October-December 2014.
Competitions were held in 4 sports: arm wrestling, gyre, cable skating and relay.
training of junior military specialists began in July 2014 and will last until the end of April 2015.
35 private business entities of Aktobe region took part in the Paryz competition.
For three months, 4,115 devices were distributed to veterans, to date, 500 calls have been sold, "he said.
we support the initiative of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of veterans of the armed forces of Kazakhstan to hold early presidential elections on February 14. we , the veterans of the armed forces of kazakhstan , strongly support the initiative to hold the presidential elections , voiced by the assembly of people of kazakhstan on february 14 .
2 . The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure the organization and holding of early presidential elections.
In general, domestic milk production accounts for 17% of the country's production.
The meeting was attended by 60 entrepreneurs in the manufacturing industry, mechanical engineering, grain industry and the production of building materials.
As the department added, such a practice is planned to be introduced in practice in 2016.
In the future, construction will be completed in 2015, "the report said.
- The city contest "Abai Readings," held on April 24, 2015 among representatives of other nationalities;
The medical team of the train employs 18 doctors of the highest and first qualification categories.
for other services 17%; 6% for scientific and technical services; industry accounts for 5%.
We have been members of the European Union for 2 years, and this time coincided with the economic crisis in the region. we are members of the european union for 2 years , and these two years have coincided with the economic crisis in the region , but also with the growth of exports of croatian goods .
According to representatives of the ministry, a total of 148 activities are included in the plan within the framework of the concept of cultural policy of the country.
In general, according to the deputy, the industrialization map produced products and provided services worth 100 billion tenge.
Currently, 35 furniture and wood products have been made, "the report said.
of which 6,997 stories (79%) aired on television channels, 1619 (18%) were published in print media and 246 (3%) materials were posted on Internet resources.
25 people went to war from our village, of which only three returned, "said the veteran.
total agricultural output in 2014 amounted to 162.8 billion tenge or 102.6% by 2013.
According to him, today there are 23 "mother's houses" in all regional centers of Kazakhstan.
in cross-country skiing 1 and 2 age groups among men 5 kilometers ago.
however, this award was presented to him after 11 years.
In addition, 29 foreign investors from the global 2000 (tk) list work in the manufacturing sector of the country.
In addition, next year 23 educational facilities, 9 health facilities, 3 sports facilities will be built in the region.
According to information, 130 girls work in the central office of the ministry, that is, 40% of the employees are women.
The company "38" created 2,800 jobs in the southern industrial zone, attracted 18 billion tenge of investments.
this baton will continue in all regions of the country, where 20 good deeds will be done.
The action will be completed on January 15, 2015 at the Young Guard Republican School.
The first winners in various competitions in running 5 and 2.5 km also became known.
According to him, today 26 countries have officially confirmed their participation in the international exhibition.
agriculture; art, entertainment and recreation services; on average, public administrations account for 1%.
In the first five-year plan, 70% of all foreign investment was received by the processing sector.	for the first five year plan the manufacturing sector received 70 percent of all foreign investment in kazakhstan 's economy .	2,99
Thus, the government decree comes into force on January 7, 2015, the department added.	thus , from january 7 , 2015 the governmental regulation will put into effect .	2,99
with traditional irrigation, 210 cubic meters of water per 10 acres of land will be consumed.
In addition, over 24 years of independence, we have formed a solid growth platform.
of which 25.9 - 76% of the shares of Kyzyltu LLP and 100% of the shares of repair service LLP.
we know why you started 20 years ago and what you've achieved now.
of which the funds invested by Kazagrofinance JSC, KZT2,995 million (83%), the borrower's own funds - KZT607 million (17%).
In addition, it is planned to employ about 409 thousand people in 4 countries, "he said.
for the first time, 20% of congress delegates are leaders of primary party organizations.
specifically, we reduced the energy efficiency of the economy by 19%. as for the achievements : we reduced the energy efficiency of the economy by 19 % .
According to him, despite certain difficulties, this year it is planned to create 12 thousand new jobs in the region.
manufacturing prices for industrial products in February 2015 decreased by 17.8% compared to December 2014.
Among them is the project "20 good deeds."
organization of house-building plant, project cost - 1500 million tenge, Zapadalyansstroy LLP, 40 new jobs were created.
It was founded in 2014 by the private charity foundation Precious Heritage.
the museum complex with a total area of ​ ​ 74 thousand square meters consists of seven blocks.
more than half of women in public administration (54.2 per cent); in agriculture and fisheries - 22%.
In May 2015, it is planned to begin construction of another kindergarten for 320 places.
It is worth noting that the construction of this sports facility took 1.5 months and the sponsors transferred 15 million tenge.
at the final stage, 704 schoolchildren from all regions of the republic took part in the scientific and mathematical discipline.
773 million tenge was allocated from the local budget to provide employment and social support to the population of the region, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
In addition, 98 horses of the Bashkir breed and 5 slaves of power breeds were acquired.
Currently, 300 pieces of doors, windows, are satisfied with the demand of the village.
557 organizations providing services for stationary and non-stationary technologies, today 29% are privately owned. among 557 providers 29 % are representatives of the private sector .
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-March amounted to 969 billion tenge and grew by 2.9%.
the primary result of the operational examination reveals gold and silver within 10 minutes.
Recall, on March 5, "Taikazan" was transferred to the Almaty region of Zhambyl region.
In addition, he added that the first personnel for industries of the industrialization map will be ready in 2017.
23 billion tenge of budget funds were allocated for the construction of roads of the national level, "he said.
At the same time, the presidential and parliamentary elections in 2016 correspond simultaneously.
It is a pity that we were in last place among 15 countries.
As of December 2014, the number of itp ea participants is 157 companies.
114 drawings of children from six to twelve years old from all over the country were accepted for the competition.
he will carry out an honorary mission to deliver the pennant to the troops of the Kapchagai garrison on January 8.
On February 25, 2015, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed decree No. 1018 "On the appointment of early presidential elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
closed military facilities and landfills received 150 thousand specialists and their families, "said N. Nazarbayev.
oil production increased from 25 million tons in 1991 to 80.8 million tons in 2014.	according to him , the volume of crude oil production increased from 25 million in 1991 up to 80.8 million tons in 2014 year .	3,02
they will go to pay off military debt in the military unit 30212 in the guards military town, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.	they went to serve in the military unit no . 30212 .	3,02
So, in the summer of 2015, the construction of the Aea National Industrial Petrochemical Technological Park will begin, the minister assured.
It should be noted that in the Kazalinsky district 89% of children are provided with kindergartens.
construction was carried out mainly in the Almaty region with an increase of 44.3%, sko - by 29.9%, zko - by 28.2%, the capital - by 23%.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the volume of industrial production in 2014 reached 295.2 billion tenge.
At the same time, the republican budget received 336 million tenge, the regional budget - 707 million tenge, and the holdings found 25 billion tenge and 3 billion tenge on the sale of objects.
of the total number of students, 360,536 people (75.5%) study full-time, 95,956 (20.1%) in absentia, 20,895 people (4.4%) in the evening type of study.
To date, the plant has manufactured 24 units of freight electric locomotives kz8a to the customer.
in Almaty region - 87 children, in Almaty - 82, Zhambyl region - 71, East Kazakhstan region - 67 children.
To date, the company's foreign currency debt is $580 million, "said Kazhiev.
So, in 2011, 16 billion tenge was allocated from the regional budget for this area, in 2014, 35 billion tenge was allocated for health care.
kazakhstan pipe traders - a very important project for us, the volume of investments in which is 40 million dollars.
The Ambassador informed that the Kazakhstan Chernobyl Shelter Fund was allocated 1 million euros in additional funds as financial assistance.
aviators demonstrate in the air the number "70," testifying to the anniversary of the great victory.
Born in 1926 in the village of Panfilovo, Irtysh district, Pavlodar region.
Also, in accordance with article 1, paragraph 42, the head of state will take an oath to the people.
currently 817 participants of the Great Patriotic War and home front workers live in Almaty.
The new road is a program for the development of the state until 2050.
Modern devices located at the station can simultaneously refuel 8 buses.
From 2005 to 2013, direct investment inflows exceeded $60 million.
According to him, an agreement has been concluded for 2016, it is planned to rent 44,820 thousand square meters of housing.
revenues to the republican budget as of April 1, 2015 amounted to 1 trillion 423.4 billion tenge and were executed by 94.3%. the income of the republican budget on april 1 , 2015 amounted to 1 trillion 423.4 billion tenge and executed by 94.3 % .
So, 70% of the products sold in the supermarket "central gastronomy" are domestic manufacturers.
the order provides for exemption from planned inspections of business entities in the first half of 2015.
According to the press service of Akorda, the hospital with 320 beds was built as part of the state program "100 schools and 100 hospitals."
In addition, 5 farms at their own expense brought 4470 heads of sheep worth 96.2 million tenge.
we note two features of the early presidential election: a record 95% voter turnout. we note two things in the snap presidential election : a record number of voters - 95 % .
The consumer price index in December 2014 amounted to 107.4% compared to the same period in 2013. the consumer price index in december 2014 compared to december 2013 amounted to 107.4 % .
As you know, 500 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund for the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program for 2015-2017.
In Kazakhstan, 2.5 thousand heads of cattle of 600 million breeds are involved in the creation of new breeds. in kazakhstan breed transformation occupies more than 600 thousand heads of commercial breeding stock of 2.5 million .
As a result, more than 10 thousand jobs were saved, 2 thousand new jobs were created.
at the same time, 17 halls work in the national academic library.
its effectiveness in the direction "Employment Roadmap - 2020" is updated.
5083 WWII veterans are provided with "Life Line" medical annunciators (contact point).
The district budget approached KZT 5,035 million, including tax revenues amounted to KZT 1,173,9 million, other revenues - KZT 85.3 million.
At the age of 10 he entered the Higher Academy of Music of Mila at the la Scala Theater.
Also, since December 2011, the cooperative has become one of the importers of the European Union.
In 2015-2016, 50 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund to support exports through development institutions, the vice minister said.
Governor of the Yesilsky district of Sabila Mustafina will also summarize the results of the district's activities on February 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.
In July 1941 he was drafted into the Red Army. my grandfather gabdulkair alimzhanov drafted into the red army in july 1941 .
Today, Kazakhstan aims to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world. today , kazakhstan has a new aim to enter the top 30 developed countries .
In 2015, wool growth is estimated at 1.5%, which is 3.3 percentage points lower than the updated indicator in November. the gdp growth is estimated at 1.5 % in 2015 .
now doctors will be able to accept patients from 18 districts of the region without problems.
Since January 1 of this year, pension payments have increased by 9%, "said infrequently.
the volume index of production in 2014 was 103.9%.
a permit document for the use of avionics and high-voltage devices was issued 34,631 times.
16 regional and 5 sectoral energy conservation plans are being implemented, as well as the program of FNB Samruk-Kazyna JSC and its subsidiaries.
In 2012, gas supply to small towns was fully completed.
30 people from 8 districts of the city took part in the title of the best florist of Almaty and a reward of 1 million tenge.
Each of the 680 settlements should have a football field, "said the head of the region.
2015 is a big risk for the Eurasian Economic Union, a big test year.	according to nursultan nazarbayev , 2015 is a great challenge for the eaeu .	3,04
In 2014, reforestation and breeding were carried out on an area of ​ ​ 80.4 thousand hectares.	in 2014 , reforestation and afforestation were carried out on the area of 80.4 thousand hectares .	3,04
In 1968, the veteran and his family moved to the Dobrotnoye village, where he still lived.	in 1968 he moved with his family to kazakhstan .	3,04
7 billion tenge is allocated for the reconstruction of these facilities from the state budget, including 4.6 billion tenge under the Nұrly zhol program.
it is planned to process 10-15 tons of milk per day, the possibility of producing 50 tons per day is provided.
It is worth noting that today there are 56 training points in the field.
According to statistics, in 2013 the level of modern trade in Kazakhstan amounted to 29%, in Russia - 61%, in China - 64%. in 2013 , according to the statistics , in kazakhstan 29 % accounts for the modern trade formats , in russia - 61 % , in china - 64 % .
In total, 770 new enterprises were opened, where more than 75 thousand people received new jobs.
Bolashak, "approved in 1993.
the number of employees in SMEs increased by 9%, "the report said.
According to him, in 2015 kha intends to attract the public to hold anniversary holidays.
50% growth in a short period, "said A. Mamytbekov.
total project value 1.8 billion tenge and creation of 192 new jobs.
Also, as part of the support for pensioners, material assistance was provided to 11 home front workers.
According to him, this year 34 summer holiday camps will work outside the city.
Yesterday, at a government meeting, a draft program for the development of the sphere of activity of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020 was considered. yesterday , the draft program for the development of services in kazakhstan until 2020 was reviewed .
98 military personnel working under the contract took part in training and methodological training.
The history of this brigade, whose soldiers reached the Reichstag, begins on December 21, 1941.
At the same time, last year 93.1 thousand square meters of housing or 1,881 apartments were rented.
funds from the national budget, as well as 10% of the funds allocated from the local budget, were allocated for construction.
63.8 thousand people were officially registered with the employment authorities at the end of April 2015.
on the way to the mausoleum "lamb of blankets - bayan beauty," which became a symbol of love, a 146-meter bridge was built over the Batyz River.
Thus, the number of permits in the field of fire safety decreased by 15 times.
At the end of 2015, we plan to commission 600 km of new roads.
According to the results of last year, the average monthly salary in the city increased by 12.5 thousand tenge and amounted to 155 thousand tenge.
As for explanatory work, during the action 458 materials were published on garden instruments.
At the end of 2014, the share of production in industry increased to 11%.
Dmitry Timofeevich is a holder of the Order of the Patriotic War of the 1st degree and 13 anniversary medals.
90% of them were sent over the Internet, consumers recorded the recipient's phone number.
The participants of the meeting got acquainted with the assessments of international observers from 37 countries and 7 international organizations.
at international olympiads gifted children of our region won 52 medals of various dignity.
industrial production in the Valihan region increased by 27%, in manufacturing - by 22%, in mining - by 59%.
The poster contest "Your voice is your future" started on March 17th.
the new enterprise will produce 30 thousand tons of caustic soda and 26 thousand tons of chlorine per year.
So, according to the Center for Social Partnership, the index of social stability amounted to 70% and exceeded the 2013 figure by 12%.
Including to eliminate three-shift schools, 3 schools were built, instead of emergency - 2 schools.
According to the results of last year, the volume of trade between Russia and Kazakhstan and Belarus amounted to 60 billion dollars. last year , the russian trade with kazakhstan and belarus amounted to almost 60 billion dollars .
From January to December 2014, monthly wages amounted to 6.4%.
Taking into account all social facilities and residential buildings in the region, 127 objects are being built. in general 127 social facilities are being built in our area .
students from 32 countries of the world where Turkic peoples live study there.
According to the Vice Minister, 17 thousand of them are higher and 18 thousand are technical vocational education.
The pre-school institution with 140 seats is equipped with modern requirements.
In the current academic year, 293 children from other nationalities are studying in Kazakh classes.
In 2014, electronic services were in high demand - 75.5%.
According to the Governor's Office, it is possible to freeze up to 8 tons of fish per day.
in the future, Kazakhstan's financial hubs should be among the 20 leading financial centers in the world.
From the beginning of the year, memoranda were signed with 747 enterprises, 31 thousand people were employed.
investments in new investment projects at production enterprises amounted to 15% or 181.8 billion tenge.
This is a difficult 23 years when the people of Kazakhstan held on to their heads.
today 247 participants of the Great Patriotic War and disabled people live in the region.
To enter the 30 most developed countries of the world, we must solve this issue optimally.
Recall that Taikazan is the main symbol of the action "20 good deeds."
Pavel Barilchenko for more than 20 years was the director of Peter and Paul secondary school No. 21.
If in 1990 it amounted to 65%, then in 2018 it is expected 45%.
yield is 520 tons per day.
The Organization of Islamic Cooperation (until 2011 - the organization of the Islamic Conference) was established in 1969.
health facilities are equipped with medical equipment worth more than 58 million tenge.
19 steps - effective measures to modernize the judicial system and law enforcement agencies.
Also, 88% of youth noted that their friends consist of representatives of different nationalities.
He noted that by the end of the year it is planned to introduce 15 projects with an investment volume of 9 billion tenge.
central hospital - 212 places, polyclinic hospital - 500 people per shift.
Phase 1 of the construction of a 21 MW wind farm in Zhambyl region (9 MW) has been completed.
According to the Statistics Department of East Kazakhstan region, 578 families received new housing as a result.
By 2030, the volume of investments will be 22.8 billion.
it is also planned to establish work experience in the judiciary for at least 5 years.
at the same time, the growth of livestock in 2014 will be about 102.9%.
through screening studies, more than 70% of TB patients are identified at an early stage.
Today in the capital celebrate Victory Day, May 9 we participate in the anniversary parade in Moscow.
According to the akim, 417 residents of demolished houses received new housing.
Samruk-kazyna plans to spend 600 million tenge on the implementation of events within this campaign.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
Including in 16 yards a children's playground will be created.
The Bureau also submitted proposals to the agenda of the meeting of the Chamber of April 2, 2015.
Pyotr Fedorovich was born on November 28, 1926 in the village of Novonikolskoye, Priishimsky district, North Kazakhstan region.
This is the way to implement the Strategy 2050 and Nұrly Zhol programs.
In 2015, Capital Day will be held under the motto "Capital - a city of peace and harmony."
Currently, 56 States with a population of 1.5 billion are members of the board.
Mayor of Almaty region reports to the population on February 2, 4, 6, 7 and 9.
More than 800 thousand people will take part in this exhibition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
Including exports with eurozone countries increased by 45%, imports grew by 56%.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
As previously reported, a total of 178 mobilization groups consisting of 441 employees have been created in Kazakhstan.
The memorial mausoleum on Warsaw's Zhwirka and Wigura Street was opened in 1950.
The opening of the facility made it possible to provide permanent employment for 45 villagers.
There are 54 private kindergartens, of which 16 kindergartens were opened in 2014.
next year, given the presence of two poultry farms, the region will produce 100 million eggs per year.
The head of state declared 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
of which 70% was financed by a national fund, the remaining 30% was provided by private business.
Last year, the dance had 0.7 economically active population, which amounted to 63 thousand people. last year , we had 0.7 % of the economically active population quota , it was 63 thousand people .
It is worth noting that today 24 new pilot adaptation programs are being developed by foreign partner universities.
According to the local authorities, 5 billion 700 million tenge was allocated for the provision of social support.
Currently, akk is working in 13 investment projects, "the report said.
At the beginning of the year he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
In all 10 districts of Zhambyl region and the city of Shu, business support centers have been opened. all 10 districts of zhambyl region , as well as shu city have entrepreneurs support centers .
According to the head of the department, the number of Kazakh akbass cows has increased by 50% in Kazakhstan.
limit tariffs will be completed this year, 3300 MW of electricity will be additionally launched in Kazakhstan. rates are completed this year , after that rates kazakhstan will introduce about 3300 mw of electricity .
it is planned to build 15 industrial facilities on 200 hectares, "he said.
The implementation of 5 institutional reforms has begun, commissions and working groups have been created. we have started to implement 5 institutional reforms , we have set up commissions and working groups .
According to the regional Governor's Office, 84 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for these purposes.
Note that the 2017 world exhibition is the "energy of the future."
Recall that in 1997, Kazakhstan adopted the law "On Languages ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan" on the development of languages.
4 illegal acts concerning the constitutional right of persons of unlimited environment have been violated and amended.
After the war, he participated in Japanese battles, returned to his homeland only in 1946.
The needs of 42 thousand retail investors were satisfied, which is 72% of all invested shares.
the share of bilateral trade turnover in the total trade turnover of our country increased by 20%.
At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan registered 168 media representatives from 37 states.
During the event, paratroopers of the reconnaissance company of the military unit 27943 demonstrated the reliability of Kazakh soldiers.
According to the mayor, this year the amount of funds for the development of the district will increase and amount to 9 billion tenge.
According to him, the production of renewable commercial oil will begin in the second half of 2016.
A new national plan of action for human rights until 2020 was to be developed in the near future.
According to the first deputy akim of the region, the love of bigeldiyas, 8 billion tenge was allocated for the heating season of 2014-2015.
Since the beginning of 2014, two consultants of the Entrepreneurship Support Center have given 536 consultations for 272 people.
According to him, the program includes 343 specialties and the bulk of technical specialties.
this is 52% of voters abroad, "Sarzhanov said at a briefing at the CEC.
It is also planned to build a kindergarten for 80 places in three or more villages.
At the end of 2014, the share of the company's purchases amounted to 3.9 trillion tenge. by the end of 2014 the volume of group purchasing fund totaled 3.9 trillion tenge .
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the construction of this enterprise was started in 2010 together with the Republic of Belarus.
Since 2000, the energy efficiency of gross domestic product in Kazakhstan has amounted to 1.5% per year.
In addition, this is 66% of the city's revenue, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
in the future, 100 billion tenge will be allocated for this area annually.
thus, language training would be reduced from 18 to 12 months for quota categories.
in fact, as of May 25, 141 objects had been withdrawn, of which 74 were sold.
The forum will be attended by representatives of 200 railway administrations and international transport logistics companies.
In 2015, it is planned to launch 10 investment projects with the creation of 720 jobs for 15.0 billion tenge
A meeting between the head of state and the president of Total, Patrick Panan, is scheduled for April 14, "the report said.
I think that by May 9 the akims will provide housing for the remaining veterans, "S. Zhakupov said.
The region's share in the republican volume of agricultural production is 10%, "the akim said.
Recall, on April 13, the reception of documents for the award of the international scholarship "Bolashak" began.
Also, Adilbek Dzhaksybekov visited gymnasium No. 6 named after Yuri Gurov.
in Pavlodar region within the framework of the special economic zone "Pavlodar" 6 projects are actively implemented.
video anthology consists of a short 8-10 documentary film lasting 70 minutes in Kazakh and Russian.
industrial production amounted to 649.1 billion tenge and increased by 2.1% compared to 2013.
300 million tenge was allocated from the budget for these purposes, preparatory work has now begun.
He returned from the war in February 1946, "- shared a.dauitbaev.
The regular meeting of the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Council will be held in May 2015 in Kazakhstan.
The event is dedicated to the Eurasian Economic Union (eao), launched on January 1, 2015.
Here, as part of the smart school project, constant control is carried out, about 30 video cameras are installed.
throughout the country, we annually allocate 35 thousand grants for free education in universities.
According to the report, 1 million 250 thousand tenge is provided for emergency response measures in the Stepnogorsk region.
Of these, for 2015, 30 billion tenge provided by the national fund were allocated for the development of social infrastructure.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 98 representatives of the media from 19 states.
the work done had reduced the number of documents required by 50 per cent. the works that were done enables to cut the list of the required documents almost by 50 % .
now we have created a team in the republic, we will have about 10 thousand observers.
On February 6 of this year, the action "20 good deeds" started.
It is approved by the sign "May 9, 1941-1945. - Victory Day."
In fact, as of May 14, 138 objects were released, of which 70 were implemented.
This year alone, the regional coordinating council approved 16 projects for a total amount of loans of 900 million tenge.
A roadmap for transformation for the next 3 years has already been approved in detail for all companies.
This issue will be considered on February 6 at a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council at the level of heads of government.
To date, 7 million Kazakhstanis, that is, 1,150 settlements, have been covered by gas. 7 million of the kazakhstani people ( 1150 settlements ) are connected to the gas supply .
among the enterprises liquidated during this period, the number of men amounted to 62 people, women - 19 people.
During the solemn event, 450 kha projects were launched, of which 11 were at the republican level.
It is worth noting that in 2014, 505 veterans turned to the public reception of the Nұr Otan party.
train of my Kazakhstan, "which will be presented at 29 stations of the country.
they sold goods for 303.6 billion tenge, which is 1.9% more than in January-November 2013.
To provide public services to villagers, 830 employees of these organizations are involved.
Today in Kazakhstan, according to the statistics agency, the average monthly salary is 100 thousand tenge.
As the Minister noted, diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Macedonia account for 20 years.
In a few years, we will increase cargo turnover to 20 million tons, "the head of state added.
75% of the costs are at the stage of commissioning the facility, "he added.
1) the length of the connecting structure of tec-2-tec-1 with the pumping station do 1000 20.8 kilometers;
the value of the asset increased by 2% of the initial trade prices, the institute was sold by 503.7 million tenge.
In the period from 2005 to 2014, amzha was paid from the national budget in the amount of 6.9 billion tenge.
The number of subsidized projects increased 1.4 times compared to 2013, "the report said.
At the end of the year, it is planned to commission 1 lane between the capital's mentemirtau and the Almaty-Kapchagai route, "he said.
3) regulations on the commission for awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of literature and art;
In 2015, it is planned to provide loans in the amount of 35.2 billion tenge for microcredit products. in 2015 , 35.2 billion tenge is planned to be allocated .
Since this year, we must save $250 million on such shipments. this year , we are going to save about 250 million dollars .
According to the head of the regional department of economy and budget planning N. Satybaldina, it is planned to purchase 100 apartments for orphans worth 646.9 million tenge from the budget.
It should be noted that on February 6, 2015 all events dedicated to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be launched.
Also, export of products amounted to 9.1 billion tenge, which amounted to 4.2 billion tenge in 2014.
About 18.5 thousand jobs were created, 1,800 people underwent retraining and advanced training.
The Central Election Commission carries out accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations until April 20, 2015.
For example, by a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the program "Road Map for the Development of Tourism in the Republic of Kazakhstan - 2020" was approved.
the forecast is 3 trillion 219 billion tenge or 940 billion tenge less than the previous forecast.
Thanks to the work of all, our country has become one of the 50 most developed states in the world, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the production capacity of the Sarybulak poultry farm is 20,000 tons of poultry meat per year.
In general, last year 111 people received loans in the amount of 270 million tenge.
this train serves 17 medical rooms equipped with modern equipment.
In addition, 168 representatives of mass media of 37 states are registered in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
However, this stopped the process of industrialization in 7 regions of the country, "he said.
Purchase and sale agreement for 49% of Transtelecom JSC shares was signed.
In 2014, optimal indicators are observed in all areas of the socio-economic sphere of the city. in 2014 , the positive trend in the industry , attracting investment , construction , trade and communications was observed in all areas of social and economic development of the city .
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan also registered 98 media representatives from 19 States.
1,248 entrepreneurs received 3,474 different services to enhance entrepreneurial capacity.
In general, in 2015 2016, the kazatomprom planned to implement 6 projects.
In 1944 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
small projects - SME facilities - do not amount to more than 4 million aces.
Only in 4 regions there are projects that have not received financial assistance for individual entrepreneurs.
3 . The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take the necessary measures to implement this decree within one month.
of those interviewed and career guidance, 6529 people applied for participation in the program, 443 people in the project.
it is also more expensive in Astana - 303 thousand tenge-1 square meter, in Almaty - 287 thousand tenge, in Astana - 271 thousand tenge.
in Kazakhstan, about 200 dairy processing plants with a capacity of more than 2 million tons per year produce dairy products.
the company is located in a good area and covers an area of ​ ​ 33 hectares.
In 2015-2016, the amount of funds allocated from the National Fund for housing and construction amounted to 150 billion tenge, "said the Vice Minister.
The volume of production in 2009 amounted to 282 billion tenge, the target indicator in 2015 is set at 588 billion tenge.
The state allocated money, carried out infrastructure, and in 2010 the first fleet was fully ready for commissioning.
In 2015, the coalition raised a number of projects supported by the UN.
405 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for its construction, and the contractor was allocated to Stroytekhkollekt LLP, the report said.
At the end of 1941, the division was formed in the Akmola region.
In 2015, the task was set to reduce the energy intensity of wool by 10%, in 2020 - by 25%.
11 students took first place, 15 - second, 18 - third, 10 students received certificates of honor.
At the same time, the share of scientists under 35 years old is 38%, up to 45 years old - 56%.
In second place is the production of crude oil and natural gas - by 21%, to 26.8 billion dollars.
According to him, this year 96 projects totaling 60 billion tenge were selected for implementation.
this is approximately 1 trillion tenge and 5.5 billion dollars.
In 2017, this kindergarten will be commissioned if the company works further after receiving the consent of the relevant ministry.
The state allocated 11 billion tenge for the implementation of the employment program 2020, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
production uses efficient technologies, the planned annual capacity of 1000 tons of products.
Expenses under the program of development and integration of the transport infrastructure system in Kazakhstan until 2030 are optimized by 7%. under the state program of development and infrastructure integration of the kazakhstan 's transport system till 2030 will be optimized by 7 % .
The report notes that participants in the friendship festival and singers of ethnocultural associations sing in 16 languages.
On March 20, a trilateral meeting of the Presidents of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation is planned in the capital.
According to E. Tarasenko, the number of women in the majilis of parliament reached 26%.
for military merits, "30 years of the army and navy," "for the victory over Germany."
At the end of 2015, 424 km of roads are expected to be commissioned.
trade turnover in wholesale trade amounted to 340.6 billion tenge and increased by 140% compared to 2013.
Last year, 1 billion 445 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
20 export and operational cargoes have already passed in this direction. over the past period more than 20 container trains with export and transit freights have proceeded on this route .
On the day of the parade, 70 aviation units of the Kazakh air force will rise into the air.
On April 12, 1961, the Vostok spacecraft was launched with the first pilot Yuri Gagarin.
The implementation of the project in the first direction of the employment program 2020 will create 20 new jobs.
As of April 1 of this year, pensions and benefits have been assigned to 99 applicants.
If 78 applications are withdrawn, 38 applications are sent for revision, "the report said.
About 50 billion tenge will be allocated to support exporters, 10 billion tenge - to support helicopter manufacturers, 5 billion tenge - to passenger cars.
optimization of the national budget is 9% of the total volume. the average optimization of the republican budget 's outgo will be about 9 percent of the total expenditure .
The company implements the projects within 2 years, "he said.
In 2014, 25.9% of the population of the region were those who engage in mass sports.
Kazakhstan is one of two states that hope to host the Olympic Games in 2022.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the regional specialized house of the child is designed for 60 places.
In 2011-2014, the National Scientific Medical Center provided assistance to 65 patients from abroad.
The number of unemployed, according to estimates, in December 2014 amounted to 458.8 thousand people, the unemployment rate - 5.0%. the number of unemployed in december 2014 amounted to 458.8 thousand people .
Recall that the marathon-action "Honor of Victory" will end on January 15.
Currently, observers of foreign states, international organizations and representatives of foreign gardens are accredited, in total - 630 people.
This year Almaty took a new baton - "Capital of Islamic Culture 2015."
The order of relations is planned to be adopted in the first half of 2015.
In addition, at the meeting, the head of the region shared plans for the further development of cross-border cooperation for 2015.
As of April 24 of the current year, 481 applicants were assigned a pension and benefits.
According to updated information in November 2014, the project cost will be $38 billion, "the minister said.
In general, according to him, as of December 1, 2014 population reached 17,397,2 thousand people.
in Zhanakorgan rural district opened a kindergarten for 50 places.
The volume of agreements planned in March will amount to 18 billion dollars, "said A. Issekeshev.
Currently, the commission is considering 72 applications for another 109 objects, he said.
The "blocking" of the city by 30 substations immediately increased the energy consumption of Almaty, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The Council, created in accordance with the Strategy of the Head of State 2050, "should radically work to eliminate corruption.
So, in 2015 it is planned to build schools for 14.3 billion tenge, in 2016 - for 23.09 billion tenge, in 2017 - for 24.5 billion tenge.
In 2009, the couple created a special international committee and announced the choice of the best project.
The complete modernization of the plant, which will be carried out without stopping current production, will be completed in 2017.
Also, according to the Governor's office, 28 forest users work in the city.
It is reported that from March 15, "shuttle trains" will be put into commercial operation.
in 2012 - 14, in 2013 - 31, in 2014 - 24, and in 2015 - 4.
It is expected that the facility will be commissioned in 2016, "the report said.
the construction of a feedlot (1,750 cattle per year) was also completed.
Recall, on December 30, 2014, the marathon campaign "Victory Honor" started in the capital.
So, about 2,000 project participants study in 25 educational institutions and 8 universities in 8 regions.
Having survived difficult days, Anna Tikhonovna honestly fulfilled her duty to her homeland and successfully returned to the country on November 13, 1945.
At the time of the start of the war with the Nazis, I was a 14-year-old teenager. "
the head of the medical organization of the region has the right to improve the qualifications of up to 10 percent of employees per year.
in our center, 100 people are in line for a heart transplant.	near 100 people are in list for transplantation at the national scientific cardiac surgery center .	3,20
At the end of 1942 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.	in late 1942 , a young graduate of the medical college called up for military service into the soviet army .	3,20
Trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Thailand in January-November 2014 amounted to 128.4 million dollars.	according to the ministry of foreign affairs , the trade turnover between kazakhstan and thailand in january-november 2014 amounted to 128.4 million dollars .	3,20
More than 3 billion people consume mobile technology created in the oval.	about 3 billion people use mobile technology , developed in oulu .	3,20
Today we conduct the next training, in which 230 pieces of equipment are involved.	today we perform regular exercise ; 230 pieces of equipment will be used in the parade of mechanized column .	3,20
In 2014, 2758 calls were made to the emergency site.	thus , according to the department in 2014 2758 trips were made .	3,20
the domestic enterprise produces 15 million liters of herbicides per year, which has European quality.	the domestic enterprise produces 15 million liters of herbicides annually , which are of european quality .	3,20
the total cost of the project is more than 1 billion tenge, the area of ​ ​ the greenhouse complex is 3 hectares.	the total project cost is more than 1 billion tenge , the area of the greenhouse complex is 3 hectares .	3,20
Early elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held on April 26 of this year.	as reported earlier snap presidential elections scheduled on april 26 .	3,20
On May 9, the head of state will take part in a solemn ceremony dedicated to Victory Day in Moscow.	may 9 the president of kazakhstan takes part in the festivities dedicated to the victory day in moscow .	3,20
5) construction of an esculin drainage (water conduit) with a length of 800 kilomts;	5 ) construction yeskulinsky pe conduit dn 800 length of 7.5 km ;	3,21
The business delegation from Singapore includes the heads of 10 companies: leung kai fok medical, megaton shipping pte ltd, rutledge, arise global, kenetics innovations pte ltd.	singaporean side is represented by 10 members of the business delegation - heads of companies such as leung kai fook medical , megaton shipping pte ltd , rutledge , arise global , kenetics innovations pte ltd .	3,21
this institution has been operating since 1953.	it should be noted that the building , which will house the institution , was built in 1953 .	3,21
- On April 17, 2015, the city competition of masters of art training named after Oralkhan Bokei;	- april 17 , 2015 - competition of recitation named after oralkhan bokey ;	3,21
To develop the physical culture of the population, 15 sports grounds were built in cities and districts.	15 sports fields for the development of physical culture of the population were built in the towns and districts .	3,21
This year, about 180 thousand stands from 10 countries were installed at the exhibition.	according to the  nc " astana expo-2017 " jsc , about 10 thousand different stands from more than 180 countries worldwide have been presented this year .
State support measures within the framework of the Agribusiness Program 2020 are not only preserved, but also significantly increased.
according to him, he, like all kha members, made his choice back in 1991.
K.Mami reported to the Head of State on the results of the activities of the courts for 2014.
In 2016, this will be the first class, in 2017 - the second class, we will update the entire program. in 2016 it will be the first form , the second form will be in 2017 and gradually we will update all programs , " the minister said .
The reporting meeting of the Governor of the region will be held on February 18, 2015 in the Palace of Culture named after Estay.
The Eurasian National University at the event was represented by 23 people, 6 of them received good indicators.
1,003 or 73.8 per cent of the 1,359 persons who have completed youth practice are employed in permanent employment.
In 1943 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
150 thousand tenge for each person, that is, 25 people can see the burial place of relatives.
97.9% of cereals or 4 million 14 thousand Ha.
Cooperation with Belgium is carried out in the framework of a memorandum signed in 2010.
Already today, 500 volunteers expressed a desire to take part in the exhibition.
According to the regional Governor's Office, 100 projects will be subsidized at an interest rate.
Currently, 306 passenger cars, 290 diesel locomotives and 26 electric locomotives worth 280 billion tenge have been opened by the cluster.
4 years ago, the company delivered 2000 thousand cattle.
In the capital's scientific center of motherhood and childhood, 14 thousand patients receive medical care. more than 14 thousand patients will receive medical care at the center for maternity and childhood in astana .
2015 will be a big risk for the Eurasian Economic Union, a year of huge challenges.
According to the press service of the Senate, the agreement was concluded on October 31, 2011 in Hanoi.
This will allow to supply up to 6 GW of electricity to China. it will allow us to transfer up to 6 gw of electricity to china .
Katar solar has a plant with a capacity of 300 megawatts for the production of solar cells.
In Amsterdam, it was decided to hold the World Cup in 2017 in Kazakhstan.	it was decided to host the first world mma championship in 2017 in kazakhstan .	3,22
I instruct to increase this figure to 100 million tenge, - said East Kazakhstan region.
Born in 1911 in the Sarysu district of the Zhambyl region.
In 1955, he supervised the construction of the city's oldest fire station on Turkestan Street in Shymkent.
Since 2009, the subsidy of the region for all farms has increased by 8 times.
Mayor of Almaty outlined the main tasks to be completed in 2015.
To date, more than 700 permits have been issued for business representatives in Kazakhstan.
90% of young people are satisfied with the absence of ethnocultural and linguistic barriers in the country.
For this, 15 educational institutions have been deployed on the territory of the department, the Ministry of Defense said.
first of all, the sea, chernozem, kashagan, whose oil reserves exceed 1 billion tons of oil equivalent.
in my election program, I talked about 5 institutional reforms.	however , the head of state mentioned the 5 institutional reforms .	3,23
in the village of Akay, 300 children aged 3 to 6 years are in line for kindergarten.	there are 300 children aged 3-6 years in akay who are waiting for the place in the kindergartens .	3,23
now teenagers serve in military unit 44813 and begin to learn complex military science.	now they will serve in the military unit 44813 , hard to know military science .	3,23
The total amount of private investments amounted to 12 million US dollars.	the amount of private investment is about 12 million dollars ,  akhmetzhan yessimov said .
when reaching the design capacity, the number of employees of the plant will be 764 people.
Funds were allocated from the government fund for the construction of 23 roads, 7 water pipelines and 3 bridges.
Our country, which first laid down Strategy 2030, is now striving for Strategy 2050.
35 companies took part in the nomination "gold quality" from Aktobe region.
According to caf (charity aid fondation), in 2014 Kazakhstan took 101st place out of 135 countries of the world charity rating.
2015 is the year of CIS veterans.
we plan that about 1000 people will come to the prize from Russia.	about 1000 guests from russia will come to the ceremony .	3,24
The construction of the Astana-temirtau road is planned to be completed at the end of 2016.
this is an absolute record since 1977, "the publication reports.
repair work was carried out as part of the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020."
The fact that 2015 was the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan indicates that this year is special.
- Almat-kokshetau No. 151/152 will leave Almaty on March 21, 2015, from Almaty on March 23, 2015;
Compared to February 1, 2014, the population increased by 252.3 thousand people or 1.5%.
According to the company's management, by 2020, entrepreneurship plans to reach full capacity.
Another 25 Siberian Christmas trees will be planted next week, "the Governor of the region said.
Over the past 5 months, 8 productions on military topics have been released here.
their launch will begin on May 6 on the Capital TV channel and kaharman.kz website.
54 projects with investments of 147 billion tenge are being implemented in the industrial park zone.
the share of document circulation in the Kazakh language in state bodies amounted to 98%.
over the past 20 years, about a thousand healthcare facilities have been built in the republic.
Since May 2014 - Chairman of the Board of Kazavtodor.
355 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the construction and equipment of schools.	355 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for this project .	3,24
In 2014, the North Kazakhstan region ensured the growth of all macroeconomic indicators.	in 2014 , the growth of all macroeconomic indicators was ensured in north-kazakhstan region .	3,24
the number of preschool organizations increased by 124 units and amounted to 825 units.	the number of pre-school organizations increased by 124 units and amounted to 825 units .	3,24
As the Governor's office noted, 144 million tenge was spent on installation and installation of elevators.	the costs for the purchase and installation of lifts made 144 million tenge .	3,24
Overhaul and construction costs are 48 per cent.	the share of costs associated with the construction and repair of buildings and structures is 48 % .	3,25
Last year, 3 schools with 3,600 seats and a kindergarten with 240 seats were opened in the Yesilsky district.
the total number of voters to date has reached 50 thousand people, "said D. Sauletov.
according to the previous scheme, ocean-air delivered cargo from 23 to 30 days.
In 2014, 692.6 million tenge was allocated and used for the implementation of the program "Business Road Map 2020."
In addition, under the program "Development of single-industry towns in 2012-2020," 744 million tenge was allocated to subsidize interest on loans.
thus, 50 or more than 1800 out of 30% of thousands of requirements for entrepreneurial activity were reduced.
The capacity of the station is 21 MW, of which 9 MW have been commissioned to date.
Kazakhstan's export potential will be from 1350 to 2100 MW, the deputy said.
According to the project, launched at the beginning of 2014, the animated film consists of 104 parts.
The region received 100 most talented schoolchildren, the Governor's office of the region reported.
Governor of the region nurlan nogayev has already presented the first medals to 30 veterans.
To preserve this development, an additional budget increase of 20 billion tenge is envisaged, "said Musakhanov.
In 2014, the Samruk-kazyna group of companies allocated 130 million tenge to veterans and disabled people.
in this case, according to preliminary estimates, the economy of Kazakhstan in 2014 increased by 4.3%. against this background , according to preliminary estimates , kazakhstan 's economy grew by 4.3 % in 2014 .
The total length of the road is 81 km, of which 41 km is carried out by synohydro corporation limited.
today 40 entrepreneurs have arrived from the capital to cooperate with Czech entrepreneurs.
many countries have achieved what has been lacking even in 100 years, in just 23 years.
As part of the program "Nұrly zhol" 686 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund in 2015.
enterprises of the special economic zone attracted 29 billion tenge and produced 223 billion tenge.
there are 350 trading places and one and a half thousand jobs.
capital spending will be reduced by 18%, to US $1.3 billion.
equipment is leased for a period of 10 years in the amount of 6 percent per annum.	equipment is available for lease for 10 years at 6 % per annum .	3,25
In February 1942, Zaichenko Ivan Afanasevich was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.	zaichenko ivan afanasievich was drafted into the red army in february 1942 .	3,25
At its own expense, the company purchased 9 pieces of equipment and 3 cars worth 593 million tenge.	9 pieces of equipment and 3 cars in the amount of 593 million tenge were bought at their own expense .	3,25
There are various circles with 320 auditoriums.	the facility includes the auditorium for 320 seats and various hobby sections .	3,25
Currently, Pobeda LLP has 25 sowing complexes.
According to the Vice Minister, 137.4 billion tenge will be additionally allocated from the republican budget in 2017.
He noted that the volume of industrial production in 2014 amounted to 76.7 billion tenge.
On December 24, the first meeting of the council will be held with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of the NPP of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aulai Myrzakhmetov.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the length of the gas pipeline was 92 km.
This figure increased by 25% thanks to state support.
secondly, the structure of institutional reforms is enshrined in the plan "100 concrete steps of statehood."
At the same time, 90% of all administrative offenses were identified by police officers.
Currently there are 50 joint ventures of Kazakhstan and Hungary.
More than 900 enterprises of the region cooperate with Russia in foreign economic activity.
To date, 386 regional projects receive state subsidies in the amount of 28 billion tenge.
and under the Aktobe-Atyrau-Astrakhan project, Asian and Islamic banks will raise $960 million.
130 of the most interesting paintings were selected from the participants in the creation of this banner.
353 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the construction of sub-schools, which has been held since last year.
In 1998, we promised you to make every effort to ensure the prosperity of our country. in 1998 we promised you to make every effort for the prosperity of our country .
7 months for initial military training.
Insufficient immunity among the population of Kazakhstan led to an outbreak of measles in 2014.
In general, over the past 5 years, trade with eurozone countries has grown by 53%.
- No. 156/155 of Karaganda-Zhezkazgan, Karaganda March 20 and 24, 2015, Izzhazgan March 21 and 25, 2015.
In 2014, branches of its own trading network were opened in 15 regions of the Russian Federation.
The decision shall enter into force within 30 calendar days after the official publication of the document.
then I was 18 years old, "said Maria Ivanovna.
90 people will work at the enterprise (of which 90% will be attracted from the local population).
This year it is planned to increase production to 50 million units.
200 new jobs will be created when the plant is fully entered.
tuberculosis incidence and mortality have decreased in the country over the past 10 years.
20% of the costs for the construction of sturgeon fisheries. in the amount of 20 % we offset the costs for the construction of fishing activities for breeding sturgeon .
of these, 65 polling stations opened in the representative offices of the Republic of Kazakhstan in foreign countries. this number includes 65 polling stations which will be opened at the offices of the republic of kazakhstan in foreign countries .
Compared to the same period in 2013, the volume of transported goods increased by 10%.
the total value of legalized property today exceeds 2 billion tenge.	to date , total amount of legalized property amounted to over 2 billion tenge .	3,26
in this regard, by the decree of Nursultan Nazarbayev, this year 2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	in this context , 2015 year declared as the year of the apk by corresponding decree of nursultan nazarbayev .	3,26
according to the results of the meeting of the commission - 53 facilities, residential institutions - 13, unused - 40.	following the meeting , commissions legalized 53 objects : residential - 13 , lease - 40 .	3,26
it included 23 business initiatives totaling more than $2.8 billion.	it includes 23 business initiatives totaling more than 2.8 billion dollars .	3,26
The relevant documents on registration of 375 CIS observers have been submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.	the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan filed documents for accreditation of 375 observers from the cis .	3,26
The investment company has invested 197 million tenge in the implementation of this project.	the investment company aes , including the sogrinky tpp invested 197 million tenge in this project .	3,26
Governor of Saryarkinsky district Ermaganbet Bulekpayev will meet with residents of the district on February 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.	mayor of  saryarka " district ermaganbet bulekpayev will meet with the residents of the district on 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 february .
in addition, 65 polling stations were opened in the missions of the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign countries.
So, recently, 253 educational and preschool institutions have been opened in the region.
In only three years, 18 objects were built in the city. over the recent years 18 facilities were built in this area .
For 22 years, values ​ ​ have been formed that unite all Kazakhstanis. "
in the West Kazakhstan region - 108 appeals.
in this direction, 470 million tenge will be allocated for the complete improvement of one microdistrict.
today, according to the Department of Statistics, 23,600 unemployed people are registered in the city.
renewable and alternative energy sources in Thailand account for 6 per cent of total consumption.
their volume grew by 8.7% and amounted to 115 billion tenge, "said Yerik Sultanov.
About 200 children from all over the region came to the traditional holiday.
This year it is planned to catch 7,212 tons of fish in the island sea itself.
I wish you good health, advanced training and courage in 2015.
Today, 79 potential projects totaling 119 billion tenge are in the investment portfolio of the region.
In the Karaganda region, 18 residents of the village of Karakuga, Abai district, returned home. in the karaganda region 18 residents of karagoga , abay district returned to their homes .
Since 2013, free medical care has been provided for residents of Zhambyl region.
Half of the 1 million 200 thousand of our fellow countrymen who went to war died on the front square.
The theme of the 2015 competition is "Residential quarter for a cold climate - the capital, Kazakhstan."
in addition, 160 flights per day are currently being made at the airport of the capital.
according to him, at the same time 100 specific steps will help in its implementation.
this is not a guarantee of the state and financing in the amount of 7 million tenge for each candidate. these guarantee that the state provides funding ( 7 million tenge for each candidate ) .
At the same time, labor productivity in the manufacturing industry increased by almost 60%.
Since March 26, 15 thousand materials have been published on the topic of elections, "said K. Turgankulov.
It is planned that on April 13, the President of Kazakhstan will receive the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Javad Zarif. it is planned that on april 13 the president of kazakhstan will receive minister of foreign affairs of iran mohammad javad zarif .
It is noted that 150 Chinese entrepreneurs and 170 domestic entrepreneurs took part in the negotiations.
According to the ministry, in 2014, 545 people from 90 universities took part in the competition.
This year, a lot of work has been done to prepare the program until 2020. for this year we developed drafts of the program till 2020 .
trade turnover between Almaty and France in 2014 amounted to about 400 million dollars.
Recall that the system has been introduced since the beginning of 2014.
According to this document, the presidential election should be held on April 26, 2015.
To date, more than 2,000 people serve in these troops.
three and a half astronomical hours (210 minutes).
To date, 26 subsidiaries and affiliates have already been introduced into the competitive environment.
Over the past 20 years, the country has undergone major changes and continues to develop.
For 10 years, the state and its capital have been significantly developed, "said the ex-ambassador
6 . This decree is effective from January 1, 2015 and is subject to official publication.
The national budget expenditure optimization averaged 9 per cent of gross domestic product.
Over the past 10 years, the company has invested more than 420 million dollars in Kazakhstan.
620 agricultural fairs were held, food products worth 2.2 billion tenge were sold.
30 native languages of ethnic groups will be taught in 190 Sunday schools of ethnocultural associations.
It is planned to build 11 new facilities in the healthcare sector, "the head of state said.
Dossayev noted that this year the structure of financing has not changed within the allocation of 100 billion tenge.
The bill required amendments and additions to 90 articles of the new Code.
According to the minister, the ski base of the city of Schuchinsk will meet visitors on January 1, 2016.
Today, the country has 10 high-precision gas production facilities. today the country has 10 main producers of liquefied natural gas .
Over 5 years, its steady growth will be 13-15%, "said the deputy.
5) the composition of the commission for awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of literature and art;
So, 244 veterans of the Second World War from 14 regions of Kazakhstan and Almaty came to the capital for a procession.
It is worth noting that 66 new jobs will be created for the implementation of the project.
new enterprises produced products worth 4 trillion tenge and exported products worth 628 billion tenge.
Over the past day alone, 575 houses have been cleaned of meltwater.
the company plans to produce 5 thousand cubic meters of wood per year.
The funds of the national fund will allow to further prolong the obligations of the bank entities by 200 billion tenge.
The design capacity of the Makinsky poultry farm is 60 thousand tons of live mass.
Thus, the volume of industrial production in January-February of this year amounted to 263 billion tenge. so , the production volume of manufactures for january-february of current year made 263 billion tenge .
It is planned that today more than 9 million 514 thousand voters will put their ballots in a box.
Retail turnover amounted to 153.5 billion tenge and increased by 14% compared to 2013.
On January 1 of next year, the treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union will enter into force. the treaty on the eurasian economic union will come into force from january 1 next year .
It is planned to bring 1610 units of new agricultural equipment, "said S. Plotnikov.
Also, the first wind power plant with a capacity of 45 MW will be launched in the Areymentau region.
the height of the incomparable drilling rig is 51 meters, capacity 650 tons.
Recall, on April 26, Kazakhstan will hold presidential elections.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 134 representatives of foreign media from 31 states.
In 2015, we plan to hold additional competitions and add another 150 km.
As the deputy noted, 500 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for the "Nұrly zhol" program.
During the year, more than 142 thousand people were covered by various types of social support.
ha - 20 good deeds - the Taikazan relay race returned to the capital, traveling around all regions of our state.
Residents of the capital showed special attention at polling station No. 89 in the National Academic Library.
In 2018, the sown area in the country will amount to 22.5 million hectares.
In addition, this year it is planned to build 107 new kindergartens and mini-centers in the region.
The project is planned to be implemented in stages over 100 years on 3-4 thousand hectares of land.
It is planned that the share of Kazakhstan's content of expo facilities will be 60%.
It should be noted that the day of unity has been celebrated since 1996.
A comprehensive employment promotion plan will be approved in all regions of Kazakhstan by March 15 this year. the comprehensive plans of promotion of employment will be approved in all regions of kazakhstan until march 15 this year .
currently there are more than 1 million Kazakhstanis in the industry. to date , the total number of kazakhstani people working in the industry exceeds 1 million people .
their own funds - 500 million tenge, the rest - borrowed.
I participate in the May 9 parade in Moscow, so I decided. i decided that i will participate in the victory parade in moscow on may 9 .
one of them is a sergeant of the 2nd class of the military unit 35804.
According to experts, in 2015 oil prices will be restored.
In the second direction of the program in 2014, state support measures in the amount of 35.4 billion tenge were provided.
it currently comprises 161 companies from 39 countries on five continents.
4918 business entities will be involved in the month and subbotnik in the region.
It is worth noting that the innovative activity of enterprises increased by 4%.
In 30 pilot schools of the republic in the 2015-2016 academic year, we begin testing educational programs and standards. we begin approbation of the standard and educational programs in 30 leading schools of the republic in 2015-2016 academic year .
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 98 representatives of the media from 19 states.
In 2015, the Zhezkazgan-Baineu and beam-shubarkul lines were commissioned.	in 2015 , the lines shubarkol - arkalyk , kazakhstan - turkmenistan - iran were commissioned .	3,29
In 2015, it is planned to recruit a total of 30 thousand Kazakhstanis for urgent military service.	in total in 2015 it is planned to call more than 30 thousand kazakhstanis on military service .	3,29
As indicated in the document, 80% of ktze-khorgos gateway employees will be attracted from local personnel.
15 new projects of the industrialization map will be put into operation in a solemn atmosphere online:
15 people turned to the Governor's Office, several of them are asked to visit Kerch, Smolensk, cities and Belarus.
The price of gas per 10 km of land is 40% cheaper than gasoline.
Over the past year, 12 thousand tons of meat products were exported from Kazakhstan.	in general 12 thousand tons of meat products exported over the last year .	3,30
Also, 4 children's playgrounds were built, 4 bus stops appeared.	in addition , 4 playgrounds were commissioned and 4 bus stops were fixed .	3,30
More than 20 thousand exhibits employ 82 people.	the facility , which houses more than 20 thousand exhibits , employs 82 people .	3,30
for example, 78% of urban or more than 800 thousand people visited polling stations.	so , 78 % of citizens , or about 800 thousand people came to the voting stations .	3,30
The fourth oath-taking ceremony took place on 8 April 2011 at the Palais de la Independence.	the fourth inauguration was held on april 8 , 2011 at the palace of independence .	3,30
then the population of Kazakhstan, before the war, was about 10 million people.	at that moment the population of kazakhstan before the war was about 10 million .	3,30
Currently, the cooperative has the ability to produce up to 850 tons of fish per year.	at the moment the cooperative is able to produce dried fish up to 850 tons per year .	3,30
Since 2000, February 21 has been declared UNESCO World Language Day.
He noted that the commission received 397 applications for 505 objects worth 4.2 billion tenge.
five veterans received apartments, 14 war veterans renovated houses.
the share of foreign direct investment increased from 7% to 14%.
12 thousand of them will be invited in the spring, from April to June, "said A. Oserbayev.
On May 29, 2014, an agreement was signed in the capital on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The British Prime Minister noted that he warmly recalls the visit to Kazakhstan in 2013.
4 . invalidate some decrees of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with the annex to this decree.
most of the councils of public consent in the republic work in this area, their number is 266.
Born in 1924 in the village of Mikhailovka, Arshalinsky district, Akmola region. i was born in 1924 in akmola region in arshalyn district in mikhaylovka village .
in particular, members of the government discussed the draft unified program for business support and development "Business Roadmap 2020."
the annual capacity of the plant reaches 100 thousand cubic meters of gas per year.
According to the head of the committee, last year the growth of emergency situations amounted to about 70%.
Born on October 25, 1925 in the village of Polyozerka, Kuibyshevsky District, Novosibirsk Region.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 134 representatives of the media from 31 states.
In the division named after F. Dzierzhinsky and. Nosik served his military debt for 6 years in 1948.
It should be noted that by the decree of the President of Kazakhstan 2015 was marked by the Year of the People of Kazakhstan.
10 billion tenge was allocated for 10 universities of the country for the next 3 years.
aircraft delivered 19 rescuers, two emergency rescue vehicles, watercraft, motor comps of equipment.
all programs will facilitate the country's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world. all the programs are designed to ensure a transition to a new stage of development and entry into the top 30 most developed countries .
Recall that World Tuberculosis Day is celebrated annually on March 24.
In 2011 the volume of payments amounted to 19,543,000 tenge, in 2012 - 141 298 000 tenge, and in 2013 - 1 145 391 100 tenge.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the total length of the pipeline and the volume of work is 297 km.
The remaining 340 million tenge was spent on the construction of the hostel, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
To date, 1056 projects receive subsidies in the amount of 241 billion tenge and the amount of compensated subsidies is 20 billion tenge.
According to representatives of the national company, the results of the competition will be announced in the capital from May 27 to 29, 2015.
In general, in the fall of 2017, all objects should be commissioned, "the president said.
Since 2011, the manufacturing industry has been facing the mining industry in terms of growth. since 2011 , the manufacturing sector grew ahead of mining .
Another 3 billion tenge went to the budgets of Akks and 38.6 billion holdings.
According to him, 800 private houses were built in the region due to private investments.
According to data from educational institutions, of which 4,159 (83%) are employed.
In 2014, construction work amounted to 39 billion tenge and amounted to 196.2%, "he said.
Recall that since 2017, a phased implementation of ams is planned.
To implement this process in 2015, I instruct to allocate 29 billion tenge.
Last year, 74 cars worth 191 million tenge were seized from the regional budget, all medical organizations were provided with sanitary vehicles.	last year 191 million tenge was allocated for ourchase of 74 vehicles .	3,37
In recent years, 355 million tenge has been allocated to support the material and technical base, "the head of the region said.
As a result, 26 projects for a total investment of 23 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map, "the report said.
In the elections of April 3, 2011, Nursultan Nazarbayev received 95.55% of the vote.
Also, 10 projects worth 89.3 billion tenge are being implemented in the region. in addition , there are more than 10 projects with a total investment of 89.3 billion tenge at various stages of implementation .
The parties noted the importance of 5 institutional reforms initiated by the head of state.
We are taking 100 concrete steps to implement five reforms. we 'll work out 100 concrete steps for implementation of five reforms gradually and they will be published .
In addition, today during the consideration of 70 amendments to amend legislative acts.
According to social memoranda between akimats and national holdings, the companies saved 300 thousand jobs.
He died in January 1945 in the battle of Warsaw.
Since 2009, the food safety management iso 22000:2006 has been introduced.
As of May 25 of this year, 891 applicants have been assigned pensions and benefits.
including at a price that is 30% lower than that of foreigners.
In March 2014, Kazakhstan applied for membership in worldskills international (wsi).
In general, to date, the banks have approved 15 projects totaling 16.1 billion tenge, "he said.
For 20 years, we have done our job with honor. during 20 years , we are honored to do our job , we were agents of the policy of our president , today the assembly has become the constitutional body and the role of the apk increases every year .
Over the past 2 years, the volume of fish processing in the region has increased by 2 times.
Previously, 497 soldiers and officers were considered natives of Kazakhstan.
According to the schedule for the sale of republican property for 2014-2015, 34 objects were included in privatization.
Within the framework of this program, 237 projects were implemented in Kyzylorda region for a total amount of loans of more than 20 billion tenge.
steppe eagle exercises - 2015 will be held in two stages - in April and June of this year.
Today, 250 college and 3 thousand enterprises work together, "he said.
High program implementation rates were observed in the areas of Kizlyarsky (140%), Naurzymsky (132%), Fedorovsky (128%) districts.
On November 14, 2014, a contract was signed with mabco constructions sa for integrated work.
- Astana-Kostanay № 153/154, capital March 20, 2015, Kostanay March 21, 2015;
Last year, the volume of loans issued amounted to 382.5 million tenge, which is 2.3 times more than in 2013.
As part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 4 projects worth 332.1 million tenge were approved, "he said.
According to the Governor's Office, its design capacity is 180 thousand pieces of furniture per year.
It should be noted that 7563 general education schools operate in the republic in the 2014-2015 academic year.
for the construction and reconstruction of housing for a total amount of 244 million tenge.
197.3 million tenge was allocated and implemented for the implementation of the state youth policy in 2014.
in Kazakhstan, the level of production of basic food products for domestic consumption is 80%.
According to Issekeshev, the density of Internet use in Kazakhstan is 70%.
And the achievements of Kazakhstan over 20 years are only impressive, "said I. Rigul.
the veteran is waiting for the main holiday of 2015 - the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
the form of the concession is 6 kindergartens at a non-growing age, 5 kindergartens in Semey.
Born February 15, 1916 in the Kurgan region.
We saw 2 child and 4 grandson.
Since 2013, the Baikonur Investment Forum has been held once a year.
In 1952 he was sent to Karaganda to continue his service.
Trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia in 2014 amounted to 13.4 million tenge.
the project plans to build 5 bridges, 15 bridges and 7 overpasses in two sections.
Last year, we updated the equipment by 70%, "said B. Kazhiev.
In 2009, 120 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan for a period of 15 years.
As of April 16 of this year, pensions and benefits have been assigned to 427 applicants.
the share of central research - 23%, applied - 58% and development research - 19%.
we live on Kazakh land, here are representatives of 130 nationalities.
Since 2008, he has headed the association and is the chairman of the council.
46 schools, 9 kindergartens, two summer camps and a palace of schoolchildren were repaired.
- Almat-arys No. 61/62, from Alma-Ata on March 19, 2015, lion on March 20, 2015;
more than 40 per cent of decision-making positions in the region are held by women.
This year, 45 employers took part in the fair, who presented 250 vacancies.
The volume of construction work increased by 2 billion 478.4 million tenge, "the report said.
According to the Governor's Office, the Iranian side will invest 52 million dollars in the project.
Currently, there are 9 preschool-age correctional institutions in Almaty.
commodity sturgeon farm of Caspian Royal Fish LLP worth 491 million tenge.
Within the framework of SME development, 65.2 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for the development of engineering infrastructure, and in 2016 it is planned to develop 250 million tenge.
Since April 2008 - Vice President of Ktzh Uk.
the total budget of our pavilion amounted to just over 17 million euros. the total budget of the pavilion was over 17 million euros .
In general, this year the company delivered 880 thousand tons of meat per 1 tenge to the market of Aktobe region.
For 2015, 270 million tenge was allocated from the city budget for the medium and ongoing repair of city streets.
The theater is designed for 600 seats, there are preparatory halls, a small hall.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the domestic regional product exceeds 65 percent.
In particular, 303 families received housing and celebrated housewarming.
these agreements served as the basis for the establishment of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in 2001.
During 2014, 10 joint security statements were issued.
While 138 sectors were represented in Kazakhstan in 2008, in 2013 there were 154.
Representatives of 80 companies took part in the meeting from Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
According to the Mayor of the capital, today 216 veterans of the Great Patriotic War live in the capital.
today, domestic tourism accounts for only 3% of the country's income.
Recall that the environmental month will last in the capital from April 13 to May 13.
7 primary health care facilities were commissioned in the village.
this is 300 billion tenge more than in the previous year, "the minister said.
2015 will be a historic year for our country. 2015 will be a special year , full of important historical events for the country .
Men 24 and 39 years old had to cover a distance of 5 km.
Recall that bike rides in Almaty have been held since 2009.
The production budget amounted to 1.7 billion tenge and will be fully completed in the fall of 2015.
Energy is one of the factors necessary for the EXPO in 2017.	nursultan nazarbayev has reminded that the wind energy is declared as the main theme of expo 2017 .	3,44
their total output was 27 per cent.	the share of their products in the total production was 27 % .	3,44
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, it is planned to employ about 400 thousand people.
He noted that during the implementation of these projects 421 workplaces were created.
On April 22, the capital will host the international conference "Expo-2017 - a route for today's construction."
395 women turned to the mammologist, 583 people received dental care.
By 2020, it is planned to increase their number to 20 units, "he said.
retail turnover amounted to 138 billion tenge, investment volume - 50 billion tenge.
Further training in the selection of judges through 1 year in the magistracy. further , we need to improve the skills on the 1 year of magistracy .
This year, the amount of financing of local roads from the national budget amounted to 80 billion tenge. this year , the funding of local roads from the republican budget amounted to more than 80 billion tenge .
In 2015, we plan to prevent a sharp change in the rate of tenge. in 2015 we plan to avoid the acute fluctuations of tenge 's exchange rate .
Mr. Alimzhanov himself served in the armed forces since 1992.
On May 21, the President of Kazakhstan will receive Lithuanian Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius, as well as Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel.
Since 2007, he has been participating in almost all parades of troops.
In 2013, growth amounted to 0.5%, "the report said.
22 projects reached 70 percent capacity, 4 projects reached 50 percent capacity.
the area of ​ ​ irrigated land was expanded by 5 thousand hectares and amounted to 90 thousand hectares.
He also noted that the program "Business Roadmap 2020" covered about 10 thousand entrepreneurs.
Since 2001, 1.8 trillion tenge has been invested in the restoration of roads. since 2001 , about 1.8 trillion tenge was allocated for the restoration and maintenance of thr public roads .
According to him, during the project, 3590 applications were received from all regions of the country.
today Kazakhstan has a day of 17 religious denominations in peace and harmony.
In the next 4 years, we plan to conclude a new contract.
annually the prize has 12-13 concert numbers, this year there will be 24.
The project worth 3 billion 640 million tenge was built as part of the industrialization map of Kazakhstan.
During this time, a competition was held, which received 26 works.
In 2013, this figure was 172.3 per 100 thousand people.
10535 bags were laid in Akmola region per day. 10535 sack tare are laid per day in akmola region .
The volume of services grew by 34% and reached 15 billion tenge.
In 2014, 68 projects worth 6.1 billion tenge were launched through Kazagro.
this will increase the capacity to 7.1 million passengers by 2017, "the president said.
Since 1998, a State programme for the functioning and development of languages has been implemented.
new enterprises produced products worth 4 trillion tenge and exported products worth 628 billion tenge.
2 million tenge was allocated for these purposes by Kazakh Oil Aktobe LLP.
At the launch of the project worth 600 million tenge 50 new jobs will be created.
its construction is scheduled for the end of March 2017, "he added.
Currently, the plant produces up to 500 thousand tons of cement per year.
551 students in socio-humanitarian subjects took part in the Republican Olympiad.
The construction of a shopping and entertainment center worth 10 billion tenge has already begun.
1 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of these sports and recreation complexes.
According to him, 115.1 billion tenge was invested in fixed assets in January-December 2014.
In the period from 2014 to 2020, it is planned to privatize 106 objects and assets of the fund.
As part of the Akbulak program, 20 water supply projects were implemented in 2014.
24 Kazakh-Turkish International University named after K.
a march of 400 kilometers with military equipment was also made.	they also held vehicle march of 400 km ,  - the statement reads .
As a result, the national team won 5 gold and 6 silver medals.
It is worth noting that today 60% of them are employed.
According to the agency, in 2015, 100 thousand school graduates will take part in the test.
Of the 85 events, 48 events worth 21 billion tenge.
in the capital there are 18 road sections where traffic jams constantly occur.
in the Kalkaman district, an intellectual school of chemical and biological direction for 900 places was opened.
The State Language Development Fund was established at the initiative of the Head of State in September 2008.
According to reports, 2,000 people took part in the action - parkmakers, workkautists, skaters, graffitists, rappers, dancers, jasotans, as well as activists of the youth movement.
in general, the cost of projects approved by Ekdb bank is 63 billion tenge.
In 2015, 434.2 million tenge was allocated for the construction of engineering networks from the republican budget.
According to the deputy, today there are 700 trade markets in Kazakhstan.
accordingly, pensions will increase by 9% (7% - average inflation rate and 2% - advance).
The President raised the issue of 5 institutional reforms and called them the plan of the nation. the president put forward 5 institutional reforms , called national plan .
Recall that this year a military parade will be held in the capital on May 7.
it is planned to produce more than 180 tons of products per year.
An increase in the number of all livestock by 4% was also noted.
The National Fund has a transfer of 1 billion 702 million tenge, "he said.
This will attract 60.0 billion tenge of private investment in the industry in 2015.
The volume of medical products increased by 500 pieces, "said the head of state.
for example, the "northern" akk, according to forecasts, earned 100 million tenge.
As part of the Green Country program, 115 million trees were planted on an area of ​ ​ 50 thousand hectares.
the list of awarded 5438 people, including 130 participants in the Great Patriotic War.
at the same time, most of the registered objects are trademarks (71%).
The main steps will begin in 2025, "the minister said.
According to the Mayor's Office, the housing commission has appointed 216 owners of apartments.
The growth of the eurozone economy in the last quarter of 2014 amounted to 0.1%.
The counting period shall not exceed 12 hours.
200 million tenge of budget funds were allocated for these purposes, "the report said.
At the end of 2014, more than 700 thousand workers received compensation. following the results of 2014 more than 700 thousand workers received compensation .
We plan that 400 thousand new jobs will be created as a result of the program.
7 . oil storage terminal and oil products storage terminal
According to the Governor's Office of the city, 19 revolutions and interchanges were built in Almaty.
Under the industrialization program, 48 projects worth 283 billion tenge were implemented in the region.
20 flights from Kyzylorda to the capital, Almaty, Karaganda.
Last year, we funded this industry by $222 billion. herewith , last year , the sector was financed by 222 billion tenge , " makhazhanov stated .
According to the results of 2013, Kazakhstan produced 91.97 square meters of electricity.
The prize fund of the competition amounted to 1 million tenge.
The drafts-chess tournament lasts two days, 50 veterans of the region take part in it.
Currently, the production of eggs in the country provides 95% of the need. currently , the production of eggs in the country covered 95 % of the need .
aktobe jeo joint-stock company started its activity on June 2, 2006.
annual output is currently 500 tons.
13 people will be involved in the repair of the building of a multidisciplinary college.
The head of state noted that 15 years have passed since the first meeting with N. Nazarbayev. Putin has passed.
In the history of expo, such projects are planned for the first time since 1851.
In addition, as the President noted, 98% of investors in Kazakhstan are insured.
In general, the plant produces more than 23 thousand tons of products per month.
In one of these battles in November 1942, his father was seriously wounded.
the first phase of construction and deepening of the pier will begin in July 2015. the first phase of the project - construction of the pier and dredging - will be launched in july 2015 .
This year, the volume of cotton cultivation in the Maktaaral region decreased by 9 thousand hectares.
During the year, we plan to hold 12 concerts dedicated to this special event. during the year we plan to hold 12 concerts dedicated to this significant event .
According to the data, the annual production capacity of the plant is 400 tons of ingots.
It is planned that on May 5 the head of state will meet with the ex-president of the European Commission, etc.
As a result, 150 commodity lists were compiled in 6 main areas of industry. as a result , 150 commodity items on 6 major industries were determined .
The Governor's Office also specified that 36 people are employed.
In 2014, 83 projects worth 3.5 billion tenge were launched in agriculture.
Half of the 1 million 200 thousand of our fellow countrymen who went to war died on the battlefield.
3 objects worth 110.1 million tenge were legalized.
Thus, the bulk of privatization entered the holdings by 89%.
in the region there are 406 greenhouses with a total area of ​ ​ 29.7 hectares.
According to the Minister, in 2014 the revenues of the republican budget increased by 8%.
in addition, the number of marriages and divorces was 6081 and 3064, respectively.
last year alone, 10 new projects were launched, 17 billion tenge was spent.
On March 25, a train from the North Kazakhstan region arrived in the city of Atbasar and stopped.
Thus, the costs of supporting the agricultural industry will be increased by 20 billion tenge.
the famous christopher is going to visit the columnist's country and perform on the 85th stage of the Kazakhstan ballet.
In order to promote industrialization, two industrial parks entered the eea zone in 2005. to achieve industrial development in 2005 the territory of fez included two industrial parks .
It is also planned to create 747 new jobs, "said A. Bekenov.
In 2014, the construction of a district clinic in the Karmakshinsky district was completed.
To date, 27 assets totaling KZT36.65 billion have been sold.
The traditional event was attended by 23 representatives of other nationalities.
thanks to the Employment Roadmap 2020 program.
111 stores with the logo of the region were designed for the "Made in Kazakhstan" action.
In 2014, the sown crop in the republic is 21.4 million hectares. in 2014 , the acreage of crops amounted to 21.4 million hectares in the country .
Recall that the final of the competition will be held on April 23.
its share in gross regional product was 50%.
Thus, over 10 thousand tribal sheep were received per year.
the educational institution is designed for 600 people, equipped with a modern material and technical base.
according to preliminary calculations, the project implementation period is 3 years.
in total, 30 thousand Kazakhstanis are planned to be called up for urgent military service this year.
specialized treatment for the first time increased from 50% to 86.5%.
"We're patriots!" As for the action, it started in Astana on February 3.
834 students will study at the new three-story school in two shifts.
in addition, 133 kindergartens will be implemented with private investment.
during this period, 191 districts (459 settlements) were covered by mobilization groups.
In 2015, the volume of the budget for optimization decreased by 2.74 billion tenge.
Since 2015, the revenue department of Astana has modernized the operation of call centers.
now we have a task for 50 combine groups, "said Erik Sultanov.
fish receiving station has the ability to store 250 tons of fish.
Since January 2013, he heads the trade union federation of Kazakhstan.
At a temperature of 10 to 15 degrees, the warming of our walls showed 5-8 degrees.
2 . results of the work of the political council of the party and the central control and audit commission during the reporting period
now 65 pupils of orphanages of the city have moved here.
For the period from June 2014 to May 2015, 18 objects are planned for sale.
As a result, 2,975 jobs will be created and 7,996 people will be provided with housing.
in total, the payment of subsidies for 1,146 projects in the field of banks was approved.
trade between the two countries last year amounted to $2 billion.
800 units of special equipment are engaged in the collection of collected garbage.
Under your leadership, Turkey has made great strides over the past 12 years. under your leadership over the past 12 years , turkey has made great progress .
Russia's share in the total foreign trade turnover of Pavlodar region is 65%.
55 vacancies from government agencies and enterprises were represented there.
The construction of the drama theater in Ust-Kamenogorsk began in August 2012.
For the period from June 2014 to April 2015, 18 objects are planned for sale.
For the period from June 2014 to April 2015, 18 objects are planned for sale.
The railway line "zhezkazgan-beineu," with which freight traffic began in 2014.
53 member States of the European Regional Bureau participate annually in the EU.
By the decree of the head of state, 2015 was declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
According to the chairman of the board of the NPP, 35 permits were excluded.
In the first five-year period of the Interntrialization Program, 770 projects were launched.
of them residential buildings - 62, used - 107, securities - 1.
Construction of the first complex in Aktobe region will begin in the second half of 2015.
By the end of the year, 98 km of updated roads will be commissioned.
Following the meeting, 10 projects were approved for inclusion in the industrialization map.
Of these, the level of Kazakh content is 77%.
In total, it is planned to spend 5.2 billion tenge on water supply in 2015.
about 60% of the total budget expenditures we received in the social sphere.
The modern two-story medical building will be able to replace 50 people. the modern two-storey building medical institution for 50 visits per shift .
14 more industrialization map projects will be launched before the end of the year.
To date, 107 veterans are in line for benefits.	to date , 107 veterans in line for subsidized housing .	3,55
current spending was reduced by 391 billion tenge, budget development - by 295.5 billion tenge, the Minister of Finance added.
Recall that the action started in the capital on December 30 last year.
According to the Vice Minister, 150 billion tenge of private investments will be attracted as a result and 20 thousand jobs will be created.
This project was implemented in 17 cities and 4 districts of the country.
in the future, about 100 thousand more deciduous, coniferous plantations will be planted.
In turn, 200 entrepreneurs were registered as participants from Kazakhstan.
we are creating a special innovation zone with an area of ​ ​ 210 hectares.
In 43 yards, ongoing repairs will be carried out, that is, the previous playgrounds will be replaced.
As for the development of significant funds, the first tranche approved 22 projects totaling 28.5 billion tenge.
Currently, 18 cells are being upgraded at the poultry farm.
In the draft revised budget for 2015-2017, the national budget expenditures were optimized for 700 billion tenge.
In 2014, many events dedicated to Islamic culture were held in Bishkek.
for example, an average of 10 billion tenge is allocated for Almaty and South Kazakhstan regions, "he said.
The general launch under the contract is scheduled for 2016.
remuneration for third and fourth places ranged from 500 to 300 thousand tenge, respectively.
At the age of 18 he graduated from the conservatory.
The share of the three countries is 85 per cent of the CIS gross output.
of these, 67 people were sent to a permanent place of work.
Kazakhstan has achieved success in 23 years, which other countries could not achieve. over 23 years kazakhstan has reached such progress that many countries could not achieve , it makes us very happy .
1,500 villagers have already imported drinking water.
In the near future, 120 more young families will receive keys to apartments.
The plant employs 200 Kazakhstani specialists from various industries.
In total, 186 people were selected to participate in the parade.
Today, representatives of 28 ethnic groups work fruitfully in the courts of the republic.
After disbanding in 1948, Mamanov graduated from the Higher Party School.
today the company produces sour dairy products in 58 names.
According to the results of the competition, 2 students won prizes.
It is planned to attract 140 billion tenge of investments, "the vice president said.
two five-story houses for 100 and 60 apartments were built in the Vesna microdistrict.
But I want to say that the amount of funds spent in 2011 reached 4.4 billion tenge for forecasting, albeit a small amount of funds in this direction.
In addition, as noted, more than 23 thousand jobs have been created.
In total, 186 people were selected to participate in the parade.
The results of international studies timss-2015 and pisa-2015 will be published by eidu and iea in December 2016.
With the full implementation of this comprehensive project, the volume of attracted foreign investments in the region will amount to 250 million US dollars.
According to the department, most of the new enterprises are concentrated in construction (27%) and trade (22%) areas.
main: metallurgy (23%), food production (22%), mechanical engineering (21%).
According to the program "Nұrly zhol," 10 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of algae.
compared with previous elections, 52% voted in 2005, 69% in 2011.
He noted that investments worth 47.6 billion tenge were attracted in the region, 2215 new jobs were created and 974 people with disabilities were employed.
Last year real revenues of Almaty amounted to 356 billion tenge.
In February 2015, the opening of the first Inc. complex is planned.
the shortage of doctors is 153 people, including 58 in rural areas.
material assistance was provided to 300 children with cancer.
among them 50 representatives from Russia and 20 countries of Eurasia.
today there were 569 works, which is amazing. today 's 569 works has been received on competition of posters , which makes us very surprised .
the total amount of fines imposed amounted to 26 billion 42 million tenge, "he said.
this process begins after the applicant submits all documents and is justified on March 25.
It is planned that Kyrgyzstan will join the union from May 2015.
Over the past 20 years, great changes have taken place in the political, social and cultural life of our countries. over the past 20 years our countries underwent tremendous changes in the political , social and cultural life .
518 people from target groups will be provided with social jobs.
It will employ 4 doctors, 12 sisters and 2 social workers.
we received 200 sketches in total, "he said.
31 soldiers of the division became heroes of the Soviet Union.
To date, 100 thousand of them work, these are those who received a disability or provided us with support.
the total volume of subsidies to entrepreneurs will amount to 300 million tenge.
to date, 99% of the amount has been mastered, "the report said.
1 . nomination of a candidate for president of the Republic of Kazakhstan from the party "Nұr Otan."
During the meeting, all veterans were awarded a cash prize in the amount of 70 thousand tenge.
600 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, "said Duissenova.
In the near future, 70 more parking spaces will be opened here.
The trade turnover between the two countries in 2014 amounted to 430 million US dollars.
2014 was a busy year.	during the meeting the participants discussed the necessity to hold expanded board meetings in all departments in order to sum up 2014 and outline tasks for the current year .	3,64
As for Kazakhstan, 2013 thousand people lived on the dispensary register in 25.	as for kazakhstan , at the end of 2013 more than 25 thousand people subject to regular medical check-up .	3,64
15 . grain storage complex of class "a" LLP "A," capital.
382 participants of the program were granted microcredit in the amount of 654.2 million tenge (from returned funds).	thus 382 participants got subsidies totaling 654,2 million tenge .	3,64
According to him, 1757 applications worth 5.6 billion tenge were approved as part of preferential lending.	according to him , the program of preferential auto loan approved 1757 applications totaling 5.6 billion tenge .	3,64
In 2015, this date became available. "
In 2015, 78.2 billion tenge will be allocated to subsidize livestock production, he said.
It should be noted that 90 thousand political experts from 3 countries will take part in the Astana Economic Forum.
In this regard, the participants of the meeting held 21 lecture lessons, explained the principles and procedure for organizing the service of troops, supervising order in military units and mektei.
this year will be held in 4 sports: kokpar, football, basketball, volleyball.
In June 2015, the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will be held in the capital.
73 works in the technical, natural, social and humanitarian fields.
The updated level of guaranteed transfer of the national fund is 1 trillion 702 billion tenge.
On February 11 of this year, the head of state presented the republican action "Made in Kazakhstan."
the composition of tullar-talgo cars once every 4 days.
6) a description of the diploma and badge of the laureate of the state prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of business circles of Almaty expressed readiness to allocate 483 million tenge to finance the project on modernization of the zoo.
Currently, the cost of AI-92 gasoline is 109 tenge, "the minister said.
today, according to our estimates, 25% of the plan has been completed, "he concluded.
Recall that 150 school-age children with autism live in the capital.
According to the agency, 122 roads and 172 victims of floods were restored in the republic.
Last year, we received 25% of transit revenue.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the average amount of benefits in 2014 amounted to 21279 tenge.
Combat shooting in the military unit 44736 is a weekly event.
Last year, 27 healthcare facilities were built in the region, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In the first five-year period, the manufacturing sector occupied 70% of foreign investments in the economy of Kazakhstan. for the first five year plan the manufacturing sector received 70 percent of all foreign investment in kazakhstan 's economy .
further 5 white objects "azastan tem_r zhola".
This innovation saved 128 million tenge of budget funds.
On May 6, the acord will be awarded state prizes, military and special awards.
In addition, from the state budget veterans receive material assistance in the amount of 250 thousand tenge.	the financial assistance in the amount of 250 thousand tenge is allocated from the state budget to the veterans .	3,69
The construction permit is obtained on the basis of principle 30, 20, 10. a building permit will be carried out according to the principle : 30 , 20 , 10 .
In addition, the project for 16.2 billion tenge created 500 jobs.
Despite all the difficulties, we ended 2014 with an increase of 4.3%. despite all difficulties , we finished 2014 with growth of 4.3 percent .
In December 2014, 8.7 thousand people were employed in the economy of the republic. 8.7 million people were employed in the economy of the republic in december 2014 .
export of raw materials and trade increased 4 and 6 times, "said A. Mamytbekov.
On February 18, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to meet with the Secretary of the Security Council of Russia Nikolai Patrushev.
On May 8, Nursultan Nazarbayev will take part in the ceremony of laying flowers at the monument "Defenders of the Fatherland."
April 26 was another historic fateful day for our country.
According to him, in 2014, 770 km of roads were repaired in the region.
This year, by decision of the republican commission, 600 scholarships were appointed. this year , the republican commission allocated 600 scholarships .
Girls from 8 to 13 years old can take part in the bala turkvizyon-2015 competition.
Task set to optimize budget for 700 billion tenge, "Karagusova said
export of cheese and cottage cheese amounted to 316 tons.
This time, the medical train arrived in Kyzylorda region from April 23 to May 14.
Work on the participation of our veterans in the May 9 parade in Moscow has been taken under control. the participation of our veterans in the victory parade on may 9 is highly questionable .
the capacity of the ferry complex is 4 million 100 thousand tons per year.
project cost 1.4 billion tenge and 30 jobs.
today, I and my 49 guns took the military oath with great pride.
It is noted that 32 events were held within the framework of the program in Almaty.
Until 2020, it is planned to provide the city of Aktau with a kindergarten for 100%.
its structure includes 11 divisions and offices.
the share of women in entrepreneurship was 50%, "he said.
In April 2015, this project was launched, "said R. Sklyar.
such a device will collect natural gas from 21 wells. one such point collects natural gas from 21 wells .
In the North Kazakhstan region there are 6 poultry farms.
As noted in the Governor's Office, it was built in December 2011 on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
today we bring together 500 companies from 40 countries. there are 500 companies from 40 countries in almaty .
aircraft of this type have been delivered to Kazakhstan since December 2012.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the total cost of the project is 150 million euros.
today our country is an example of the good life of 130 peoples. today our country is the example of peaceful coexistence of 130 nationalities .
At the same time, 468 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the construction of a new school.
2012-2014 bilateral trade turnover exceeded $7 billion.
In 2014, akims of all levels held 873 meetings.
According to him, 3 thousand engineers are prepared under the "future" program.
In 2014, 202 sporting events worth 29 million tenge were held in the city.
As a result Kazakhstan athletes won 2 silver and 1 bronze awards.
In 2014, Kazakhstan exported 12.3 thousand tons of meat and meat products.
in addition, another 6 participants were awarded certificates "for active participation."
According to the regional akimat, the design capacity of the new school is designed for 300 places.
In 2014, this company received subsidies from the state in the amount of 274 million tenge.
In 2015, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan celebrates its 20th anniversary.
Within the framework of the SPFIID for 2015-2019, 4 priority areas were selected. 4 priority directions within spiid for 2015-2019 are chosen .
The protocol was drawn up on April 25, 2013 in Minsk.	the protocol was committed in minsk on april 25 , 2013 .	3,73
State Historical, Cultural and Literary-Memorial Museum-Reserve of Abay "was created in 1940.
In total, from 2008 to 2014, 118 kilometers of heating networks were reconstructed in the city.
for example, China's urbanization programme is growing by 1%. for example , the chinese urbanization program produces about 1 percent of gdp growth .
in total, 5971 mothers with many children live in the city of Aktobe.
727 thousand children are studying there, the head of the Ministry of Education and Science said.
Since 2010, advisory and diagnostic trains visited 820 stations in all regions of the republic.
500 billion tenge will be spent on it this year, "he said.
Last year, 25 subjects of the agro-industrial complex were improved by 7.4 billion tenge.
Last year, more than 290 thousand statistical reports were adopted online.
about 4 thousand units of weapons and military equipment are involved in these actions.
To date, there are 4 veterans left in the city. "
It is worth noting that 2015 is considered the year of major anniversary holidays.
if earlier the quota was 3%, today we differentiate it.
In addition, last year 470 people with disabilities were permanently employed.
40 countries expressed interest in free trade with the Eurasian Economic Union. there 40 countries interested in free trade with the eurasian economic union .
it is planned to raise $45 million for the construction of an eco-poultry farm.
today the district gives 13% of agricultural products.
- Form 057/y "certificate of registration with medical organizations";
2014, like 2015, was the year of the state and world-class election campaign. 2014 and 2015 are very fruitful for the elections .
A total of 126 people were saved, 744 people were evacuated.
70% of the project worth $131 million was financed by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
That is, to finance investment projects in 14 areas, "said D. Makhazhanov.
We had 4 young children, so I was not called.
According to estimates, in 2014, wool growth amounted to 4.3%.
of which the share of goods - 67%, work - 63%, services - 85%, "the report said.
As you know, on April 26, the presidential election of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held.
a two-story kindergarten building was built for 75 children. a two-storey kindergarten is designed for 75 children .
To date, there are 215 regular bus routes in the region.
According to him, the state award named after al-Farabi is awarded to 7 scientists.
currently rubella rice is planted on 36% of the sown area.
According to him, the total number of juvenile courts is 57 judges.
The regional budget received 77 billion tenge, growth amounted to -9.8%.
currently there are 50 joint ventures with Hungary in Kazakhstan.
First of all, the budget report for 2015 is considered on the agenda.
Another 36 hockey courts are also under construction.
In 2015, 1.8 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for these purposes.
in general, the proportion of women in the country is about 40%.
In 1983, he took office as the head of Aktobe.
Also in 2015, the privatization program will continue.
The deadline for the implementation of the first stage is set until 2020.
Kazakhstan and China plan to implement 20 joint projects.
The exhibition will be held from June 10 to September 30, 2017.
I think that Kazakhstan faces 5 large-scale tasks. i see 5 large-scale domestic tasks facing the country .
According to him, 150 people are involved in the maintenance of the pavilion.
In total, members of the regional government organized 40 meetings.
According to forecasts, in 2020 the cargo turnover will be 15 million tons.
In addition, 60 citizens evacuated from the village hare were returned home.
The study covered 14 regions, the capital and Almaty.
Kazgermunai sp LLP produced 3 million tons of oil in 2008, to date this figure has reached 3,100 million tons.
Also, for 11 months of construction, the figure amounted to 3.9%.
Over the past 5 years, 95 educational facilities have been built in the city.
Currently, 59 thousand chickens are grown with special care. now there are 59 thousand chickens imported from russia .
The action, which started from the capital, will reach Almaty on January 13.
12286 diagnostic studies were carried out, 130 small outpatient operations were carried out.
9,900 kilometers of mileage along this route took place in 7 days.
scheduled classes at all three landfills will end on March 1 of this year.
Following the meeting, 20 documents were signed.
In 2000, the Polish national-cultural center "Svyatlo" was created in Aktobe.
Today, 32% of passengers use public transport services in Almaty.
health care - 420 million tenge, repair work was also carried out here, sanitary transport was purchased, ambulance work was improved, positive reviews were formed.
In 2014, 2.9 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of 4 projects.
44 thousand people work on construction sites of industrialization map projects.
22 years have passed since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Vietnam.
6,470 specialists will be trained at other branch university bases.
A 3D simulator of the city's development until 2030 will be presented.
24 companies worth 24 billion tenge.
The volume index of industry in 2014 was 96.1%.
To date, 370 organizations are carrying out a state order in the capital. about 370 organizations of astana invite tenders of public procurement .
Since 2012, energy consumption has begun to decline.
In addition, 70 thousand tenge will be allocated to war veterans, 40 thousand tenge - to home front workers.
in the city, 460,050 people are engaged in small and medium-sized businesses.
To date, 8467 preschool organizations are operating.
5 challenges for our development, "N. Nazarbayev said.
For the period from June 2014 to April 2015, 139 facilities are subject to privatization.
It is worth noting that the project will be completed on June 30, 2017.
6 projects produce new types of products that were not previously produced in Kazakhstan.
17% of the country's population lives in the South Kazakhstan region. about 17 % of the total population lives in south kazakhstan region .
219 investment projects totaling 200 billion tenge were approved for a total amount of 120 billion tenge. total 120 billion tenge were approved for 219 investment projects worth 200 billion tenge .
During this year, entrepreneurs were assisted in the preparation of 150 business plans.
we have attracted more than $200 billion in foreign direct investment. we have attracted more than 200 billion dollars of foreign direct investment .
Since January 1, forensic medicine has moved to the Ministry of Justice. from january 1 , forensic medicine center moved to the ministry of justice .
According to the President of Kazakhstan, $14 billion has been allocated for these cases.
The crew of the tank of the military unit 27943 of Ust-Kamenogorsk took 4th place.
664 new jobs were created during the period from March 1 to April 1 of the current year.
the budget was first allocated in 2011.
To date, 118 km of the Semipalatinsk section have been reconstructed.
by morning, 159 soldiers voted here.
Capital investments per resident of the region amount to 248 thousand tenge.
the inauguration of the pennant victory will take place on January 12 at the pier in Aktau.
in addition, the construction of 16 rural outpatient clinics is envisaged.
During the construction of the facility, 873 people were employed.
currently 8 children, 14 grandchildren, 30 great-grandchildren.
industrial production increased by 0.2% and amounted to 18 trillion 492 billion tenge.
sanatorium and resort treatment covered more than 4 thousand disabled people and veterans.
the level of Kazakh content at this enterprise is 68%.
The list of voters of the Mangistau region includes 315 thousand 202 voters.
now we produce 80% of construction materials. now , almost 80 % of building materials we produce ourselves .
We will remind that on April 26 extraordinary presidential elections will be held in Kazakhstan.
in general, memoranda will be signed with 92 enterprises in the region.
17 billion 650 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the general program.
trained us were sent to the 134th separate communications battalion.
Member of the Accounting Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan since May 2000.
during the operation of the site, 207 articles were published.
According to the minister, 6 war veterans will take part in the celebrations of the capital - 260, in Moscow.
2 teams will compete further.
9,369 new jobs have been created in production, small and medium-sized businesses.
energy efficiency of 70 social facilities will be financed under this component.
In 2014, 2 billion 738.8 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the program.
15 steps are aimed at radically improving the professional level of the state apparatus.
According to Akimat of Akmola region, 35 heads of hereford and angus breed are killed here per day.
On the account of aliyah 78 destroyed enemy officers and soldiers.
There are also 177 polling stations in the region.
To date, there are 343 veterans in the region.
For the period from June 2014 to April 2015, 141 objects are subject to privatization.
All 22 veterans invited to the holiday were attracted financial resources.
of these, 25 are large and medium-sized.
Currently, portal users receive 11 different messages.
189 weightlifters from all over the world took part in prestigious competitions.
By 2016, the general market for medicines will be opened.
In 2015, it is planned to improve 59 yards in the Almaty region.
During the year, 6,503 consulting services were provided to entrepreneurs.
In 1944, Vasily Fedotovich was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
as a result of the improvement of the bill, 10 legislative acts will be amended.
Since the beginning of the year, 5746 new jobs have been created in the capital.
In addition, 120 additional places have been created in existing preschool organizations.
Roads No. 24, No. 25 and No. 27 were built for 489.5 million tenge.
In general, we currently have 30 employees.
During this time, we produced 1 billion 300 million tons, "he said.
this is evidenced by the indicators of the region for 11 months.
growth of investment investments is observed in 10 regions of the region.
To date, 15 thousand shopping centers of the country are located, "he said.
the total area of ​ ​ housing is 4180 square meters.
now the plant produces 30 tons of dairy products per shift.
in 5 regions in terms of regions there is a decline in industry.
Currently, the plant employs about 160 employees.
18 people from among the self-employed took part in it.
this network is $50 million, "he said.
600 thousand tenge was allocated for these purposes by Rokos Ltd LLP.
791 people were evacuated from the village of Samarka, "said A. Sovetov.
Currently, 229 veterans live in the capital.
January 2 was officially included in the union.
This year, 58 educational facilities were overhauled.
Thus, the volume of industrial products exceeded 410 billion tenge.
A total of 182 medals won by 51 Kazakh students, 20 of them belong to rmfmomi.
It is planned to allocate 321 billion tenge from the national fund in 2015-2016.
In the medium-term zone, this figure will reach 50%.
the capacity of the dairy processing plant is 160 tons per day.
70 villagers were covered by the restoration work of the elevator.
there are currently 44 complex service facilities.
According to him, a lot of work was carried out at 10 thousand polling stations.
In 1939 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
Thus, according to the head of the MNE, 70 billion tenge is provided in the form of debt on securities.
14 . gold mining factory LLP "auliegoldmaining," sko.
we achieved this in the shortest possible time, 20 years of history.
Representatives of 21 ethnocultural associations took part in the celebration of Nauryz.
The constitutional rights of more than 380 thousand citizens are protected.
1587 waiting rooms are provided with housing.
military parades were held in the country in 2005, 2009, 2011 and 2014.
about 4 tons of dairy products will be sold in the capital's stores.
The length of the carriageway is currently 228 km.
1,098 preschools provide bilingual education.
logistics transportation through Eea is 4 million tons.
Kumysk workshop produces more than 5 tons of kumysk per day.
this year 45 million tenge was allocated to improve the material and technical base of organizations.
According to the plan, exports can amount to 360 million dollars, "he said.
On March 30, the Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan will receive citizens.
18 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these works. 18 million tenge has been allocated from the national budget on carrying out the gasification .
13 thousand people will be involved in this work, "the report said.
drug demand is 82% fulfilled, "said K. Nurgaziev.
18 pp, 1 gtr, 2 pg.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, the total cost of the project is 100 million tenge.
In accordance with Article 65 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the President regulates the composition of the government.
During the implementation of the state program, 36 schools and 10 kindergartens were commissioned.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the tight schedule of international events of 2014.
In 1942 he graduated from a 7-year school in the village of Multi-Lake.
- Form 031/y "Record book of doctors' call to the house";
a laboratory complex equipped with Japanese technologies costs $3 million.
In 2014, it was decided to invest business in the Kazakhstan market. in 2014 it was decided to invest in business development in the promising and dynamically developing kazakhstani market .
in the extraordinary elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the central election commission registered 856 international observers.
now 350 people work at the plant, the average salary is 80-150 thousand tenge.
The total amount of funding for spring field work amounted to 97 billion tenge. the total sum of financing on spring sowing campaign and preparation for harvesting will be 97 billion tenge .
terminated the investment contract with 3 projects that did not fulfill the obligations under the contract.
under full pressure, 250 thousand people will work at the enterprise.
To date, 46 projects have been completed, 7 of them this year.
Last year, 53 billion tenge was allocated to support rural entrepreneurs.
In 2014, the company purchased limousine meat from Belarus.
Currently, 13 people work in it.
So, in 2014 525.6 billion tenge was attracted to the economy of the region.
The system became the best e-business project at the 2013 international wsis project prizes competition.
Early elections of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held on April 26, 2015.
Xi jinping congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his election victory on April 26.
Since 2010, the budget of the oncological service has amounted to 9.5 billion tenge. since 2010 the budget amounted to 9.5 billion tenge for all oncology service .
The amount of wages is 46,000 tenge, the term of practical work is 6 months.
For Kazakhstan with a population of 17 million people, this is a huge amount of money. for 17 million kazakhstani people , this is a big sum .
as a result, the permit will be reduced to 189 (49%).
as of May 1 of this year, the number of male recipients amounted to 35,793 people.
14 facilities will be commissioned in September 2015. by september 2015 we plan to commission 14 facilities .
To implement this plan, investment projects worth 830 million tenge are being developed.
In total, we issued 10 copies, "said the chairman of the council.
In total, 1234 people participate in the inquiry together with regular employees.
In 1942 he went to the front as a famous buleteer "maxim."
As part of the new industrialization, 33 projects worth 116 billion tenge were launched.
d.Makazhanov noted that last year this industry was financed by 222 billion tenge.
According to the samruk treasury, the investment program of the fund is planned to be reduced by 18%.
Representatives of 70 countries of the world will take part in this championship, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
On April 2, we arrived in Kazakhstan, on June 22, the war began, that is, after 2 months. on 2 april we moved to kazakhstan , and on june 22 the war began , after 2 months .
During the war years, Kazakhstan received 250 people remaining within the borders of the Nazis. during the war kazakhstan took 250 people from evacuated territories seized by the nazis .
This year we plan to increase this figure to 33%.
According to the report, 680 million tenge was spent on the construction of the poultry farm.
90 per cent of the world is multisectoral and multisectoral.
the opinion of Nursultan Nazarbayev, put forward in 1994, was realized.
56 people took part in the creative marathon as part of the Kazakh team.
Recall that in the city of Astana there are 189 polling stations.
The forum will be attended by three thousand delegates from 90 countries. three thousand delegates from 90 countries take part in the forum .
3 . election of members of the political council of the party and the central control and audit commission
By 2020, about 3 trillion tenge will be pledged. about 3 trillion tenge will be invested until 2020 .
The appeal was executed on August 18, 1943 and I went to the front.
measures have been introduced to improve the network of rural medical organizations, 13 rural hospitals have been restored, "he said.
of which 26 are gold, 34 are silver and 90 are bronze.
aircraft of this type have been operating in Kazakhstan since December 2012.
Recall, on April 26, extraordinary presidential elections were held in Kazakhstan.
More than a thousand children are in foster care, "said A. Galimova.
The CIS mission includes 410 observers from 8 countries.
4 . Ural Transformer Plant (production of electrical products).
it was first held in 2006 at the Central Museum of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the field was discovered in 1966.
28.9% population of the region (233,745) - youth.
And now we take here a liter of milk for 60 tenge.
with a capacity of 75 thousand tons of rolled metal per year.
Today, 273 veterans of the Great Patriotic War live in the North Kazakhstan region.
the largest number of participants in the national team of Kazakhstan is 23.
32 applications were received from engineering and construction materials enterprises.
47 memoranda worth more than 57 billion tenge were signed.
Because a third of small and medium-sized businesses in the country are concentrated in Almaty, and 450 thousand people are employed in this area.
design capacity - up to 2 thousand tons of vegetables.
the "health distance" in the name was 2 km 950 m.
On May 20, the Kazakh-Armenian business forum was held in the capital of Armenia. may 20 , the armenian capital hosted the kazakh-armenian business forum .
On March 21, the head of state is scheduled to participate in events dedicated to the March holiday.
for other contributors, the cost of state remuneration is 5 percent.
in total, 30 sports are included in the competition program.
The total cost of this program is $50 million.
last year they received only 10 thousand tenge, this time the amount increased 8 times.
gender composition: men - 3438 people, women - 3323 people, children - 1598 people.
The meeting, which was attended by 42 students from grades 10-11, unfolded in the form of question-answers.
What is 23 years for the history of the country? 23 years it is a drop in the country 's history .
140 representatives of ethnic groups live together in the country.
Next year, the company plans to produce 10 tons of products per year.
The gathering will be held on the basis of the military unit 51051 in the city.
Since the opening of the plant, 170 million pieces of brick have been produced.
It grew by 40%, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
The work of mobile groups will last until the end of 2015.
The deadline is December 2016. the commissioning date will be in december 2016 .
According to forecasts, 16 thousand new jobs will be created.
The fund will include $20 million from both sides.
design capacity is 1,500 tons of products per year.
In 1951, I returned, and in 1952 I entered.
According to him, in 2015 several ways of financing will be used.
The volume of tourism industry services in Almaty amounted to 21 billion tenge.
38 projects of the industrialization map will be implemented. 38 projects of the industrialization map are implemented in west kazakhstan region .
The action started on February 3 in the cities of Kazakhstan.
The national team of Kazakhstan will compete in 13 sports.
more than 5 thousand tons of various cokes were exported from the city.
Kazakhstan should become one of the developed countries of the world by 2050.
In 2014, the company dried 30 tons of grain per hour.
Of these, 52 thousand were employed for permanent work. 52 thousand people got a permanent job .
Until 2022, it is planned to create 5,100 jobs.
856 international observers were registered in the extraordinary presidential elections of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
15 projects worth 44.0 million tenge were funded.
their implementation will begin in 2015 and, first of all, heat supply projects are being considered.
Within the framework of the scientific and expert council, 187 events will be organized in the regions of the country.
the total value of legalized property is 1 billion 486 million 559 thousand tenge.
The total amount of signed memoranda exceeded 74 billion tenge.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 17 projects have been implemented.
During the project, 736 works were received.
Kazakhstan actively cooperates with 147 states of the world.
In August 1941, Danilov Gennady Ivanovich was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
According to the department, 2 teams took part in the open tournament.
a total of 8,862 election-related materials were published in regional gardens.
To date, the project has been implemented in 13 regions of the country.	today the project is implemented in 13 regions of the country .	4,11
Funds in the amount of 3 billion tenge were allocated for replenishment of working capital.	the banks allocated 3 billion tenge for working capital and refinancing .	4,11
The capital's branch purchased modern equipment in the amount of 400 million tenge.	the branch has been equipped with modern equipment worth 400 million tenge .	4,11
This year, 3 thousand people were employed at 75 new enterprises.	only this year about 75 new enterprises will be built , which will employ about 3 million people .	4,11
Also in production implemented the management system iso 9001.	iso 9001 management system introduced at the enterprise .	4,12
Today, 40 countries are interested in the Eurasian Economic Union.
About 150 hectares of land were allocated to the scientific garden.
34 units of agricultural equipment were purchased through the Cossack enterprise.
In 2014, the company produced 40 million eggs.
To date, about 15 thousand people have been evacuated.
in addition, there is an equal transport company in the military unit 91678.
In 2014, more than 70 thousand Kazakhstanis visited Thailand.
the average investment period is 5 years. the average investment period will be 5 years .
E Kazakhstan region has more than 7 thousand civil servants.
The main goal of the event is to summarize the results of 2014. the main purpose of the event is summarizing 2014 .
In the third direction, 484 people were trained.
2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
To date, 77 roads have been repaired in the region. today , regions of the country restored 77 sections of roads .
Compared to 2013, the number of kindergartens increased by 492 units.
the company produces more than 75 million eggs per year.
To date, the inogate program has successfully implemented 70 programs.
180 billion tenge will be spent this year.
all these plots are provided free of charge for 10 years.
The work carried out in 2014 was related to flight safety.
today, 20% of Kazakhstanis speak English.
the cinema was built in 1963, consists of two parts.
During the event, 9 republican contests were announced.
90 cases of flooding of republican roads were registered.
increased the number of operators from 2 to 6 people.
The contractor was instructed to commission the facility before April 1.
insurance fund is designed for 350 years, "said B. Zhaparov.
It is worth noting that 151 States have now ratified the Convention.
163 young talents took to the stage.
The government adopted a plan to support industrial industry for 2015.
20 schools are planned to be built at the expense of the local budget.
on average 12 c per hectare.
The staff of the faculty is 40,320.
Currently, the company has created 250 jobs.
service provision period - not more than 30 minutes.
74 best cadets were selected in a military educational institution.
project capacity is 500 kg of dore solution per year.
this brand has been on the market for 20 years.
the duration of these projects is 2 years.
In 2009, Kusainov headed the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
7 people were employed in the village.
Over 22 years, 636 trade unions have been created.
the cost of investments in production is more than 970 000 000 tenge.
Now it is planned to expand 70 hectares to 100 hectares.
in addition, voter turnout exceeded 95%.
This year, enterprises-producers will be allocated 35 billion tenge from the state budget.
In 2009, the plant was opened as part of uiid mb.
The construction of a five-story residential building, begun in August 2014, should be completed this year, "the report said.
89 live fighters already.
in total, 700 people work in economic cooperation.
25 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for microcredit in 2014.
During its construction, 140 jobs were created, "he said.
annually they harvest 300 thousand cubic meters of wood. every year they harvest about 300 thousand cubic meters of wood .
it was adopted in a republican referendum in 1995.
At the opening of the plant, the staff structure was 50 people.
5 countries and 5 international organizations have observer status.
244 facilities are subject to privatization for communal needs.
We support 5 people's reforms proposed by the President of Kazakhstan. we fully support the initiative of the president to implement 5 reforms which have special importance .
According to him, the total cost of projects is 190 billion tenge.
about a thousand illegal legal acts were canceled.
36 years remain before the historical date.
To date, 538 works have been successfully selected.
The program approved 432 projects worth 75 billion tenge. as part of the program 432 projects worth more than 75 billion tenge were approved .
Anna Tikhonovna was born in 1924 in a seven-lake.
Also, 29 projects are being prepared.
trade between the two countries amounted to 170 million dollars.
To install 71 road signs will require 855 thousand tenge.
44 schools of Semipalatinsk region took part in competitions.	44 schools of semey region took part in the event .	4,28
At the request of me, I was invited to the army at the age of 17. i was 17 years old when i was drafted to the army .
police inspectors recorded 445 cases of silence violations.
On June 1, a gala concert of the Zhuldyzai festival will be held in the capital.
In 1941 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
For example, since 2000, we have been communicating with business and family.
It has been in operation since 2010.
productivity in manufacturing increased by 60%.
In the future, 35 jobs will be created here.
1,168,7 billion tenge is allocated in the national budget for these purposes.
142 km of them enter the territory of the Mangistau region.
51 issues were resolved locally.
the environmental month began on April 13 and will last until May 13.
A special project of the Mother's House was created in 2013.
382 people remain evacuated, "said R. imankulov.
According to the starting 39,568 million tenge, the sale price reached 40,447 million tenge.
In 2014, the parachute jump program was 100% completed.
500 billion tenge will be allocated from the National Fund for these purposes.
the work of mobilization groups will last until April 15 of this year.
We've studied the 100-step plan. we have carefully studied the plan - 100 steps .
There are 5 health centres in the country, excluding individual medical facilities.
this is 100% of the funds provided for under the program. they are 100 % of the funds provided by the program .
Kazakhstan has been a member of the organization since December 1995.
Under the Thermal Modeling program, 20 multi-storey residential buildings were repaired last year.
Last year, only 14 million tenge of flowers were planted in the city.
In 2015 there will be no impairment of tenge.	from this point of view , the state has clearly set the position concerning the rumors about devaluation in 2015 .	4,35
The implementation of the project provided 500 new jobs.	the project will create more than 500 new workplaces in aktogai district .	4,35
of which 77 kindergartens, 13 in the Tselinograd district.	among them 77 are kindergartens , 13 - in tselinograd area .	4,35
Of these, 92.5 billion tenge will be allocated in 2015, 52.5 billion tenge in 2016.	92.5 billion tenge in 2015 , 52.5 billion tenge in 2016 .	4,35
the total amount of allocated funds is 40 billion tenge.
In 2014, 387.8 million tenge was paid from the national budget for 49 farms.
28 workshops work for their processing.
The total cost of the project is 124 billion tenge, "said B. Sagintayev.
The company was created in 1998 by reconstructing the "main communication distance" mark.
Currently, the ensemble has 12 artists, "the report said.
12 thousand jobs were created in the construction industry of the country.
the implemented project will create 250 new jobs.
on the territory of the plant there are 3 main and 17 auxiliary workshops.
the capital is a new city, founded in 2001.
It is also planned to build 22 laboratories for new specialties.
Competitions for the Super Cup of Kazakhstan in football have been held since 1995.
The Assembly has 130 national representatives. 130 peoples and nations of kazakhstan are represented in the assembly .
To date, about 700 billion tenge has been invested.
In 1947, information appeared that he was alive.
The British Council has been operating in Kazakhstan since 1994.
65 polling stations will be opened in the representative offices of the Republic of Kazakhstan. and 65 voting stations will be opened at representations of kazakhstan in foreign states .
For 4 months of 2015 5.9 billion tenge was spent.
At polling station No. 89, voting ended. the voting at the polling station № 89 has been stopped .
To date, 19 courts operate in Kazakhstan. today there are 19 courts in kazakhstan .
This year, 4 more kindergartens and 7 schools will be built.
the cost of each premium is 100 thousand dollars. the equivalent of each prize is 100 thousand dollars .
The total cost of the project is 530 million tenge.
missionary work is carried out by 50 foreign missionaries.
422 people were saved, "he said.
Last year, 23 thousand jobs were created.
50 motorcycle drivers left for the central square of the city. on the central streets there were about 50 riders .
Thanks to the construction of the metro, 1350 new jobs were created.
The amount of the contract amounted to 73 million 600 thousand tenge.
In 2014, this figure amounted to 420 billion tenge.
Last year, 4 kindergartens were commissioned, including the first success of this year - kindergarten.
this year, my lecture activity turned 58 years old. this year , it 's 58 years of my lecture activities .
the number of trading enterprises in 2014 increased by 817 units.
According to the results of 2014 - 7.1%.
its area is 37 thousand square meters.
In Kazakhstan, 56 thousand people with eye diseases are registered.
On April 29, the inauguration of the head of state took place.
Since the opening, 14 international tournaments have been held here.
The commissioning of new facilities is planned for 2021.
the cost of one electric locomotive is about 7 million euros.
60 people receive 100 votes, this is 198 thousand tenge.
Within two days from May 21 to 22, 30 events are planned.
The agreement was signed in the capital on January 19, 2014.
Administrative fines worth more than 60 billion tenge were collected.
3591.2 million tenge is provided for 2015.
total investment is estimated at $143 million.
In Kazakhstan, 56 thousand people with eye diseases are registered.
the potential of the forest fund is 123 million.
since in two months 50 thousand cars were delivered to Kazakhstan from Russia.
however, the state in the current year should subsidize 30% of the project.
we have 13 joint projects. we have implemented 13 joint projects with kazakh business .
- Form 278/y "Register of outpatient patients."
today we have 14 departments of kha. today , we have created 14 departments of the apk .
In September 1943 he was called up to the front.
In June 1942 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
This collection will end on February 8 of this year.
Total investment in the project will amount to 3,602 million tenge.
15 out of 100 citizens live in the city of Aktobe.
10 such colleges are defined for the holding. there are 10 colleges that have been defined for the holding , this year we plan to start working with them .
The action started on March 11 in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.
Another 6 reanimobiles were seized at the expense of the republican budget.
A positive construction indicator is observed in 11 regions of Kazakhstan.
quality drinking water is provided to 4 thousand people.
The two-story building is designed for 280 children. the two-story building is designed for 280 children .
Last year, the team produced 329 tons of silver.
60% of innovative products are exported.
The company employs more than 2 thousand Kazakhstanis.
According to Bozhko, the bilateral agreement consists of 21 articles.
Last year, 32 yards were landscaped in this area.
350 personnel drivers are involved in the formation.
Permanent representatives of 26 States are registered with the organization.
During the construction, 70 villagers were employed.
In 2014, 6.7 billion were allocated for this project. Tenge.
winners will receive a reward of 1 million tenge.
the annual economic effect is 44 million tenge.
3 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes.
he is the pride of military unit 41433.
prizes will be played on June 5, 2015.
housing and land distribution - 22 per cent.
School No. 98 in the village was built in 1967.
There is positive dynamics in 12 regions of Kazakhstan.
17 targets and 169 targets.
currently produces 100 million products.
600 families in the region will be covered by shares.
About 2 thousand delegates took part in it.
Shopping and entertainment center "Friendship Plaza" was opened in 2014.
It is very important that 90% of children attend kindergartens.
This industry produced 109% of its products.
rent one square meter 58 tenge.
thus, demand was 27% higher than supply.
To date, 240 war veterans live in the region.
this year, 20 projects will be introduced in special economic zones. this year 20 projects will be introduced in the special economic zones .
about 200 new jobs were created at the enterprise.
311 educational organizations underwent repairs worth 3.5 billion tenge.	thus , 311 educational organizations repaired .	4,63
PhD students were 401.	ph.d number is equal 401 people .	4,63
On August 19, 2003, we arrived in Iraq.
the time of the mechanized parade takes 16 minutes.
To date, 37 projects worth 44 billion tenge have been approved.
In 2014, 20.3 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes.
the number of people employed in it is 300.
It is worth noting that 80 people work in production.
in the piggy bank of the Kazakh team 7 medals.
then he was only a 19-year-old boy, the veteran recalls.
It is worth noting that a total of 11,126 fellowships were established in 1994-2014.
Applications submitted by 23 financial institutions.
a total of 571 meetings will be held during the reporting period.
This project is designed until June 30, 2017.
by the way, kusain habilgazam is 63 years old.
kmk oil LLP allocated 800 thousand tenge for these purposes.
In 2014, the strength of the Kazakh economy significantly strengthened. in 2014 a substantial margin of safety of kazakhstan 's economy was created .
In 2015, the national company will train volunteer supervisors for 300-500 people.
In 2015, the regional budget amounted to 328.2 billion tenge.
Kostanay enterprises received 50 proposals.
To date, 120 workers work here.
30 memoranda totaling 18 billion tenge were concluded.
only 109 heads of cavalry.
Another 273 people were trained in the basics of entrepreneurship.
8 . Stepnogorsk sulfuric acid plant
an additional 275 inert materials were supplied.
In 1942 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
100 local citizens work at the plant.
In 1941 he was called up for service in the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army.
21 Crimean professors worked in it.
In total, there are 167 veterans in Petropavlovsk.
each group has 30 participants.
this year he turned 90 years old.
Since 2012 - akim of Karaganda region.
The championship was held by the Swiss system in 9 rounds.
The youngest participant is 14 years old.
25 assignments in each discipline.
the college will train personnel in 12 specialties.
May 7 in Kazakhstan is the day of creation of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
In addition, last year 3 new poultry farms were commissioned.
In this area, I worked for 31 years.
683 million tenge of investment subsidies will be allocated for this.
The agreement was signed on October 6, 2009.
clothing of one person is 68 thousand tenge.
20% of Kazakhstan's economy is in Almaty.
for this, the investor spent 1 billion tenge.
every year we have 800 people at the reception. every year we have 800 graduates .
The construction of a perinatal center with 200 seats has been completed. The construction of a perinatal center with 200 seats has been finished.
agrarians of the region produced products worth 283 billion tenge.
2014 was a very successful year for the federation.
overhaul of 10 health facilities was carried out, seismic capacity of seven was strengthened.
In 2013, we set up a dry cargo company.
The National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan opened in 2014.
32 thousand jobs were created with their help.
This year it is planned to begin construction of 27 facilities.
In 2016, we implement 11 projects.
We are amending 24 laws and codes.
Karaganda region allocated 1 billion tenge.
Last year, 93 thousand were produced. Products.
The completion date is June 2015.
Recall that Kazakhstan joined this agreement in 1992.
Kazakhstan has achieved unprecedented success in 20 years. kazakhstan has reached great success over 20 years .
I managed to visit 9 polling stations. i was able to visit 9 polling stations .
We studied the needs of young people in 8 regions of the country. we studied the needs of young people in 8 regions of the country .
The cost of the project is $198 million. the project will cost 198 million dollars .
one of the projects is worth 100 million tenge.
Today, military attachés from 41 countries are registered in Kazakhstan.
110 volunteers is our heart.
400 people will be employed for permanent work.
I went around 9 polling stations. i was able to visit 9 polling stations .
This exercise has been held since 2003.
fertility increased by 6%. the birth rate of the population has increased by 6 % .
the Kazakh content of the enterprise is 70-85%.
He lived to be 29.
we divided them into 6 sections.
60 jobs will be created during construction.
750 million tenge has been spent since the beginning of this year.
during construction, 20 jobs were created.
this is a large exhibition, in which representatives of 147 countries of the world take part.
we have about 150 people. we employ about 150 people .
we plan to reconstruct another 10 markets.
investment volume - KZT2,100 mln.
This year, work is underway on 9 sites of 250 km.
4) improvement of the nural mine of Kyzylorda region.
Large-scale construction began in the spring of 2014.
sheet size 156 x 144 mm.
this year he turns 90 years old.
the test duration was 2 hours 30 minutes.
however, in 2012	 in this regard , we appreciate the decision of venezuela to open its diplomatic mission in kazakhstan in 2012 .
Hungary's escort to Kazakhstan amounted to 145%.
in total, 351 people took part in the program.
this is the homeland of 100 ethnic groups of Kazakhstan.
the poultry farm produces 15 million eggs.
72 million tenge was allocated for the repair of the building. more than 72 million tenge was allocated on the renovation of the building .
47% of the country's population lives in rural areas. almost 47 % of the population lives in the villages .
The cost of the plan will be 10 billion tenge.
In 2014, 5 schools were commissioned.
the area of ​ ​ the new greenhouse is 6 hectares.
the average subsidy amounted to 4021 tenge.
250 new jobs have been created here.
at our site 350 people, these are the patients here, the force of additional care. there are 350 patients .
Specialists examined 228,899 residents.
the main festive events will be held on May 9.
3 . Aktobe rail beam factory.
This year, 929 students will graduate from the university.
It is planned to develop 23 innovative programs per year.
The project is planned to be completed in 2019.
The project is planned to be fully completed in 2016.
In total, it presents 195 research projects from Kazakhstan, 6 of which are students of the Akmola region.
A total of 398 people were covered in 2014.
In 2014, 13 bike rides took place in the city.
8 companies registered in 2014.
the total cost of the project is 400 million tenge.
In total, 15 thousand young people will be called up for urgent military service.
20 permanent jobs will be created.
11 . Attention Textiles LLP.
the cost of the project is $70 million.
the planned investment volume is $950 million.
currently it consists of 350 people.
Note that the volume of investments in the project is 65 million euros.
of these, 22 are senior positions.
about 2290 jobs were created at enterprises.
37 entrepreneurs were trained.
now Ekaterina Semenovna is 94 years old.
flight duration - 7 hours.
The next universiade will be held in 2017.
the factory consists of 48 cells of a bird.
another 11 people are safe.
investment increased by 13%.
On February 5, a capsule will be laid for the construction of the plant.
In 1979, Mikhailov retired.
260 people work at the enterprise.
72 guarantees of the fund were issued for 2.7 billion.
The company employed 119 people.
100 people work in the cooperative.
We've lived together for 19 years.
1909 proposals and comments were made.
now the object is 90% ready.
40% of them are headed by women.
thousands of cows.
6 teams were awarded diplomas.
The company employs 250 people.
There were a total of 4 presidential candidates.
It is planned to open another 5 schools.
In 1941 he graduated from high school.
it unites 28 professors of departments.
The company employs 175 people.
design capacity of 10,000 pieces per year.
100 students of grades 8-10 took part in the competitions.
The company has created 25 jobs.
design capacity of 10,000 pieces per year.
project capacity 600 tons of cucumbers per year.
During the construction, 140 jobs were created.
the budget received 363 million tenge.
the procession cost 86 million tenge.
their monthly salary is 112 thousand tenge.
20% of the country's economy is in Almaty.
annual income is 874 million tenge.
300 new workplaces were created.
our growth will be $200 million.
in our project we label 20 houses.
923.1 million tenge is planned for 2015.
this project is 350 million tenge. the project 's cost is 350 million tenge .
today this budget has reached 32 billion tenge.
Competitions will last 10 days. the competition will be held within 10 days .
production volume 8 tons per year.
The shipment is 100% complete.
Thus, out of 125 enterprises of the city, 1,116 vacancies were presented.
Also installed 37 banners.
398 million tenge was allocated for these purposes.
there are 441 in the country.
intosai was founded in 1953.
face value of the stamp is 100 tenge.
80 people are involved in the construction.
total cost of the project is 162 million tenge.
207 rural areas covered 203.
I was invited to war at 18. i was called when i was 18 years old .
In 1947 he returned from the army. in 1947 , i was demobilized .
Production created 300 new jobs.
The project seats 200 people.
This year there were 423 call centers.
applications are accepted until March 15.
On May 7, a military parade will be held in the capital.
360 km of roads were repaired.
education - 7%.
Currently, 275 people work in the institution.
I brought 28 paintings with me. i brought 28 pictures .
500 criminal cases have been instituted.
376 veterans will be provided in this area.
During the construction, 140 places were created.
The exhibition will last 10 days.
40 works were presented at the exhibition.
the competition consists of 2 sections.
I fought in 1944. i fought in 1944 .
Assistance is provided to 361 veterans.
100 jobs have been created.
circulation of stamps 5100 marks.
109 applications are under consideration.
13 inefficient boiler houses were closed.
650 jobs have been created.
To date, 893 people have been evacuated.
It is planned to finance 160 projects.
48% of those born are girls.
In November last year, 13 new jobs were created at the introduced power plant.
It will last from 2012 to 2018.
problems - 18%.
project cost 1 billion tenge.
10 . textile production.
The expedition will begin on December 25th.
worth 15 billion tenge.
in the assembly of the region 115 people.
jobs 173.
3,596 excursions were conducted.
in West Kazakhstan region in 2016.
2 months.
2 . including:
100 specific steps
